Roots party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah, 61, stepped into the presidential race by announcing radical measures his government plans to implement once he clinches the presidency. Wajackoyah and his running mate, 35-year-old Justina Wangui Wamae,  were among the four who were cleared by IEBC to contest for the top seat. He will battle it out with Deputy President William Ruto (UDA), Raila Odinga (Azimio) and David Mwaure Waihiga of the Agano Party for the seat. His promises: Bhang: He said he will legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes in order to generate revenue. In an interview on Citizen TV, Wajackoyah argued that if Kenyans are allowed to grow bhang for export, that would likely increase money circulation in the economy, claiming that a sack can be sold for $3.2 million. "The solution for the national debt is growing marijuana which will enable this country to clear all the outstanding debt," he said. He said the revenue collected will enable the country to pay its outstanding debts. Death penalty: Wajackoyah stated clearly that there will be no corruption in his government and those found culpable will face harsh penalties to serve as an example to others. "There will be zero tolerance for corruption and those found guilty will be hanged by the hemp fiber." He said the measures will enable him to turn around the country's economic fortune and eradicate corruption. Snake farming: He said he will venture into snake farming to generate more revenue for the country. He noted that toxins extracted from farmed poisonous snakes are worth a fortune in the anti-venom market and can drive Kenya's economy. "We are introducing snake farming in the country so that we can extract snake poison for the purposes of medication. A lot of people are bitten by snakes in this country and you have to wait for doses from outside the country through pharmaceutical cooperation," Wajackoyah said. "We have so many snake eaters like the Chinese. One of the ways we are going to offset the Chinese debt is by extracting the poison from the snakes and giving the Chinese the meat to eat and telling them to offset the debt." Constitution: Wajackoyah said he will suspend the Kenyan Constitution for six months and will rule with an iron fist if elected. "We will suspend the constitution because it has unnecessary rules and regulations," he said. Relocating capital: The presidential candidate further said he will relocate the capital city  from Nairobi to North Eastern. He said the ideality of moving the capital to say, Isiolo will open up the northern frontiers as the administrative capital, freeing Nairobi to be an industrial hub. The presidential candidate is one of the four who IEBC gave a nod to vie for the top seat in the August 9 polls. Wajackoyah and his running mate will be releasing his manifesto on July 2.