Vihiga Senator George Khaniri was on Saturday cleared by the IEBC to contest for the gubernatorial seat in the forthcoming General Election. The UDP party candidate is seeking to unseat incumbent Governor Wilber Ottichilo through the Azimio la Umoja ticket. The race has attracted four candidates including former Governor Moses Akaranga, Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and former Vihiga County secretary Francis Ominde. Former National Assembly speaker Kenneth Marende who was also eyeing the same seat pulled out after Azimo presidential candidate Raila Odinga promised him the Speaker's post should he win the August polls. Khaniri's clearance, however, came after a long standoff with IEBC officials over his running mate's party. His running mate Gerald Khamoya is in KANU. The duo had a rough time convincing returning officer Peter Tiyo that they all belong to the Azimio coalition. "But if you are under one coalition you must have one certificate from the coalition and not UDP and KANU," Tiyo said. "We are under one coalition of Azimio la umoja Kenya One Coalition. We represent one presidential candidate but on other seats parties are allowed to fill candidates," Khaniri responded. He explained that parties under the Azimio camp are allowed to pick running mates from affiliate parties. The stalemate was resolved after long consultations from both sides. Khaniri left without addressing the Media at the IEBC center in Chavakali. Other candidates who have been cleared include former Governor Moses Akaranga and former Vihiga county secretary Francis Ominde. "Am going to solve all problems at the county, salary delays, service delivery among other issues that have been disturbing our people here," Akaranga said. Akaranga will be seeking the governor's seat on the Progressive Party of Kenya ticket (PPK). He served for one term after the 2013 elections but lost to Ottichilo in the 2017 polls. Ominde, who is seeking the same seat via FPK ticket said his aim is to teach people and show the electorate what devolution is all about. Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi who was also seeking to unseat his boss via the Equitable Party hit a snag after the Registrar of Political Parties barred the party from presenting candidates in the August polls. The Registrar said the party had not lasted for the six months required by law before fronting aspirants for an election. Saisi dismissed rumours that he was positioning to deputise Akaranga.