The Commission for University Education has once again revoked Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja's degree. In a letter to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, CUE said by the conclusion of investigations into the authenticity of the degree issued by Team University in Uganda, the governor aspirant had not submitted any proof. "Based on these findings  and in compliance with the ongoing provisions of of sections of The Universities Act, 2012, Part XI of The Universities Regulations 2014, The Universities Standards and Guidelines, 2014, and the Standards for recognition and Equation of qualifications and granted the disclaimer in the certificate of recognition issued, the Commission has come to the m inescapable decision to that the purported degree certificate of Bachelor of Science in Management (External) is ineligible for recognition," the letter states. This decision has been communicated to Sakaja Johnson Arthur and he has the right to appeal. "The Commission hereby notifies you that recognition of the qualification of the purported Bachelor of Science in Management (External) degree from Team University, issued to one Sakaja Johnson Arthur, which was presented to your good office in compliance to the provisions of section 22(2) of the Elections Act and Regulation 47 of the Election (General) Regulations, 2012 is revoked," the letter seen by the Star reads. According to CUE, at the close of the investigation, they had not received any evidence from Team’s University or Sakaja himself of pursuing a degree. “Failure to submit even the most basic evidence of study and the process of earning a degree inevitably renders the degree certificate submitted insufficient to prove that Sakaja studied either physically or through distance learning and that he holds an academic degree.” IEBC's Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC) had cleared Sakaja to contest for the governor seat on June 19, 2022. The senator got another reprieve on June 22 after the Commission for University Education withdrew a letter that had revoked the degree. CUE had written to Sakaja to provide the transcripts, examinations schedules, graduation booklet that has his name on it and receipts for; application fee, tuition fees, graduation and convocation. Sakaja failed to appear before Commission, claiming that he only heard CUE's invite through the local media streams. “I read it in the media. I can’t go there without an official invitation,” he said.