Sabaot elders have called for rotational leadership in Saboti ward to reduce wrangles and give a sense of belonging to all communities in the area. Sabaot elders chairman Reverend Francis Kiboi said they had resolved to put all communities living in the county on the path of peace and development through barazas. "We are gathered here today to address the issue of inequalities in matters of county assembly representation among communities in Saboti ward," he said. Several communities live in the ward. They include Bukusu, Kikuyu, Teso, Sabaot, Maragoli, among others. "We must all stand to be counted as peacemakers for us to see the blessings of God. We are also asking the next Parliament to have a rotational leadership motion passed for the general good of all Kenyans," Kiboi said. He asked residents to only vote for credible leaders and not the corrupt. Edward Kalamu said every community in the area has people capable of taking leadership positions at all levels. Elder Moses Chebowoo said rotational leadership will help boost inclusiveness, peace, unity and harmony, which he said are essential prerequisites to the development of society. They were speaking at Gituamba PEFA Church during a meeting to drum up support for Leonard Moss, who is running for Saboti ward seat. “Moss is a clean, intelligent and hard-working young man. This is the reason we as elders are here today," he said. Kitiyo Chemwowo urged Kenyans to borrow a leaf from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s advice to have all communities given a chance to take the leadership mantle. "I think what President Kenyatta said in Vihiga sometime last year  should be taken seriously. He said inclusivity, peace, harmony, love for each other and unity are essential ingredients for economic growth," he said. The elders praised the Mabanga Peace Accord, which they said had guaranteed peace and unity in Trans Nzoia and neighbouring Bungoma. They said if other communities in Kenya had adopted the approach then the country would have realised relative peace and tranquillity. The accord says that major communities should share elective positions to ensure fair representation and reduce hostilities. It also says that elders shall work to promote equity, inclusivity and fairness in distribution and sharing of resources, opportunities and other benefits. It further says that county government positions shall be shared equitably and in an inclusive manner among communities in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia. Edited by A.N