UDA presidential candidate William Ruto has been cleared to contest in the August polls by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati made the announcement on Saturday at the Bomas of Kenya after Ruto and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua submitted their documents to the commission. "The application of William Ruto and running mate to participate in the August presidential election is approved. I will now present you with a certificate of registration," Chebukati said amid cheers from his supporters and Kenya Kwanza leaders who accompanied him to Bomas. DP William Ruto thanked the IEBC for their role in ensuring Kenyans have credible elections and urged them to remain fair while executing their mandate. "I'm delighted to receive the certificate that will allow me and my deputy to participate in the August polls. Mr Chairman, we're committed to the code of conduct we have signed... We are confident that you are up to the task and we will work with you diligently," he said. To the media outlets, the DP said it is time they are fair and balanced when covering political campaigns ahead of the polls. "It is the most decent thing to do. We have raised these concerns. We also urge you (IEBC) that you treat all the candidates in this race equally," he said. "We will work with all Kenyans in this election," he said and urged Kenyans to remain peaceful during the electioneering period. Ruto was accompanied by Kenya Kwanza leaders including; ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Tharaka Nith Senator Kindiki Kithure, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, UDA secretary-general Veronica Maina, among leaders. After presenting his papers, Ruto will storm the city in a whirlwind tour culminating in a major rally at the historic Kamukunji grounds in Kamukunji Constituency. He will be drumming up support for his candidature as well as campaign for his Kenya Kwanza candidates during the tour of the city. Ruto's caravan will make at least seven stopovers where he will sell his bottom-up economic model. He will start from South C, South B, Mukuru, City Stadium, Gikomba, Majengo and finally Kamukunji.