Two aspirants for the Nyali MP seat have vowed to unseat the incumbent Mohammed Ali. Said Abdhalla alias Saido of ODM and Yassir Noor of Jubilee, both under the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition, have hit the ground running after they were cleared to vie by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Monday. Ali, who was elected as an independent candidate in 2017, is now seeking re-election on a UDA ticket. Speaking at the Kongowea market on Tuesday, Saido said the current Nyali leadership has failed. “In the last five years we have seen the MP busy insulting the governor Hassan Joho, making it difficult to work with him,” Saido said. He pleaded with the Kongowea market traders to vote for him as Nyali MP and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir as the second Mombasa governor under the ODM party. Saido said he will ensure there is coordination between the office of the governor and that of the area MP in addressing challenges affecting locals. “You have been facing these problems for the last ten years because of electing an MP belonging to a different party from that of the governor,” he said. He also promised to work closely with the elected governor to address the issue of harassment of traders by county inspectorate officers. “I also understand that the market is congested and this is a health risk that can lead to disease breakouts. My assurance to you is that I will push the governor to carry out an expansion project of the market,” he said. In a separate event within Nyali, Noor said residents are tired of politics of prejudice and lies. “People now want change,” he said. Noor also called on all those cleared to vie for the seat to conduct peaceful campaigns. “Don’t go out there selling tribalism or dividing Nyali people along religious lines. Kenya belongs to all of us,” he said. In 2013, Noor vied through President Uhuru Kenyatta’s party The National Alliance (TNA) but lost to Hezron Awiti of Wiper. Saido, who is Joho’s cousin, contested in the 2017 elections on an ODM ticket and lost to Ali. The seat has attracted a total of 16 candidates.