Former Kitui Governor Julius Malombe got a setback on Friday after the High Court nullified his governor nomination certificate. The certificate was issued to him by the Wiper. Justice Christine Meoli overturned the decision by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal and Wiper's internal dispute resolution tribunal The judge ruled that the nomination certificate for Malombe was issued unlawfully and in breach of the law. Meoli has directed Wiper to carry out fresh nomination in the next 72 hours. Malombe was scheduled to present his nomination papers to the Kitui county IEBC retuning officer Macharia Gichichi on Monday. Former Kitui East MP Kiema Kilonzo moved to court challenging the decision by Wiper to award a direct nomination to Malombe. He appealed the decision of the PPDT that upheld Malombe was validly nominated. “The honourable tribunal erred in law and fact in holding that Wiper had initially not made a decision to use a direct nomination method in nominating its candidate for the position of governor, Kitui county,” the court papers read. He also argues that the tribunal erred by holding that use of opinion polls satisfied the provisions of section 38 G of the Political Parties Act in conducting nominations by way of an indirect party nomination. “The tribunal erred in holding that Wiper had communicated to its members and the public that it was to conduct nomination by way of both direct and indirect nomination methods,” he said. News of the ruling has generated mixed reaction in Kitui. The chairman of Mwingi professionals Campbell Munyambu said the court have been careful not to offend Malombe's supporters. "Yes, the court has spoken but I want  to assure  you Malombe will win the nomination be it via delegates or Universal suffrage,"  Munyambu said. He said majority of Kitui people were keen at re-electing Malombe as  their governor but Kiema's agenda is to frustrate him through court cases. "Wiper listened to opinion polls where the majority backed Mlaombe, making  him  the most popular candidate for the Kitui governor seat," Munyambu said. But Chrispus Ileli who was Governor Charity Ngilu's chief of staff, said justice had been served through Meoli's ruling. "Both Wiper and Malombe have no option but to ensure that nomination for candidates are held as directed by court," Ileli said on phone.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)