When it comes to romantic relationships, the phrase 'mi casa su casa' applies 100 per cent. As a man, it is no longer about 'I' but about 'We' as what's mine becomes hers. Sometimes, this entails sharing some of the things that may have been sacred and personal. For most men, a car is a safe space — a sort of man cave — where they can be themselves as much as possible. It is a humble abode, where the man can play out his childhood fantasy of being a rally driver. The car is also where he goes to emotionally unwind after a long day or mull over a problem. So, it is quite a huge decision to share your car with your significant other, considering the financial, psychological and physical implications involved. It means you may not have as much time to spend with your prized possession as you would before. There's no more safe space to go to and think things over without the distraction of people bellowing in your ear. There's also the possibility that your partner may not be the most careful driver around or even knowledgeable on what to do in case of a mechanical problem. However, sharing your car with bae may also be beneficial in the long run. First, it spares you from the extra costs associated with her getting her own car, including fuel, parking fees and mechanical maintenance. Sharing your vehicle with her may also offer you the chance to engage in other healthy activities, such as biking, trekking or jogging. One of the challenges facing healthy living among Nairobians, and most urbanites, is the overreliance on mobile transport systems. Courtesy of the nduthi gangs and taxi hailing apps, many people prefer this form of transport even when going to a nearby location. In your case, such shorts trips would be better spent walking, cycling or jogging. Whether or not she is a bad driver, sharing the car with her may grant you the chance to influence her driving habits positively. Rather than be her chauffeur for most of the time, give her the chance to get behind the wheel from time to time. From a psychological perspective, this shows concern for her and trust in her ability to improve on her driving. Consequently, allowing her to take the wheel regularly may tighten the chords of your relationship as you spend a lot of time together on the road. Did I just say that a car is a safe space for most men? Allowing her into your man cave is indeed a sign that you value bae enough to introduce her to your cherished valuable. What better way, then, to take your relationship to the next level than by giving her the keys to your heartthrob... Your car.