The government has asked Kwale residents to be on the lookout for people who are moving door-to-door at night to commit crimes under the pretext of campaigning. Matuga assistant county commissioner Timothy Omoit warned residents, saying night political campaigns are not allowed and that they should be keen on whom they allow into their houses at night. Omoit said criminals might take advantage of the ongoing political campaigns to rape and steal. "During these campaigns let's be extra careful, don't allow strangers in your homes," he said. Already some cases have been reported, with some residents complaining of being robbed by groups of people. The gang knocks on the door impersonating campaigners of certain politicians only to commit crimes. Often during the electioneering period especially when campaigns enter homestretch,  aspirants engage in   door-to-door visits to persuade voters. Omoit said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and security forbid late night campaigns. He warned the politicians against violating the law and endangering the lives of residents. The commissioner said those who will be found breaking the campaigning rules will be arrested and prosecuted. "There will be a severe punishment for the lawbreakers and we are watching them," he said. The commissioner spoke during a tree planting exercise at Kwale male GK prison in Matuga subcounty. Omoit urged residents to report any cases of insecurity for law to take its course. He also advised residents to remain vigilant and observe peace before, during and after the elections. Omoiti cautioned youth against being misused by politicians to cause chaos. In a separate event, Kwale county commission Gideon Oyagi also warned politicians against hate speech. Oyagi spoke last week in Lunga-Lunga while chairing the inauguration ceremony of three area assistant chiefs. He said any politician spearheading division shall face  the law. Oyagi said politicians must tolerate one another and ensure peaceful campaigns. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya called on residents to remain united no matter the outcome of the election. He asked candidates to shun tribal politics and sell their agendas, not insults and violence. The governor said residents should resist being divided along tribal lines and observe peaceful coexistence. Meanwhile, IEBC has cleared four gubernatorial candidates. Former Transport minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere and former Agriculture PS Hamadi Iddi Boga were cleared on Saturday. Fatuma Achani and Gereza Dena on the other hand presented their papers and were cleared on Sunday. Two others Sammy Ruwa and Lung'anzi Chai Mangale will know their fate on Monday. By Saturday about nine candidates had been cleared to vie for Senate seat in the region. They are Antony Yama, Mudzo Dzili, Isa Boy, William Ndeti, Hezron Obadia, Mwanasha Suleiman, Salim Mwadumbo, Prisca Oyuga, and Nuru Hassan.    Edited by SKanyara