The newly elected AFC Leopards office has pledged to steer the club to unprecedented heights beginning next season. Speaking days after they got a nod from the club's supporters to serve for the next three years, Dan Shikanda (chairman), Gilbert Andugu (secretary-general) and Oliver Napali (treasurer) all expressed hope for a brighter future at the Den. Shikanda asked those given the fresh mandate to serve in office as well as their competitors to put their differences aside and forge ahead as unity of purpose to revive the fortunes of the club. “Let us join hands, work together and ensure that AFC Leopards regains its lost glory,” Shikanda said. “I believe that our great Club, AFC Leopards won on this day. Your vote was a vote for the future. A bright future. Your overwhelming support will come in handy as I take over this new responsibility,” Shikanda said. “My hearty appreciation to my campaign team for the great teamwork, sleepless nights and never ending support you gave to ensure that we emerged victorious in the polls.” On his part, Andugu extolled his competitors for accepting defeat honourably. “Special thanks to my competitors Robert Situma and Tonny Omusina for allowing democracy to carry the day. You have shown the true spirit of being an Ingwe fan as well as trusting in our Club structures.” “I give thanks to the independent election organisers Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD) for conducting a fair and credible election allowing for the Club’s ethos to be felt across Kenya and the world at large.” “I also congratulate Dr Dan Shikanda and Oliver Napali for being elected to the national executive council (NEC) as Chairperson and treasurer respectively. Our combined efforts are what will make us achieve the success and trophy-laden term for the fans.” While thanking the club for entrusting him with the honour of serving as Treasurer, Napali promised financial sustainability and stability at the club. “I’m sure, the future looks bright. Our efforts combined will usher a new era at the den,” he said. “The task ahead can only be achieved if we hold each other's hand and strive towards greatness.” “I believe that our great Club, AFC Leopards won on this day. Your vote was a vote for the future. A bright future. Your overwhelming support will come in handy as I take over this new responsibility.” “Our combined efforts are what will make us achieve the  success and trophy-laden term for the fans.” During the elections held at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Sunday, Shikanda retained his seat after flooring his sole competitor, Robert Namai in a hotly contested election at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Sunday. Shikanda garnered 429 votes against Namai's 282. Gilbert Andugu bagged 433 votes to secure the secretary-general's seat after beating Robert Omusawa and Tonny Omusina who got 224 and 49 votes respectively. Oliver Napali romped into the Treasurer's office unopposed given he is the only one who had expressed interest in the position. 