Investigations into the stabbing and killing of a woman in Nanyuki by a British soldier in 2012 have not progressed, a report by London-based newspaper, The Sunday Times, has shown. The suspect in the case has yet to be arrested or questioned by the authorities. Agnes Wanjiru, 21, was last seen entertaining a British soldier based in Nanyuki town before going missing for three months. Her decomposing body bearing multiple stab wounds was found in a septic tank of a social joint they were last seen in. Wanjiru was a mother of a few months old baby. In October last year, a UK-based news outlet reported that the soldier, allegedly involved in her murder, and his friends owned up and made fun of the incident on social media. In November last year, Kenyan police announced it had reopened a probe into the murder. But despite the promise by the police in Nairobi and military officials in London to expedite the probe, nothing seems to have happened. Investigators have not spoken to witnesses. “There has also not been an investigation into eight servicemen - including Soldier X - 'laughing and joking on Facebook' about the mother-of-one's death,” the paper reported. Wanjiru’s family members have in the past dismissed allegations that she was a sex worker. According to the news report, members of Soldier X’s regiment say the identity of the suspect is “an open secret.” In fact, five of the members have positively identified the officer, giving the name to the newspaper. One other soldier, identified in the story as soldier Y, the report shows, claimed the suspect in the case even showed him Wanjiru’s body after killing her. He is said to have told Lancashire police as much in October last year. London’s Ministry of Defence had indicated last year that it would interview Soldier Y for the Kenyan authorities, but last week could not say whether this had taken place. The report also shows that yet another solider who was present on that night told the paper that, “If I was conducting any investigations into a crime of this magnitude, these eight people [known to be there on the night] would be my priority.” The Sunday Times also reported that it tried to access the residence of the suspect last week but he is reported to have yelled at them, "Go away, go away, mate, go away". Kenyan police have interviewed security guard Moses Moiyare, 45, from Nandugoro, Laikipia county. He said at 3am on the night Wanjiru was killed he saw three soldiers in an 'extreme hurry to leave'.