The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Busia branch) has accused the county of investing limited resources in the development of the education sector. Busia Knut branch secretary Justine Majale said on Thursday the neglect of the growth of the education sector by the county is a ticking time bomb. A society full of uneducated people is an insecure society, Majale said. Education, Majale said, is a key pillar in the development of any society. “The challenges that teachers experience in Busia are many,” he said. “The people in Busia county mandated to address the plight of teachers do not listen to Knut teachers. We have many challenges to address yet those expected to listen to us have continued to pay a deaf ear.” The county government has the responsibility of developing specific infrastructure in schools. It also plays a primary role in the provision of bursaries to pupils and students as well as train, employ and pay Early Childhood Development Education teachers. Majale was speaking to the press in Busia town after Busia Knut officials met Busia governor aspirant Paul Otuoma. The union said representatives of teachers in Knut will not tire in their quest to champion for the rights of teachers, particularly ECDE instructors who are employed by the county. Majale was accompanied by Knut (Busia branch) secretary Patrick Mulamba, Knut (Teso branch) secretary Olakacuna Omuse and Knut (Teso branch) chairman Olunga Ekweny. Olakacuna asked teachers in the county to maintain peace as the country moves towards the August 9 polls. He said politicians should be at the forefront in preaching peace and stop spreading division among Kenyans. “Busia will remain our county and we will still need one another after the election,” he said. Olunga decried the poor infrastructure in many school in the county. “Many roads that lead to most schools in Busia are poor. This has hampered the travelling of some teachers to and from their respective schools,” Olunga said. “The county should play its role in ensuring some of these roads are well maintained to ease movement of both teachers and students.” The Knut officials unanimously agreed to back Otuoma in his quest to become Busia county's second governor. They expressed confidence that the former Funyula MP, after becoming governor, will transform the education sector. Otuoma said, in his administration, teachers under the county will enjoy a friendly working environment. He said his administration will fairly distribute teacher opportunities in the seven subcounties of Teso North, Teso South, Nambale, Butula, Matayos, Samia and Bunyala.  (edited by Amol Awuor)