Marsabit woman representative candidate Nasra Ibrahim Ibren has promised to ensure peace prevails among the warring communities, if elected. She called on women to promote peace since they are most affected by violence. The UDM candidate spoke on Sunday while meeting minority communities in Saku constituency. Ibren said women are the pillar of the family and can influence peace. "When a women is empowered, the whole society is empowered. Let us not be influenced by politicians to turn on each other or use children to engage in acts of violence," she said The candidate promised residents of development and fair and just representation, if elected. Ibren said she will ensure equitable distribution of resources with the women, youths and person living with disabilities as priorities. She further promised to turn the obstacles facing residents into opportunities by focusing on income generating activities that would have a positive impact. The candidate also promised good governance and zero tolerance to corruption in the implementation of National Government Affirmative Action fund. She promised to advocate for the development of policies that will be beneficial to women and youth and break the cycle of poverty and inequality. Ibren said the policies will create wider arrays of opportunities for women and youth by ensuring that development is inclusive and sustainable. She said when a woman is empowered economically, they invest in their families and community, spurring economic growth and creating more stable societies. The candidate said women empowerment is critical in ensuring development and attaining economic self-reliance. She further promised to address the challenges women face in comprehensive and meaningful ways. Ibren said she would continue to empower women, youth and people living with disabilities through funding, infrastructure development and legislation. The candidate promised a robust and quality representation in the House with her wealth of experienced, gained when she was first elected in 2013. She said she will use her influence to lobby and attract more development to her people. The former women representative also promised to sponsor at least 100 students from poor backgrounds in their secondary education and issue bursaries from the NGAAF kitty. She condemned drug abuse among the youth promising to partners with different organisations for awareness. The candidate asked residents to support her bid and vote for her as she will take care of their interests. She said residents should vote wisely as they risk regretting their decision soon after the polls, if they elect the wrong candidate. Ibren said voters should vet what each candidate has for them and choose leaders in love with justice and humanity. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)