ODM national chairman John Mbadi has said he won't succumb to pressure from critics demanding he resign after he objected to calls for six-piece voting for the party. He has been at loggerheads with some officials and politicians from Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori for not supporting the six-piece voting pattern. Azimio–One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga, who is also ODM leader, comes from Nyanza. ODM is among the political parties in Azimio coalition. Mbadi, who is in Raila’s Nyanza campaign steering committee, said they cannot discriminate against other Azimio affiliate parties even though ODM is the dominant party in the region. He said all political parties in the Azimio-one Kenya Alliance deserve equal rights and respect to make Raila get votes. “We’re past the era of the six-piece voting pattern in Nyanza. Azimio is a coalition that needs everybody on board, hence we can’t discriminate against other parties,” Mbadi said. Speaking on Saturday at Sindo market in his constituency, Mbadi urged ODM candidates in Nyanza to change their campaign strategies and woo residents to vote for them in the August 9 elections. He said many residents have complained that some politicians take advantage of ODM's popularity in the region and underperform after they get elected. “I will neither resign nor get intimidated by people who don’t see the importance of having large voter turnout in Nyanza. People become myopic when they want to serve their own selfish interests,” Mbadi said. Last week, Kisumu Woman Representative Rosa Buyu and ODM officials, led by Siaya chairman George Okanda, asked Mbadi to stop confusing Nyanza residents. Buyu said Mbadi became the National Assembly Minority leader courtesy of the party and the six-piece voting pattern will strengthen ODM in Azimio. “Tell us what you want instead of whining and bringing confusion to ODM. Mbadi is among the leaders who have benefited much from the party,” she said. Okanda told Mbadi to resign on grounds that he is weakening ODM by not supporting the six-piece voting pattern. “The six-piece voting pattern we're calling in Nyanza region must have been discussed in an ODM National Executive Council meeting. Mbadi should resign if he is uncomfortable with the party's clarion call,” he said. Edited by A.N