Women leaders in Uasin Gishu have launched educational forums on peace and unity ahead of the August 9 polls. The women held the initial information and prayer meeting in Eldoret where they a rejected the recent National Cohesion and Integration Commission report listing Uasin Gishu as a poll hotspot. Former MP for Eldoret South Peris Simam who led the women said the polls would peaceful because communities had resolved not to turn back to the region's 2007-08 history of violence. “We live here and we have gone all over the county during the campaigns and no where have we found any tensions or insecurity problems," Simam said. She said the county was peaceful and those listing the region as a hotspot were damaging the reputation of its residents and causing unnecessary panic and fear. “Let the NCIC come here and show us the hotspot they are talking about in Uasin Gishu. We leaders and residents have no insecurity issues to worry us or anyone else," Simam said. She led the women, former Deputy Mayor of Eldoret Jennifer Koskei and former councillor Rael Boit among others. Most of the women in the group are allied to Uasin Gishu UDA governor candidate Jonathan Bii, popularly known as Koti Moja for often wearing the same jacket. Simam said her team was campaigning for Bii while also  urging residents to maintain peace and unity before, during and after the polls. “As women, we will not entertain anyone who preaches incitement or disunity. We also support UDA candidate Jonathan Bii because we know he stands for peace and unity of the county," Simam said. Koskei said women and children stood to suffer more in the absence of peace and unity, hence, their decision to engage in peace education ahead of the general election. She said they would not allow outsiders to interfere with peace and unity in the county. “Those busy branding our county as a hotspot are not residents here. They did not consult anyone before coming up with such reports," she said. Elders in the county have also rejected the recent report by the NCIC indicating that the county is one of those likely to experience violence. The elders from all communities in the region met in Eldoret and accused the NCIC  of releasing what they termed as a "baseless" report that lacked facts on possible violence. The elders led by David Nyambane said unlike in the past they were sure that there would be no incidents of chaos or violence in the region during the polls. (Edited by V. Graham)