Four players have been dropped from the Malkia Strikers squad ahead of the two-month High-Performance Training Camp set for Brazil, with the team scheduled to leave on Sunday. The biggest casualties were Kenya Pipeline middle blocker Trizah Atuka and KCB's Faith Imodia. The two were axed alongside the Kenya Prisons duo of Emmaculate Chemtai and Pamela Masaisai. Two more players will be chopped off after the Brazil tour with the middle blocking and left attacking departments likely to be affected. Outgoing Kenya Volleyball Federation president Waithaka Kioni said the team will only travel subject to logistical support from the government. Kioni was speaking during a media briefing at Golden Tulip Hotel in Westlands, where Mozzart Bet inked a Sh 10 million one-year sponsorship deal with Malkia Queens. "We were actually supposed to travel tomorrow (Saturday) but we are still in talks with the government and I am confident we will have a breakthrough soon. The camp is very crucial for the preparations of the team ahead of the World Championship," he said. The Sh10 million package will include a week-long training camp in Serbia in September, where Malkia will play friendly matches against world champions Serbia and Colombia. The quadrennial show will be co-hosted by the Netherlands and Poland from September 23rd to October 15th. Coach Paul Bitok said the sponsorship comes as a reprieve to the technical bench with morale in camp at an all-time low due to the uncertainty surrounding the Brazil trip. "Mozzart Bet coming on board is a great relief to the team and the sponsorship is a game-changer for Malkia." Bitok noted that the friendly matches in Serbia will place the team in good stead of qualifying for the second round at the World Championships. "Playing against European countries will help us analyze their style and help bring the mood for competition into the team. Our dream is to make history and with this sponsorship, we can now focus on the quadrennial show." Kenya is in Pool 'A' of the World Championships alongside Italy, hosts Netherlands, Belgium, Cameroon and Puerto Rico. THE SQUAD Outside Hitters: Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi, Veronica Adhiambo, Meldinah Sande, Yvonne Wavinya; Middle Blockers: Gladys Ekaru, Edith Wisa, Belinda Barasa, Magdaline Mwende, Lorine Chebet; Opposite Attackers: Sharon Chepchumba, Violet Makuto; Setters-Emmaculate Nekesa, Veronica Kilabat; Liberos: Agrippina Kundu, Veronica Makokha. 