The Garissa government has started training Sacco officials for efficiency in local cooperatives. Some 28 participants drawn from 10 Saccos across the county benefited from the proficiency certificate course in co-operative leadership and integrity. The five-day training, which ended on Monday, is in partnership with USAID, Livestock Marketing Systems, Garissa directorate of co-operatives and the directorate of livestock. It was facilitated by lecturers from the Co-operative University of Kenya. Ijara subcounty livestock production officer Shaban Sahal said the county government is closely monitoring the activities of the 36 active co-operatives. He said the aim is to protect members from losing their investments, like with other societies in the country. Sahal who represented Livestock chief officer Isnino Rage at the event urged the trained officials to use the knowledge gained and run their Sacco's vigilantly and professionally. LMS boss John Kutwa said they are working with the CUK to digitise the training module for ease of access to cooperative societies. He said LMS has also supported capacity building of the 10 officials from the directorate of cooperatives, to effectively fulfill their mandate in the local industry. “LMS has supported five Saccos to develop a credit policy and officials have received training on effective management,” Kutwa said. The LMS boss however said more is needed to ensure all cooperative members undertake training, to know their roles and harness the benefits of economies of scale. Garissa cooperative director Abdullahi Dagane said local producers have realised the benefits of coming together as Saccos. He said this has grown the Sacco movement in the county, where for a long time, the few that existed were inactive. Garissa has 56 cooperative societies. Nine are registered as cooperatives, while 47 are Savings and Credit Societies. Of these 36 are active, 20 are dormant and two have collapsed. Dagane said there are more than 5,000 registered members with a share capital turn over of Sh8 million. Present were senior cooperative officer Bishar Malele, LMS gender specialist Betty Mutua, LMS business development specialist Abdullahi Dahir and LMS programme officer Issack Dahir. Also CUK lecturers Richard Mwangeka and Victor Ochieng. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)