Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) have advertised the position of Lionesses' head coach following the departure of the incumbent Felix Oloo. Applicants are expected to send their applications by June 20, 2022. The applications should be addressed to KRU's chief executive officer  via email thus ceo@kru.co.ke The slot is open to individuals with a minimum of three years of experience as head coach in a Division One club or elite squad. The applicants should have a minimum of World Rugby Level 2 coaching certificate in either Sevens or 15's Rugby. The position is open to Kenya nationals only. The selected candidate will coach the team on the field to the standard of excellence while demonstrating a significant improvement over each annual period. Part of the coach's responsibilities includes evolving and coordinating overall game strategy and technical approach; coordinating and supervising the training program and being responsible for the final training program. He is also expected to come up with a season plan and file periodic reports with the Director of Rugby at the secretariat. The successful coach needs to have a background that displays people management,  leadership skills attributes and good conduct that displays excellent stakeholder relations and workplace cooperation. Oloo guided the Lionesses to a 10th place finish at the Tokyo Olympics where they lost 29-7 to eventual champions  New Zealand, 35-12 to Russia and 31-0 to Great Britain. In the classification matches, they beat Japan 21-7 but lost to Canada 24-10.  KCB assistant Sevens coach Dennis Mwanja was named interim coach for the side for the Commonwealth Games and World Cup qualifiers held in April with the Lionesses missing out on both tournaments following a sixth-place finish. Mwanja's charges beat Zambia twice (22-0 and 24-0) but lost the crucial matches to Uganda 10-7 and Tunisia 19-5 to finish sixth—their worse ever performance since 2006. The Lionesses will be seeking to bounce back in the Challenger series slated for August in Chile. The tournament acts as a qualifier for the World Seven Series