An MP aspirant in Busia has cautioned ODM leader Raila Odinga against sending Sh6,000 monthly to beneficiaries if he becomes president. Samson Owino, an independent candidate in Teso North MP seat said sending money directly to beneficiaries may have a limited impact on the economy. The initiative, he said, may only promote consumption at the expense of wealth creation. Owino said the money if Raila’s idea materialises, should be channeled to constituencies through the National Government Constituency Development Fund. From the CDF kitty, the cash can be sent to bank accounts of organised groups and the groups must have clear investment plans. Owino said the government at the same time should roll out a training programme to educate beneficiaries on the importance of saving and financial management. Profits generated from the investments beneficiary groups generate can thereafter be shared among group members. “Raila’s proposal to help Kenyans from humble backgrounds is good, but this money, if sent directly to recipients may not help much,” he said. “There are beneficiaries who will pick this money and go straight to bars and drink it all. Would that help fight poverty? If in Teso North for example there are 10,000 beneficiaries, multiply that by Sh6,000. That will give Teso North Sh60 million. “Let us send this Sh60 million to the Teso North CDF kitty where registered groups can write proposals of business ideas they want to pursue before they can access the money.” The groups, he said after investing the cash can have a yearly plan where they agree on when to share the profits of their investments. “Otherwise if we say we just send the Sh6,000 to individual Kenyans, this money may go to waste,” Owino said. Raila early this year announced that if he becomes president his administration will set aside money that will be sent to the poorest Kenyans monthly. Those selected, Raila said, will receive Sh6,000 every month to cushion them against poverty. The ODM leader also said his government will help single mothers and people living with disability. In February, Raila flew to India to benchmark on the Sh6,000 monthly stipend programme. India is among countries with a robust social empowerment programme that has managed to keep its poor population under a safety plan. Raila, has on several occasions defended his ambitious promise saying he will seal all the loopholes used to steal taxpayers’ money to get the cash to implement the plan.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)