The body of a 22-year-old woman who died under mysterious circumstances three months ago while working as a house help in Saudi Arabia arrived in Kenya. Family members received the body of Celina Kazungu at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 6am on Tuesday. Fred Kazungu, a relative, confirmed the body’s arrival in Kenya. Celina is said to have died on March 17 and the family has been fighting to have her body brought back home for burial. In a phone interview with the Star, Kazungu said the body will be flown from Nairobi’s JKIA to Malindi International Airport on Tuesday evening. “There will be so many people at the Malindi airport to receive the body of Celina. Burial arrangements will then start immediately,” he said. Celina went to the Middle East in July last year, where she has been working as a house help in Saudi Arabia. However, unconfirmed reports indicate that she was stabbed and died while undergoing treatment in one of the Saudi hospitals. In April, the family tried to bring her remains back home, but their efforts bore no fruit and they were forced to continue waiting. Journalists who visited the home of the deceased in April found the family in a sombre mood. Her mother, Dzendere Randu, who only speaks Giriama, demanded for her daughter’s remains to be brought back home for burial. “What I want is to see the body of my daughter back home, nothing else will help unless I see her remains.” During a previous interview, Celina’s elder brother, Owen Kazungu, said his sister left for Saudi Arabia for greener pastures after failing to join secondary school due to financial problems at home. He said they used to communicate regularly with his sister while he was away, but on March 8, her phone went unanswered. “On March 10, I got information that she was in ICU in critical condition. We tried to inquire whether she could come home for treatment, but we were told that she could not travel in the state she was in until she got better,” he said. On March 17, the family got information that she was dead. The family is now organising Celina’s send-off in accordance with the Giriama traditions.  (edited by Amol Awuor)