Simbas head coach Paul Odera believes the Sh10 million sponsorship deal with Hildana Lodge is a timely boost to the team as Kenya dreams to secure the first-ever qualification to the fifteens World Cup. The Simbas will take part in the Rugby Africa Cup from July 1-12 in France, which doubles up as the Rugby World Cup qualifiers. “This partnership couldn’t have come at a better time. We are fully focused on the task at hand, which is to secure Kenya’s first-ever qualification to the 15's Rugby World Cup. We go out there with the hopes and dreams of the millions of Kenyans and we will make you proud. Thank you once again for this gesture,” Odera said. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman Oduor Gangla noted that the Simbas have been in intense preparations for the past two years with eyes firmly on achieving their targets. “KRU appreciates this timely partnership that will certainly be a boost to the Simbas who have been in intense preparations over the past two years for this assignment. "Our preparations started last year with the Rugby Africa Cup Pool 'B' fixtures which we hosted in Nairobi. This was followed by two tours of South Africa in November last year when the Simbas played in the Stellenbosch Quadrangular and the more recent tour that saw the team participate in the Currie Cup First Division competition between May and June this year.” “These funds will be used to ensure the team prepares and performs well in France," added Gangla. The team leaves today at 1.00 am and is scheduled to play neighbours Uganda in the quarterfinal match on Saturday. The semifinals are set for July 6 while the finals have been penciled for July 10 with the winner earning a direct qualification to next year's global showpiece. The runner-up proceeds to play in a repechage tournament to earn a berth in rugby's global showpiece. The Hildana Lodge lies at the foot of the Taita Hills. The sanctuary forms a part of Teita Sisal Estate and speaks to the family's passion and commitment to the conservation of the wildlife and the surrounding environment. Jimmy Mnene, the Teita Sisal representative said: “The company has been a strong supporter of both Kenya Simbas and Chipu since 2019. Our wish as a company is to promote and develop our great team to be at the forefront of international rugby. It is our honour to be associated with the Simbas and the KRU.