Deputy President William Ruto's bid to consolidate his Mt Kenya stronghold is facing serious threats from the strong Martha Karua wave and blunders by his campaign teams. Karua is slowly winning the region to Azimio leader Raila Odinga as Ruto's camp engages in political cannibalism among affiliate parties. At the centre of contention is the management of Hustler’s campaigns in the mountain with some affiliate parties pointing accusing fingers at Ruto’s running mate Rigathi Gachagua. There have been concerns within Ruto's camp that since Gachagua was picked as his running mate, he has been making political blunders that could hurt the DP. Already some of the DP's allies from the region have kept off Gachagua's led campaigns, lending credence to claims of an implosion in the Kenya Kwanza camp. Rigathi-led campaigns in the region have recently been marred by sharp divisions with leaders publicly exchanging words in rallies. Insiders now fear the friction in the Mt Kenya camp risks watering down DP’s iron grip on the Kikuyu vote block at a time Azimio presidential running mate Martha Karua is enjoying warm reception in the area. The Star has learnt of a plan to assign the coordination of Mt Kenya campaigns to one of the Kenya Kwanza principals to defuse tension and reduce sibling rivalries that are threatening vote hunt in the area. A high-ranking official in Kenya Kwanza on Friday told the Star that the issue of Mt Kenya is being considered by the top coalition’s leadership and soon a solution will be found. He said the coalition is concerned about the infighting and pulling apart by members of their Mt Kenya team. “It can’t continue that way, we are not short of leaders who can provide leadership in the mountain,” the source said. However, UDA legal secretary Edward Muriu downplayed the divisions saying everything will be sorted and there is nothing for alarm among the affiliated parties in Kenya Kwanza. Muriu said the conflict must have been witnessed during a rally in Kiambu because the parties present were eyeing the governor's seat. “What was witnessed in Kiambu is very unfortunate and it will never happen again, since the complaint has been lodged, we will address it amicably to avoid fall out that might affect Ruto’s bid,” he said. Muriu denied the allegation that Gachagua is facing resistance in the Mt Kenya region. He said what has been witnessed is political and their supporters must be united. On Thursday, Gachagua faced a hostile crowd in Githunguri when he tried to drum support for the six-piece voting pattern. Gachagua had requested his supporters to only vote for UDA candidates a move that angered Tujibebe Wakenya Party leader William Kabogo and his Chama cha Kazi counterpart Moses Kuria. So bad was the infighting that Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo have withdrawn from the UDA presidential campaigns over what they term Rigathi’s dictatorship. Also cited as fueling the bad blood is the perception that UDA is out to antagonise the fringe parties from the Mt Kenya region and exert full authority in the area. Kabogo on Wednesday engaged Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi in an ugly public spat as  Gachagua watched helplessly. The two leaders are eyeing the governor's seat. The following day, Kabogo fired at Gachagua saying the Mathira MP is unfit for the second-in-command position in the Kenya Kwanza coalition. He confessed to having been among DP’s allies who were opposed to the elevation of the first-term lawmaker to deputise Ruto. Kabogo said Gachagua - a former long-serving provincial administrator is a dictator who will be overbearing should Kenya Kwanza form the next government. He warned the country will be plunged into worse autocracy should Ruto happen to be unable to carry out state responsibilities and Rigathi takes charge as the second in command. “Gachagua will be here on Friday, I am one of those people who were opposed to his nomination,” Kabogo said. Kiambu UDA senate aspirant Karungo Thangw’a on Friday blamed Kabogo and Kuria accusing them of harbouring hidden agenda within the Kenya Kwanza. Karungo said the duo is trying to hijack the UDA rally in Kiambu to sell their manifestos. “We know and very soon we will name them, there are those that are being used by our opponents to derail Ruto’s bid,” he said. Karungo said Kabogo is attacking William Ruto indirectly by hiding behind Gachagua. He said every party within the coalition should popularise their bid but stop blaming Gachagua when their ill agenda fails to succeed. “Kabogo and Kuria should understand that attacking Gachagua is like fighting Ruto’s manifestos and bottom-up team and we won’t allow that, they either accept to be led or they start their path,” Karungo said. UDA MCA aspirant Kihara ward in Kiambu Josphat Kamanya told the Star that sibling rivalry has been ailing Kenya Kwanza. He said Ruto will strategise a mechanism where all the affiliated parties will be accommodated to enhance free campaigns. “Our boss will help to solve the stalemate and our supporters should remain united,” he said. Kamanya accused Azimio la Umoja of spreading propaganda aimed at tainting the Kenya Kwanza alliance.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris