Principal Secretary in the State Department of University Education and research Simon Nabukwesi has regretted that a good number of students are yet to join form one. He said Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kwale and Kilifi Counties have reported a low Form One admission rate despite the government announcing free day secondary education. "The turnout in this region is  raising eyebrows with the government now considering a door-to-door mechanism to ensure all students are in  school. We must all work together to achieve the 100 % transition," he said. The PS Spoke at Rafiki Secondary School in Trans Nzoia  West Sub County in Trans nzoia County on Friday after issuing admission letters to 21 students who are part of the many that have failed to join form one. He said the Government is determined to have all students who sat for their class eight examinations join secondary school. He blamed the low primary to secondary school transition on lack of information that the government is offering free secondary education in day schools. To achieve 100 percent transition, Nabukwesi  said ,  education stakeholders, political leaders and the clergy must cooperate. “We want to inform parents that secondary education is free and textbooks are also free. All they need to buy is school uniform and provide lunch money,” he said. The PS who is a career teacher challenged politicians in Trans Nzoia County to support the government policy by supporting the school feeding program. "The work you are seeing me doing here today is normally done by MCAs, MPs and Senators in other counties. Here I’m told politicians divert the monies to intoxicating youths in order to get votes," he said. He warned headteachers of primary Schools together with Secondary School Principals against charging extra levies. "Motivation fees is an illegal charge that is not recognized by the government. Teachers are paid by the government, this must stop," he said. Trans Nzoia County Director of education Luka kangogo who accompanied the PS revealed that a total number of 203 students who sat for their KCPE in 2021 have not reported to the school. "We are hoping that all of them will be absorbed in various schools by Monday," he said. The PS also visited St. Michael Top Station Secondary School, St. Joseph’s Girls, Kisawai Secondary School, Chebukaka Secondary School, and St. Brigid's Girls National School where he commissioned classrooms constructed for the Competence-Based Infrastructure Development Program launched in October 2021. He also visited several Primary Schools.