The risk of Covid-19 infections is being aggravated by ongoing campaigns, a health expert in Murang'a has said. Dr Bernard Muia, a health expert working with the Murang'a Municipal Board, said campaigns cause large numbers of people to congregate. “If you walk around the streets, you will realise that minimal people wear masks and sanitise their hands," he said. "Especially now that the campaigns are their peak, it is the duty of every Kenyan to protect themselves and their loved ones from infections.” The country's infection rate is inching closer to 10 per cent after months of relatively few new cases. "The current rate of infection rate of 8 per cent may not reflect the situation on the ground since the testing of the virus has gone down," Muia said. This, he said, is because the tests are dependent on patients who exhibit symptoms and visit health facilities for testing. Many others, he said, may be having mild symptoms while still integrating freely with their families and members of the community. He urged Murang'a residents to exercise extra caution and strictly observe Covid-19 protocols as the cold weather sets in so as to protect themselves from the virus. Muia, who chairs the Health department at the board, said the rate of new infections of Covid-19 is likely to soar in the next few months. He said the virus, a respiratory tract infection, may affect many people, what with most residents abandoning health protocols the government stipulated to stem infections. Residents should start observing strict hygiene measures and wear masks while going to public places. If sufficient care is not taken, the country risks going back to where it was in 2020, when many lives were lost, he said. Murang'a county recorded eight new cases of Covid-19 on June 12: four from Mathioya subcounty, two in Kangema and two others in Kandara subcounty. Most of the cases were recorded in areas with extreme weather conditions, Muia said. He said the elderly and people suffering from chronic medical conditions should keep away from populated areas and seek immediate attention when they exhibit flu symptoms. Muia also urged the Ministry of Health to increase vaccinations against the disease, saying many Kenyans have lost interest, leaving themselves exposed. The government should step up surveillance of the disease and sensitisation in the grassroots to promote awareness, he further said. Though the current Covid-19 sub variants of B.A 4 and B.A 5 are not life-threatening as compared to the earlier ones, he said the government should procure medication currently being used in other countries, such as the USA and Europe. “Drugs such as Paxlovid commonly being used in the USA and parts of Europe have an effectiveness rate of 93 per cent," he said. "Even though they are quite expensive, they can help the country to fight the disease successfully.”