The National Police Service has opened investigation to determine the  degree certificates Senator Johnson Sakaja and Wavinya Ndeti gave to IEBC for clearance to vie for governor are genuine. Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai on Saturday directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to conduct speedy investigations to uncover the truth. "Owing to the constitutional and the legal mandate bestowed upon it, the National Police Service has commenced criminal investigations into the genuineness of the aspirants, namely Hon Johnson Sakaja and Hon Wavinya Ndeti, both gubernatorial aspirants for Nairobi and Machakos counties respectively, and determine if any offence has been committed," the statement read. On Friday, DCI denied arresting Sakaja, saying that he presented himself to detectives to hand in a protest letter to DCI boss George Kinoti. Sakaja, according to the police, hanged around and sent out alerts that he had been arrested over alleged links to an ‘international organized criminal syndicate’. John Gachomo, head of investigations at the DCI, told the Star that the senator was not under arrest. Sakaja had on Friday written to DCI boss George Kinoti seeking clarification on media reports that he is facing an imminent arrest over alleged links to an ‘international organized criminal syndicate’. Sakaja has been facing a career-threatening petition on the validity of his Bachelor's of Science in Management degree from Team University in Uganda. The case is currently before the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Dispute Resolution Committee. “Our instructions are therefore to formally ask that you kindly but urgently confirm in writing if indeed, the article is accurate in as the far as the words attributed to yourself are concerned,” Sakaja said through his lawyer Elias Mutuma. Earlier, Sakaja had vowed not to be intimidated by arrest and persecution, warning the DCI against meddling in Nairobi politics. “Our resolve remains firm. Bwana DCI Kinoti, I'm at my Riverside office, let me know if you'd like me to come over,” Sakaja said. He added; “Your office will not install a project on the people of Nairobi. My qualifications are legit and the relevant institutions have refused to play along with your games. Let the people decide.”