Kiambu traders will now have a favourable and secure working environment after the launch of a programme seeking to instal 20,000 street lights in major trading centres. Thika MP Patrick Wainaina alias Wa Jungle, has initiated the plan in collaboration with the Kenya Power and Lighting Company. This is through his 24-hour economy blueprint which seeks to provide traders with a favourable working environment and boost security. By August, Wainaina said, 6,000 street lights will have been installed while the remaining will be completed in the subsequent months. The MP who is eyeing the Kiambu governor seat said already, 2,000 street lights have been installed in Thika. Wainaina spoke on Tuesday in Theta ward, Juja subcounty, while overseeing the erection of electricity poles. “We have already identified trading centres within Kiambu which are poorly lit and we are in the process of erecting street lights in those areas,” he said. “Kiambu residents are enthusiastic farmers and traders and there’s a need to create a favourable and secure environment for their trade to thrive.” The MP who champions the Buy Kenya Build Kenya initiative, said the 24-hour economy plan is meant to boost and transform business operations to accelerate economic growth. “Power connections in rural areas should be promoted to spur the economy through the creation of value-addition industries,” he said. “We anticipate the economic growth in our region will multiply three-fold once we manage to have a 24-hour working cycle.” Traders in Theta said their trade will thrive because they will work for longer hours as opposed to when they were closing their enterprises as early as 7pm. “Thugs have been taking advantage of the darkness to rob traders forcing most of us to close our shops early. Once we get proper lighting our businesses will thrive and expand,” milk vendor James Kairu said. The project was also hailed by players in the transport sector especially boda bodas who said they will now safely ferry customers to their homes.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris