The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has cleared four aspirants for the Lamu governor race. They include the incumbent Fahim Twaha of Jubilee Party, former Lamu governor Issa Timamy (UDA), former Lamu Deputy Governor Eric Mugo of Narc Kenya and Umra Omar of Safina. Speaking when he cleared the last aspirant Mugo on Wednesday, Lamu county returning officer Maro Ade stressed the need for all aspirants to undertake peaceful campaigns and follow the law. “Our expectation as a commission is all the candidates will carry themselves with respect and decorum and remain peaceful in their campaigns ahead of the polls,” Ade said. The four candidates all expressed confidence to become the next governor for Lamu and pledged to bring changes to the area. Twaha urged the commission to ensure the election is free and fair. He recalled in the last election, aspirants in various positions, including the governor, senator, woman representative and MP ended up in court challenging the results. “We don’t wish that scenario to repeat itself. Let the election be fair in the eyes of all so that the winners will peacefully rejoice while the losers will accept loss,” Twaha said. Timamy, who is running on an ANC ticket, said it was time for a new administration to ascend the throne and take Lamu in the right direction. He expressed confidence of becoming Lamu governor again and promised to jail all those he said have sabotaged the economy of the county and, at the same time, urged for peace during and after the election. Timamy was the first governor from 2013 to 2017. He vied again in the last election, but lost to Twaha. “Elections come and go but we as a people stay on as brothers and sisters. Let’s not throw that away for anything. Lamu is behind in development but that will change during my reign,” Timamy said. Mugo, on the other hand, pledged to build an administration focusing on the youth agenda, job creation, drugs and health care. “I have experience at leadership which I amassed when I served as deputy governor and I know exactly what ails Lamu and what the solution is,” Mugo said. Safina candidate Omar is the only woman in the race and aspires to change the narrative about women in leadership in a region where tough cultural and religious inclinations tend to undermine women leadership. She promised her leadership will put more focus on women empowerment, youth and people with disabilities. “Being a woman and a mother, I believe I know exactly what challenges women, youth and people with disabilities face in Lamu," Omar said. "I can change that if I become governor and make life better for all of us. I urge the people of Lamu to look beyond gender, religion and culture and put me up there.” A total of 12 senatorial and six women representative aspirants have since been cleared by the IEBC in Lamu.  (edited by Amol Awuor)