A stand-off looms between security agents and Kenya Kwanza Alliance brigade over a planned rally in Nairobi’s Jacaranda Grounds. This follows a move by police to cancel the rally over what they termed as security reasons. Police were Sunday morning deployed to the field and stopped the organisers from conducting any activities. But in a show of defiance, Deputy President William Ruto who is the head of Kenya Kwanza told his supporters to go to the grounds. “The Kenya Kwanza fraternity and the entire Hustler Nation wishes a blessed Sunday to all na tukutane Jacaranda after church,” he said in posts on his social media accounts. This was shortly after 9 am when he learnt that dozens of armed police officers had sealed off the ground. The organisers of the event have not been able to erect a stand to enable them host the rally. The rally had been publicised by among others the now controversial Nairobi gubernatorial candidate Johnson Sakaja, who wanted to use it as a springboard for his bid to be the next boss of the city. Police said they had received intelligence goons planned to raid the rally and cause harm to many hence the move to stop it. Officials said they had been instructed not to allow anyone to the field on Sunday. “Let them come if they wish but they should know the meeting is not on for today. They can try tomorrow,” said a senior official. Anti-riot police were deployed to the area at about 4 am and stopped anyone who tried to access it. Those who wanted to erect a stand to act as the VIP area were turned away. This brought the memories of 2017 when police stopped a similar rally that was planned there by the then Nasa team, which was led by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Some of those opposed to the rally then went as far as pouring human waste on the field as part efforts to stop the meeting. Supporters of the deputy president have, however, vowed to proceed with the rally. Embakasi East MP Paul Ongili alias Babu Owino had also claimed to have booked the grounds for his rally but cancelled Sunday morning. He said he had full rights to use the grounds but preferred his supporters to stay at home. “I had booked Jacaranda Grounds for my function today and notified the police while Ruto booked the same venue on the same day but in 2021 as per their notification letter. I have full rights to use this ground today but let my People stay at home coz we love peace,” Babu said. He further said the police who have been stationed at the grounds were protecting the grounds from Ruto whom he claimed has “high affinity for Land." “Hii naye hautagrab. I humbly advise my People from Embakasi East Republic to stay in doors or go about their business as the angel of death (Ruto) will be visiting them today,” Babu said.