The construction of the Mtomwangodi-Msau-Mbale-Werugha-Mghange-Bura road is set to resume after stalling for months. The road was commissioned by Transport, Infrastructure and Housing Cabinet Secretary James Macharia on November 1, last year. Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako said the contractor, Stecol Corporation, is back on site to undertake construction of the Sh2 billion road. The Chinese firm will take three years to complete tarmacking of the 54-kilometre road. “All is now set and we expect the actual work of tarmacking this crucial road to now progress without a hitch. I will keep watch until this mega project is realised as detailed in the contract,” Mwashako said during a rally at Wundanyi town. The construction involves upgrading of the road to bitumen standard to connect the agricultural-rich Taita subcounty with other parts of the county. “It shall serve as a major link between Wundanyi and the Voi/Taveta/Holili highway thus enabling horticultural and dairy farmers access both local and international markets,” the legislator said. The road construction, he said, is a big relief for the region and will not only open the area but also create jobs for the community. “The only tarmac that touches Wundanyi by only 1km was built in the year 1972 under the stewardship of the then MP Danson Mwanyumba. Therefore this is a historical moment for the people of Wundanyi and Taita Taveta as a whole,” the legislator said. He further insisted the contractor should employ residents in construction work. The tarmacking of the road was launched in 2017 by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Construction stalled since then, prompting uproar from  some leaders from the region who accused the government of abandoning key infrastructure projects in the county. However, there has been a push and pull between Governor Granton Samboja and Mwashako on who should take credit for the multi-million shilling infrastructure, thus prompting the delay. Samboja, in a past rally at Wundanyi said the road was hurriedly launched and the contractor was not ready to undertake the mega project. The county boss claimed he led a delegation of county leaders to visit President Uhuru Kenyatta where construction of the road was discussed. “The road had stalled since 2017 but I talked to former Prime Minister Raila Odinga during his visit to the county. Raila called President Kenyatta over the same,” the governor said. While leading campaign tour of the county at Taveta on Tuesday, Deputy President William Ruto promised that construction the much-awaited road shall be fast-tracked. The United Democratic Alliance presidential candidate said the road had stalled due to lack of political goodwill from some politicians. DP William Ruto claimed money set aside for the project had been diverted to facilitate the Building Bridges Initiative. “This is one of the projects that failed to kick off due to interference from the push for BBI. However, we assure you that we shall complete it on time once we take over the government,” Ruto said. The Deputy President further promised to undertake other development projects in the county to woo residents to support his pursuit for the coveted seat. They include completion of the stalled Taveta banana processing plant and the multibillion Mzima II water project.