Garissa teachers have called on the government to expedite the hiring and posting of new teachers. Kenya National Union of Teachers executive Abdirizack Hussein said the region has a huge deficit of teachers both at the primary and secondary levels. He said close to 200 schools in Garissa county are being run by the school heads alone. Hussein, who spoke on Wednesday in Garissa town, said no learning is taking place in those schools. He said the shortage has always affected students' performance in the national exams. The Knut boss however said the Teachers Service Commission should involve stakeholders for a successful recruitment exercise. “We are the ones who know the most affected schools that need extra teachers,” he said. On Monday the TSC said it aims to hire 1,230 teachers from Garissa, Mandera and Wajir counties. Some 844 teachers will be hired on permanent and pensionable terms while 386 will be on contract. A circular by the commission said 764 posts will be for primary schools while 80 posts will be slated for secondary schools. “Applicants must be registered with Teachers Service Commission and must be a holder of a P1 certificate in the case of primary schools,” the circular reads. To qualify for the secondary school slots, applicants should have a minimum of a diploma in education. The circular further clarifies that the teachers should be residents of Garissa, Mandera and Wajir counties. “Interested and qualified candidates should submit their applications online through the TSC website, www.tsc.go.ke under ‘Careers’ or teachersonline.tsc.go.ke,” the circular read. Since 2014, the education sector has been most affected by insecurity orchestrated by the al Shabaab militants targeting non Somalis, who have been forced to flee fearing for their lives. The Knut boss said in as much as non local teachers are the biggest causalities of insecurity often times the issue has been exaggerated with those affected being innocent students. He said the commission should be strict when recruiting teachers as it had become a habit for the new recruits to ask for transfers, immediately after being absorbed. “Let the applicants be strictly residents as the circular clearly states. They should not be individuals who are not only looking for jobs but are willing to work in this region and assist our learners,” Hussein said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)