Fresh from winning Driftwood Sevens in Mombasa, Mwamba face Nondies, Nakuru and hosts Kisumu RFC at the Dala Sevens on July 2-3 in Kisumu. Peter Kepha's charges will open their campaign against Kisumu before facing a resurgent Nakuru outfit and complete their preliminary fixtures against Nondies. Kepha expressed confidence that his charges can win the Lakeside event after dominating the opposition at the Mombasa tournament. "Our target going forward will be to win another tournament. We have the momentum and belief to go all the way,” added Kepha. Mwamba's win has thrown the national sevens circuit wide open with KCB winning the opening leg Kabeberi Sevens and Strathmore Leos clinching the Christie Sevens. Kepha attributed the success of winning in Mombasa to a change of tact. "In the first two tournaments, we were not playing to our strengths but in Mombasa, we went back to basics and executed well. Here, we were able to look for space and deliver in both attack and defence," added Kepha. Kenya Sevens playmaker Daniel Taabu was the toast for Mwamba in the Drift Wood final where they beat Menengai Oilers 21-7. Taabu scored a try and created two more in a come-from-behind victory after trailing at halftime. Taabu was voted the tournament Most Valuable Player (MVP) with Strathmore Leos' Bruson Madigu going home with two awards—the top try scorer and top points scorer. In the first two tournaments, Mwamba reached the Main Cup quarterfinals, going down 19-12 to Oilers in the Christie Sevens and 14-5  to eventual winners KCB at Kabeberi Sevens. Kepha attributed the defeats to late preparations. “Our training for the Sevens started late and our performances were not the best in the first two tournaments," he said. Menengai Oilers, who finished second in Mombasa face Kabras, Daystar University and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology in Pool 'B'. KCB headline Pool 'C' and will face Strathmore, Impala and Blak Blad in arguably the 'pool of death'. Homeboyz have a date with Quins, Zetech Oaks and Catholic Monks in Pool 'D'. Standings: KCB 58, Strathmore 53, Menengai Oilers 53, Mwamba 48, Homeboyz 38, Quins 33, Kabras 25, Daystar 24, Western Bulls 23, Nakuru 23.