Decorated ex-Kenyan rugby international Humphrey Kayange has landed a key role at the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) as a member of the Executive Committee. WADA comprises a 38-member board — the agency’s highest policy-making body — and a 14-member executive committee, to which the board delegates the management and running of the agency including the administration of assets. Confirming the appointment, WADA president Witold Banka said he was delighted with the prospect of working with the Kenyan rugby legend. “I wished to follow up formally with regards to your recent appointment to the WADA Executive Committee (ExCo), as a representative of the IOC Athletes Commission, for a three-year term commencing on June 1, 2022,” read Banja's letter to Kayange. “I look forward to working with you in your capacity as an ExCo member, and, of course, in your continued role as a Foundation Board member as well.” The appointment comes at a time National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) has been collaborating with the Sports Ministry to curb rising incidents of doping in the country. Several Kenyan athletes have been blacklisted for using performance-enhancing drugs. Humphrey’s appointment to WADA ExCo is seen as a well-calculated move to inject momentum into Kenya’s relentless campaign and fight against the vice in the country. NOCK President Paul Tergat said Kayange's appointment attests to the great heights Kenyan athletes can achieve given an opportunity. “NOCK pays great tribute to him as a true example of how far our athletes can go if they empower themselves all-round," Tergat said. NOC-K Secretary General, Francis Mutuku, described Kayange's appointment as timely. “NOC-K continues to work very closely and collaboratively with the local anti-doping body, ADAK, to test and educate our athletes and stakeholders about the importance of clean sporting. It is an objective that we see as an irreducible minimum,” Mutuku said. Team Kenya to the upcoming Commonwealth Games is now in their second week of residential training camp, during which ADAK have held three clusters of education schedules since  June 1, 2022. WADA’s Executive Committee (ExCo) and Foundation Board (Board) met in Cairo, Egypt, on May 18 and 19 for their first meetings of 2022. Khayange was recently decorated with the Order of Golden Warrior during the presidential awards. He is also the CEO of Team Kenya for the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. 