Kericho Anti Corruption Court on Thursday convicted eight county government officials of corruption. According to the anti-graft commission, Peter Koskey, Lillian Chepkoech, John Kimutai, Japheth Kipngeno, Joash Chirchir, Stanley Cheruiyot, Charles Mabwai, Aaron Njoroge and Jawlink Logistics Limited were involved in an irregular award of Sh5.6 Million road construction tender. EACC said it received a complaint in November 2016 on allegations of abuse of office, conflict of interest and procurement irregularities by some County Government officers in the Department of Roads, Public Works and Transport. "The allegations were in respect of a contract awarded to a company known as Jawlink Logistics Limited at a contract sum of Sh5.6 million for the construction of a section of a road by the name Bae-Kapsimotwet-Kibaraa Road in Belgut Sub-County," the Authority said. The Authority investigated and found that on diverse dates between March 4 and 11, 2016, Kosgey awarded the tender to Jawlink through a Direct Procurement method without following the proper procurement guidelines. It also discovered that Chepkoch, who is a Roads Inspector with the County, was also the Director of Jawlink. She reportedly received Sh3,807,899.90 from the contract. ChepKoech, Kimutai and Kipgenoh were found to have aided in awarding the tender despite having knowledge that the company was not registered to carry out the road contractual services. Further, they submitted a falsified National Construction Authority (NCA) registration certificate to wit Reg /No.15061/0915 in consideration for the award. They were also accused of uttering false information regarding the aforementioned document purporting it to be genuine. On March 9, 2016, Chirchir, Cheruiyot, Mambwai and Njoroge were found to have not complied with the procurement awarding procedure and given the tender to Jawlink for Sh5,606,512. On June 10, 2020, the eight were arrested and arraigned before Kericho Law Courts to face nine counts specific to the offence committed by each accused person. They all entered a plea of not guilty. Upon hearing, however, all the accused persons were found to have a case to answer and were placed in their defence. The Court has scheduled 6th June 2022 for mitigation by the convicted persons and sentencing.