Kimilili Member of Parliament Didmus Wekesa Barasa on Saturday was forced to walk out of a political event organised by his rivals in Bungoma County after being denied a chance to speak. Barasa had been called to address the crowd but his speech was cut short, and an altercation ensued between him and the master of ceremony, who seemed to be uncomfortable with what he was about to say. The MC later took his microphone and the MP, willingly walked out as he bid goodbye to the crowd that had gathered. But his supporters would not let the MP take that walk of shame, they followed him while chanting his name. According to reports, the rally that was allegedly organized by allies of Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, ended abruptly after the MP walked out followed by hundreds of his supporters. Barasa said the crowd that followed him was motivated by feelings of solidarity, love, and respect for him. They later assembled at a field where he addressed the hundreds of residents who cheered him up. “You saw those individuals trying to push me away, but as soon as I got away from them, you followed me. You all are doing an excellent job and I salute you for that," Barasa said. Barasa, speaking after the exit, insisted that their support for Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, who is eyeing the governor of Bungoma, cannot be reversed. He accused Wangamati of having been an epitome of poor leadership since he ascended to power four years ago. He assured the residents of a new era once Lusaka is elected the governor of Bungoma County. Lusaka's decision to recapture the seat has caused jitters in incumbent governor Wangamati’s camp. Wangamati beat Lusaka, the county’s first governor, in the 2017 elections. But the former provincial administrator and Permanent Secretary appears to have learnt from his mistakes in 2017 and has his eyes on the prize. Wangamati won the seat on Ford Kenya ticket after garnering 197,422 votes while Lusaka, who ran on the Jubilee Party ticket, came close second with 175,929 votes. Barasa also took a moment to drum up support for Deputy President William Ruto, saying he is the change that Kenyans need.