More individuals eyeing elective seats at the August 9 general election could be roped into the ongoing probe on the authenticity of academic qualifications of aspirants. This follows a directive by the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji for Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to extend the probe beyond governor hopefuls. As at now, only Nairobi governor seat aspirant Johnson Sakaja and Machakos his Machakos counterpart Wavinya Ndeti's degree certificates are under scrutiny. Questions on Ndeti's papers revolve around how she acquired a Masters degree before a Bachelor's degree from a London university. Sakaja is under probe over allegations that his Bachelor of Science in Management degree from Uganda's Team University was forged. Mutyambai on Saturday directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to conduct speedy investigations to determine the authenticity of the documents. "However, it is prudent to expand the scope of investigations beyond the two gubernatorial aspirants to include complaints against aspirants lodged with the IEBC and the relevant government agencies including complaints circulating in the digital, print and electronic media," Haji said in his letter to the IG on Saturday. In addition, the DPP wants the police to extend their investigations in the fake degree saga to entities that may have aided in the issuance or procurement of bogus degree certificates by aspirants. Haji said if proven, such acts are against the Elections Act, Election Offences Act, the Leadership Integrity Act, and the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act. "There is need to investigate the role, if any, of government agencies, departments, and commissions to determine whether they aided and/or abetted the commission of any offences in the issuance of relevant clearances," Haji said. He directed the IG to submit the file on the investigations in a fortnight. "Considering that we are working with tight electoral timelines, the resultant file should be submitted on or before 1st of July, 2022," Haji said. The above directive could now see Umoja Summit Party presidential candidate Walter Mong'are alias Nyambane among those to be investigated. This is after it emerged that the former comedian studied for his degree in a record seven months at the Daystar University. He had initially been cleared by the IEBC to vie at the August polls before the certificate was revoked. Mong'are is seeking reinstatement of the withdrawn clearance certificate at the IEBC Disputes Tribunal sitting at Milimani law courts.