Mwangi Mukami, 38, has a remarkable life story, where he overcame dyslexia that left him with a D+ in KCSE to earn five degrees. His upbringing was tough, however. He was not brought up by his father. He cannot even remember when last he saw him. “I can’t tell you where he is right now, but I have met him a couple of times, he was a typical Kenyan man,” the humanitarian told the Star. The dad left his mother, a fruits and vegetable vendor, after a disagreement. Mukami found a father figure in mentors whom he interacted with in his life, and this filled the gap of his absentee dad. "I was very fortunate because since I was a kid, I surrounded myself with men who played the role of a dad," he said. To start with, he had two religious figures he looked up to: Fr Dominic and Fr Eugene. "These priests used to come by my house to drive and take me to the church, and I would spend the whole afternoon with them," he said. On weekends, the daddy figures would teach Mukami about theology and things they were learning at college. By the time he joined Form 1 at Ruthimitu Secondary School, he had met a photojournalist, Tim Gitau. "I remember very well a lot of times he would play Martin Luther King speeches, and he will let me sleep listening to them. And in the morning, I'd be all over, speaking like Dr King," he laughed. At Form 3 in Milimani Secondary School, Mukami met PLO Lumumba, and they would hang out almost every day. Lumumba was going around the country, collecting views from people about constitution-making, when Mukami met him. Being the president of the Children's Cabinet, he was asked to make a presentation, and that is how Lumumba shared his phone number. "PLO was the most impressive, and one day he just drove all the way to my house and saw where my mum lived," he said. At this point, the lawyer offered to pay school fees for him and follow up on his education. "He took me to his organisation's foundation offices, introduced me to all staff, and started getting very curious about my school," he said. Finally after high school, Mukami acquired a new dad from the military, Maj Humphrey Ngoma.