For this week's sermon, I had to read my Bible, side by side with a dictionary. It was important to understand the meaning of every word and its significance and correlation to our lives. The word 'steadfastly' implies a consistency and regularity to something that we do. Walking steadfastly before God means a consistent and unwavering trust and obedience to Him, regardless of the circumstances in our lives. One person described as a steadfast follower of God was King Jotham of Judah. In 2 Chronicles 27, we are introduced to a 25-year-old Jotham, who had been unofficially discharging the duties of a king after his father, Uzziah, had contracted leprosy and was now in isolation. Jotham is described as one who did right before the eyes of God and did not enter the temple of God — in contravention of the law — as his father had done. In 2 Chronicles 27:6, it is recorded that Jotham became powerful as a result of consistently walking in the path God had desired and chosen for him. Jotham's might was seen in the way he conquered the Ammonites, who then became his subjects. He also built towns in the hill country as well as forts and towers in the wooded areas. How do we walk steadfastly before God? Well, in 2 Corinthians 5:7, Paul says that, "We walk by faith and not by sight." Faith is the conviction in what is hoped for and evidence of things unseen (Hebrews 11:1). In light of the aforementioned scriptures, walking steadfastly before God means having an unshakeable faith in Him, fully persuaded that He will do that which He has promised to for us. In James 2:26, the writer says, "As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without action is dead." Our faith in God must be seen in the way that we live our lives everyday. Our actions must show, not only to God but fellow men, where our allegiance lies. It is only when our faith in God remains unwavering that we will be empowered and all the desires of our heart met. As Hebrews 11:6 says, "Without faith it is impossible to please God because whoever comes to Him must believe that He exists and rewards those who earnestly seek Him." Therefore, we need to continuously engage in spiritual disciplines that nurture our relationship with God, such as prayer, fasting, fellowships, tithing and giving. We need to continuously desire to bear fruit so that God may prune us to become more fruitful. Indeed, when we walk steadfastly before God, He will be faithful to empower us in all aspects of our lives, including spiritually, physically, financially and psychologically. May God have mercy on us and create in us hearts that desire Him each and every day.