The only woman eyeing the Kisii governor's seat has withdrawn from the race. Rachael Otundo quit the election after her running mate deserted her. She has opted to run for the Woman Rep position on PPK ticket. "Despite all the challenges I have been facing, I am not going to tire as a woman," she told the press in her office on Friday. The aspirant, who was cleared by Kisii county  IEBC  returning officer Samwel Korir to vie for the seat, said she was frustrated after her effort to get another running mate was futile. “Some leaders in Kisii  are highly patriarchal and they do not want to see any women ascend to power,”she said. The aspirant appealed to her supporters to be calm, adding she will give them political direction once she kicks off her campaign next week. “ I was the first and the only woman to vie for the governorship seat. The exit of my running mate has not dampened my hope. I urge locals to vote for me to serve them as a Woman Representative,” Otundo explained and urged her competitors to embrace peaceful campaigns. Otundo said women aspiring for elective seats have resolved to hold joint and peaceful campaigns to ensure that majority of their own win the seats during the August 9 General Election. The candidate, who hails from the vote-rich Nyaribari clan, appealed to women to use their numerical strength and vote for women for elective seats to enable them exploit their leadership potential. Those cleared to vie for the Woman Representative seat include- Peris Onsarigo (Jubilee),  Jackline Karani (DAP-K), Fontina Ngare ( ANC), Vicky Onderi (Narc Kenya), Maureen Moraa Obino (independent), Teresa Bitutu Oroo (UDA), Lucy Bwari Getoi ( DP-K), Julie Nyanchama ( KNC), Dorice Aburi alia Donya  (Wiper), Janet Ong'era (ODM) and Gertrude Nyatichi Mogoi. Otundo's exit leaves the governorship field to male aspirants Chris Obure of Jubilee Party, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati of ODM, Manson Oyongo ( KNC), Senator Prof Sam Ongeri (DAP-K), Josiah Onyancha (independent) and Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu (UDA). Korir said IEBC expects to clear 16 aspirants for Woman Representative, 13 for senator and six for governor. Edited by Henry Makori