Police in Kirinyaga have summoned four suspects allied to UDA for allegedly attacking nominated MCA Caroline Muriithi. The four, whose names were not revealed by authorities, are said to have Tuesday roughed up and ejected the MCA from Kamiigua Polytechnic grounds where Kenya Kwanza was holding a bottom-up economic forum. Present were a number of key coalition leaders, among them presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua, who was the chief guest. Gichugu OCPD Anthony Mbogo told the Star on the phone that once the suspects show up for interrogation, their information will be processed and forwarded to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Mbogo said UDA, through the county party coordinator, has given assurances that the four will cooperate and show up for questioning. The police boss said one of the suspects had been implicated in several incidents across the county. He said prior to Tuesday's attack, the suspect had manhandled and forcibly ejected a supporter of a different party from a previous UDA function held earlier in the month. “The suspect recorded the statement with us, and we have since forwarded the file to the office of the DPP. We are awaiting a response on  whether the cases will be consolidated into one should the suspect be prosecuted,”  Mbogo said. The OCPD urged politicians to maintain peace. He warned that the government will not hesitate to arrest supporters being used by politicians to disrupt their opponents' political rallies. “It is unfortunate that some are being lured with a very small amount of money so that they can disrupt their opponent’s meeting. That will not be tolerated,” Mbogo said. MCA Muriithi told the Star she has recorded a statement at Kianyaga police station. Muriithi, who is running for Karumandi MCA seat on the UDA ticket, said she was accosted by a group of people as she entered the main tent. She said they roughed her up, insulted her, attempted to strip her and pushed her out of the place. Police intervened and rescued her. “They hit me on the head and were on the verge of stripping me. They said I was not welcomed to that meeting and I should leave.” Muriithi condemned the attack, saying retrogressive politics have no place in modern society. "I have been cleared by the IEBC to vie for Karumandi MCA on the UDA ticket. As an UDA nominated leader, and the only woman MCA party flagbearer across the county, I have all the rights to attend the meeting,” she said. Edited by A.N