Interior CS Fred Matiang'i is yet to make promised changes in security commands for Kerio Valley to help end banditry. Calm has returned to the region after a series of banditry attacks that led Matiang'i to visit affected areas last week when he promised to make major security changes. The CS blamed some of the security chiefs in the affected counties for failing in their duties and ordered some of them be reshuffled. However more than 200 officers have been deployed to patrol in areas hard hit by banditry, which has claimed the lives of more than 107 people in the last six months in three counties. Leaders led by politician Lawrence Mutwol said they are waiting for the security changes to return life to normal. "We are tired of killings by bandits and if such changes will give us peace, then we will be happy," Mutwol said. The government also imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in the affected areas. Local leaders have welcomed improved security measures but say the curfew along the Kerio Valley will only work if security officers are deployed along River Kerio. The river is the boundary between the West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties. Villages around the river have been turned into killing grounds by the bandits. Mutwol said the curfew in parts of Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot would only be successful if police officers are stationed along the Turkwel line. Mutwol, an independent aspirant for the Marakwet East parliamentary seat, said law enforces should not concentrate along the  Biretwo-Marich Pass road. "Kerio Valley has thickets that make it hard for police to penetrate. Security officers should therefore close the boundary areas to contain the bandits from crossing  into any of the counties," Mutwol said. He said the government should also initiate income-generating activities for the residents to improve their living standards instead of relying on livestock alone. "Cattle rustling and banditry will be contained if the residents are empowered economically through projects like farming and business initiatives," Mutwel said. He said  Kerio Valley is rich in minerals that can be exploitd to transform people's lives. "Acts of lawlessness along the Kerio Valley would have been a thing of the past had elected leaders been honestly and sincere in fighting insecurity in their," Mutwol said. Deputy Governor for Elgeyo Marakwet Wesley Rotich said the government should team up county leaders to find la durable solution to banditry. He said banditry had stalled hundreds of projects initiated by counties. (Edited by V. Graham)