A section of Garissa women candidates have said they are frustrated by their male counterparts in their quest for leadership. The women said negotiated democracy is denying them the opportunity to seek elective seats as men are preferred. The leaders spoke during a consultative meeting with the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association in Garissa on Monday. The candidates said they face resistance from their male counterparts, cultural barriers that impede women leadership and lack funds. Jamila Farah, who intended to contest for Jarajara MCA in Balambala constituency, said she was asked to go for the woman representative position. “I was not favoured by negotiated democracy, so I opted out. There is a kind of male resistance to women leadership regardless of whether you are educated or qualified. "There are some people here who believe that women should only contest for woman rep seats and leave other positions to men,” she said. Farah urged women in the county to support their own, so that they could fight for leadership positions. Lagdera MP candidate Malyun Abdi said while they struggle to acquire campaign materials, there have been cases where banners and posters of women candidates have been destroyed by goons. She urged donors and women organisations to help women candidates achieve the kind of women leadership that is much needed in the country. “With the necessary help, we can achieve the two thirds gender rule. We need to help women to rise to leadership positions and put our issues on the national table,” Abdi said. Garissa woman MP candidate Katra Salat urged residents to avoid voting on tribal lines and elect the right leaders, who will work to improve their livelihoods. KEWOPA’s Simon Anyona said they have programmes for supporting women candidates to ensure most of them win and boost the number of elected women leaders in the country. “KEWOPA is committed to supporting women candidates before, during and after election. Whether they will win or lose, we continue preparing them for future leadership,” he said. Anyona said women are still facing enormous challenges with regards to their campaign processes. “They are financially strained and there are concerns over their capabilities to mobilise enough agents on election day. We are however looking at the best way possible to support them,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)