Motorists are likely to see more traffic personnel on major highways in a new drive to tame rising fatal accidents in the country. This follows a directive by Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai for a multi-agency operation on the roads to curb the trend. Police spokesperson Bruno Shioso said the crackdown is aimed at weeding out all the non-compliant motor vehicles and motorists who are violating the Traffic Act. The police service attributed the numerous accidents to human factors, saying future fatalities could be avoided should road users take caution and adhere to the traffic rules. "The National Police Service and the National Transport and Safety Authority have noted with concern an alarming increase in road traffic crashes incidences on our roads," he said. "The two agencies, NPS and NTSA further regret all the fatalities and injuries as a result of these unfortunate crashes." The police spokesman said the spike in crashes is worrying and requires urgent redress from all the stakeholders. "The increasing trend is replicated under other categories of serious and slight injuries," he said. Shioso urged motorists to ensure compliance at all levels and cooperate with the law enforcement agencies at the national and county levels towards achieving the objectives of this initiative. “Non-compliant vehicles should be kept off public roads to avoid any inconvenience to passengers," he said. Close to 2,000 people have died in separate road accidents in the country in the past six months. NTSA said 1,968 people died since January this year, translating to a 9.3 per cent increase in the fatalities as compared to the 1,800 that died similar period in 2021. The agency said 622 pedestrians died in the period this year as compared to 586 of 2021 while some 545 motorcyclists died in the past six months as compared to the 514 that died in 2021. The number of pillion passengers increased to 192 while 322 passengers were killed in the period as compared to the 295 who died in 2021. Some 181 drivers died in the past six months down from 197 that died in the same period last year while 29 pedal cyclists died in the period as compared to 44 of last year. The agency said Nairobi and Kiambu counties accounted for the majority of the accidents. Nairobi had 521 cases while Kiambu had 460. The majority of those dead were men aged between 24 and 34, the agency said. The survey by agency shows most of these accidents happen between 4pm and 10pm. Speeding, according to police, has been the main cause of the crashes. Reckless driving, dangerous overtaking, drunk driving, drunk walking, drunk riding, failure to use helmets, among other issues, have also been attributed to the increase in crashes. NTSA plans to unveil an Integrated Transport Management System to curb road accidents. The new applications will involve having modern speed limit checkers and authenticating valid road users’ documents, among others. NTSA said it had strengthened collaboration with law enforcers for harmonious execution of its mandate, while at the same time providing access to vehicle records and licensing data to support security agencies. It has also developed comprehensive, highly publicised road safety awareness campaigns and programmes, among pedestrians, boda boda riders, drivers of public service vehicles and heavy commercial vehicles.  (edited by Amol Awuor)