The government has spent close to Sh1 billion to equip local institutions to promote research. National Research Fund acting chief executive officer Jemimah Onsare said the agency has financed 20 institutions, which have established special centres to increase research and incubate innovative ideas. She said through the machines installed in these institutes, the research sector is taking an upward trajectory, advancing the application of technology science and innovation. Onsare said the manufacturing sector, which is one of the government's key agendas, can best be enhanced if research is prioritised. She said through research many of the modern challenges are technologically being handled. The CEO said developed countries have registered massive growth due to their governments prioritising research. “This is one of the key areas that plays a role towards the development of the country as envisioned under Vision 2030,” she said. “We should help mobilise resources that enable researchers to undertake their roles. However, the funding varies depending on the programmes.” Onsare spoke on Wednesday during the commissioning of the infrastructural research facility and equipment at the Kirinyaga University through Sh53 million grant sourced from the agency. University vice chancellor Mary Ndung'u said the move will support students pursuing engineering courses. She said this will help produce competent graduates who will aid in tackling needs that are in tandem with modern technology. “We applied for the grant through a competitive process and won. We were able to purchase the facilities that are now enabling our students under the engineering faculty to expand their knowledge and technical skills,” Ndung'u said. She said the equipment will also play a significant role in promoting good health. The vice chancellor said through such programmes, Kenya would gain great milestones in technological advancement. She hailed the government for its effort in promoting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics subjects saying they are playing a pivotal role in redefining the social and economic state. Ndung'u said her institute will continue partnering with the research institute and other neighbouring institutes for the well-being of the students. Charles Moturi, the university's board of council chair, thanked the state for its unrelenting support to the rapidly growing institution that now has surpassed 10,000 students. He said through the support, the university has provided high-quality education in various faculties. Moturi said the provision of such equipment would be a great enabler in sharpening the students' skills in their respective areas of speciality. Njoki Gakinya, a mechanical engineering student said, the equipment will help her break the theoretical knowledge and professional jargon into a more comprehensible and interesting course. Her sentiments were echoed by Mwangi Kimani, who said the facilities would help them get an understanding of what they expect in the job market.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris