Kenya Sevens talisman Collins Injera and former skipper Andrew Amonde are available for selection for Saturday's Currie Cup showdown against Eastern Province Elephants at the RFUEA ground. The duo has been in camp with the team for the past fortnight and head coach Paul Oder looks to make six to seven changes ahead of the weekend clash weekend. Kenya Seven stars will bring their experience and leadership for the Simbas who last Saturday dispatched the Leopards 51-35 at the same venue. They last played for the Simbas during the World Cup repechage in France four years ago but have played for their club sides KCB and Mwamba in the Kenya Cup. Joining the team on Wednesday was towering lock forward Malcolm Onsando from his base in Romania. Team manager Jimmie Mnene said they are expecting a stern test from the Elephants who are placed second on the log. "This is our final match of the competition before we head to France and playing at home just as we did last will be a big boost for the team,” he said. Mnene said the teams' physicality and conditioning had improved tremendously while in South Africa during the Currie Cup. “If you look at our boys, they have added five to 10kgs of muscle to their body. So the intensity and physicality you see with the boys is a good sign before we go to the World Cup qualifier,” added Mnene. He said they need to improve their defensive shape after conceding five tries to the Leopards last week. “Yes, it's a concern. Remember, we are trying new defensive patterns and sometimes they work and sometimes they don't. Going forward, the technical bench will refine it and pick the best going forward,” noted Mnene. On attack, Mnene said the side can get better despite scoring seven tries last week. “Our attacking potential is great we have very big fast wingers in Bildad Ogeta and Derrick Ashiundu and we can definitively get better in that regard by converting our chances." The Simbas are currently placed eight on the ten-team log with 13 points with two wins and six defeats.  