Deputy President William Ruto has described his clearance to contest the country’s top seat a major demonstration that every Kenyan irrespective of their background can lead the country. He said his candidature is a win for ordinary Kenyans who had been made to believe that the country’s leadership is a preserve for elites. “Today is an important day in the history of Kenya. Every mother however poor she is can be confident that one day her son can be President of Kenya,” Ruto said. He was speaking during a Kenya Kwanza rally in Kamukunji on Saturday. The DP maintained that his administration will address high cost of living and inequality which has condemned majority of Kenyans to abject poverty. “Cost of living in Kenya is driving millions of Kenyans into poverty and desperation. “Today we are starting the journey to save the country from few Kenyans who regard us as tenants in this country.” The UDA presidential candidate said his government will pump Sh100 billion in the manufacturing and industries to give the youth an opportunity to gainfully contribute to nation building. If elected, the DP said he will review the economic model saying the current system has been perpetuating the ever widening gap between the rich and the poor. As a way to reduce the country’s debt burden, Ruto said his Kenya Kwanza administration will stop any borrowing and instead encourage investors to open shops in the country. The DP said the current system has made it possible for only few people to get filthy rich while condemning millions of Kenyans to poverty. He said his administration will change the economic model to give all Kenyans equal opportunity. “The model has entrenched poverty by making few people filthy rich while at the same time condemning millions to poverty,” Ruto said. He reiterated his promise to set aside 50 per cent of his Cabinet for women if he gets the nod of Kenyans on August 9. The Deputy President also hit out at Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance Coalition saying they have misdiagnosed the problem facing Kenyans. “Our friends are telling us that the problem of Kenyans is poverty, ignorance and diseases. The problem is inequality,” he said. Ruto was accompanied by his running mate Rigathi Gachagua, Kenya Kwanza leaders Musalia Mudavadi and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Others are Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Governor Amason Kingi of Kilifi, Margaret Wanjiru and nominated Senator Millicent Omanga.