Pesapal is piloting an online payment acceptance solution for hotels, to enable customers to make direct orders and create a seamless online ordering experience for staff. Under this arrangement, Pesapal has integrated with Uber Eats to enable direct ordering with the kitchen production system. Dubbed Reserveport, integration has been piloted at Artcaffé Capital Centre and Artcaffé Village Market, with plans to roll it out to more restaurants and integrate it into more food delivery apps. “With our integration with Oracle, orders from Uber Eats are posted directly to the restaurant’s point-of-sale, which means no more manual entry of orders at the cash register, eliminating expensive equipment, lost orders, and the time-consuming manual order entry process,” Pesapal senior Software Specialist, Julia Waza said. She added that the industry must constantly innovate to ensure seamless online transactions and respond to emerging trends in the culinary ecosystem. This integration allows restaurants with minimum staff to run more efficiently – something our customers are finding integral to their operations as restaurants across the country continue to minimize costs as part of their recovery from the pandemic. It enables restaurants to rapidly deploy delivery with a service fully integrated into their point-of-sale (POS) platform and kitchen production systems, strengthening direct guest relationships through their own channels. According to Pesapal technical director Lazaro Ong’ele, direct digital orders continue to make gains in the hospitality industry as restaurants recognise the need to protect their one-on-one relationships with guests. ''Effective management of these orders is a critical component to success. Our goal is to give them tools that enhance their digital interactions with the customers and help them better manage their operations,'' Ong’ele said. These innovative digital solutions are helping restaurant owners and managers to run their businesses more efficiently and sustainably whilst safeguarding against instances of theft and faulty reporting. For restaurants, Reserveport enables all online menus and orders to be managed from one central platform while orders from delivery apps are directly posted to your point-of-sale. This is not the first payment solution Pesapal is rolling out for the hospitality industry. Others include Pesapal Sabi Point of Sale terminal/PDQ, Payment Links, Invoicing and Ticketsasa.