The government has been challenged to secure polling stations along the troubled borders of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties ahead of the August 9th election. The call was made by candidates vying for various parliamentary seats in the region. They claimed a majority of displaced families from the affected border are yet to resettle back to their homes due to fear of fresh attacks. Simon Kalekem, the Pokot South UDA parliamentary candidate, expressed fear that the majority of eligible voters might not exercise their democratic rights to elect leaders of their choice due to frequent deadly banditry and cattle rustling attacks. "It is unfortunate to note that armed bandits have turned the volatile border into their battleground despite the presence of security personnel and we appeal to the government to find a lasting solution to the decade-long insecurity problem," said Kalekem. Lawrence Mutwo, an independent candidate, who is vying against two-term MP Bowen Kangongo for Marakwet East parliamentary seat echoed Kalekem's sentiments. He said that hundreds of voters residing at the border of the two counties should be guaranteed security of their lives and property to enable them to take part in the upcoming election. Their concerns come in the wake of a recent directive by the government to impose a 30-day curfew in Kerio Valley to tame run-away insecurity. The government's move followed a heinous incident where three pupils of Tot Primary School in Marakwet East constituency were shot dead and six other people injured in volatile Kerio Valley. While addressing the media in Eldoret on Tuesday, government spokesman Colonel Retired Cyrus Oguna assured the affected families that all measures have been put in place to ensure peace prevails in the volatile region during and after the August election. "There is no cause for alarm in Kerio valley over looming insecurity since all public primary and secondary schools have resumed formal learning programmes after the government restored law and order last month," assured Oguna.