Prostate cancer patients covered by the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) can now access an innovator prescription drug manufactured and distributed by Janssen Kenya. The prescription drug, Abiraterone Acetate used for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer will be made available to NHIF members within their existing benefits package. This follows the signing of a joint Memorandum of Understanding between NHIF and Johnson & Johnson Middle East FZ-LLC (Janssen Kenya). Janssen is one of the pharmaceutical companies under the Johnson & Johnson umbrella, as part of a strategic development to expand access to quality treatment in Kenya. Speaking after witnessing the MoU signing, Ministry of Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache in a speech read on her behalf by NHIF Chairperson Lewis Nguyai described the partnership as a landmark development that will help boost local access to innovator drugs. The Ministry of Health and NHIF, she said, have been actively engaging innovative pharmaceutical companies to seal similar private-public partnership agreements, that will facilitate access to innovator drugs at affordable rates. "The Ministry of Health and NHIF has sealed this landmark MoU with Janssen as part of our ongoing foundation building to ensure the success of the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) national rollout," she said "The Abiraterone Acetate will enhance positive health outcomes for prostate cancer patients," Mochache added. Visiting Senior Vice President for Emerging Markets at Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson Asgar Rangoonwala reiterated the company´s commitment to boosting access to innovative medicines in emerging economies. The company, he confirmed, is pursuing public-private partnerships to enhance access to safe, effective medicines and vaccines in developing countries for the most vulnerable patients. "At Janssen, we are committed to advancing medical innovations that address unmet health needs in resource-limited settings," Rangoonwala said. NHIF CEO Dr. Peter Kamunyo echoed the importance of the partnership in Universal Health Coverage, confirming that NHIF has reviewed and expanded the range of benefits available for cancer patients. He said the review of benefits is geared toward alleviating the plight of cancer patients and increasing access to medication. "The Fund's core mandate is to provide medical insurance cover to all its members by ensuring that the range of benefits remains value-filled," Kamunyo added. He further said that NHIF was negotiating for such innovations so that the cost of medication required to save lives fits within the packages offered. AMREF Health Africa Group CEO Githinji Gitahi lauded the partnership which he noted will help alleviate the plight of patients undergoing cancer treatment. While reiterating the need for a functional cancer registry to guide response strategies, Gitahi highlighted the need for patient-centred approaches to healthcare delivery. Currently, the NHIF cancer care package entails up to 10 chemotherapy sessions, oral and injectable anti-cancer drugs, inpatient, and outpatient oncology services, 20 sessions for radiotherapy, and up to two sessions for Brachytherapy for advanced cancer, per year. The health facilities that offer the package include some level five and six hospitals and selected private hospitals in urban centres. NHIF covers six sessions for the first-line treatment for up to Sh25,000 per session, four sessions for second-and third-line treatment for up to Sh150,000 per session, and 20 sessions of radiotherapy at Sh3,600 per session. At the diagnosis level, the cover includes a biopsy under the surgical package in addition to Radiology including MRIs, ultrasounds, or CT and PET scans. Cancer remains one of the major non-communicable diseases in Kenya and ranks third as a cause of death after infectious diseases and cardiovascular diseases. It is estimated that there are 42,000 new cases annually and approximately 28,000 cancer-related deaths every year. More than 70 per cent of cancer cases are diagnosed late when treatment outcomes are poor, and palliative care is usually the only management amenable.