Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has told the police not to drag Machakos Gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti into the fight against him. While responding to a letter by the Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai directing the DCI to investigate their degree certificates, the UDA governor candidate insisted that the Machakos candidate should be left out. He also accused the Directorate of Criminal Investigations of speaking about the matter on Thursday and drafting a press statement read by the Commission for University Education on Friday, over his academic credentials. "No need to drag Wavinya into the political fight against me for Nairobi. There’s no investigation being commenced now. The DCI already spoke prejudicially on Thursday and your officers were at CUE yesterday afternoon drafting the presser. Leave Wavinya out of it," Sakaja tweeted. On Saturday, the Inspector General directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to conduct speedy investigations to uncover the truth. "Owing to the constitutional and the legal mandate bestowed upon it, the National Police Service has commenced criminal investigations into the genuineness of the aspirants, namely Hon Johnson Sakaja and Hon Wavinya Ndeti, both gubernatorial aspirants for Nairobi and Machakos counties respectively, and determine if any offence has been committed," the statement read. On Friday, DCI denied arresting Sakaja, saying that he presented himself to detectives to hand in a protest letter to DCI boss George Kinoti. Sakaja, according to the police, hanged around and sent out alerts that he had been arrested over alleged links to an ‘international organized criminal syndicate’. Sakaja has been facing a career-threatening petition on the validity of his Bachelor's of Science in Management degree from Team University in Uganda. The case is currently before the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Dispute Resolution Committee. Earlier, Sakaja had vowed not to be intimidated by arrest and persecution, warning the DCI against meddling in Nairobi politics. “Our resolve remains firm. Bwana DCI Kinoti, I'm at my Riverside office, let me know if you'd like me to come over,” Sakaja said. He added; “Your office will not install a project on the people of Nairobi. My qualifications are legit and the relevant institutions have refused to play along with your games. Let the people decide.”