Wajir West ODM parliamentary aspirant Yussuf Farah has brushed off Deputy President William Ruto’s maiden visit to Hadado in Wajir West. Ruto, who is the UDA presidential candidate, made stops at Habaswein, Hadado, Kutulo and Bute districts of Wajir county spreading his bottom-up political gospel in Northern Kenya. The DP told residents that water harvesting and food security will top his priorities once he forms government. Farah, who spoke while on the campaign trail in Hadado Wajir town yesterday, said the constituents of Wajir West are not interested in Ruto’s call to join his Kenya Kwanza’s political discourse. “We (Wajir West) have been in opposition longer than almost all other voters in Northern Kenya and we therefore want to tell Ruto that we are not ready to explore the adventures of opposition politics with him. We want to be part and parcel of the Azimio government led by Raila Odinga,” he said. Farah called on the incumbent Ahmed Kolosh to face the realities and challenges of Wajir West people head on instead of hiding behind the excitements of Ruto’s political tours. “Life in opposition politics does not excite us. We have been opposing Moi, we went against the grain during the 2005 referendum and stood against the Uhuruto government in 2013 and 2017. We know where the Kenya Kwanza outfit belongs come  August 9, 2022 and we don’t want to be on the same side again,” he added. Farah hit out at Kolosh saying he had failed to unite all communities residing in the constituency. “The incumbent has failed in stabilising cohesion among the Matan sub-clans isolating some from administrative positions such as chiefs as well as failing to minimise the Isiolo-Wajir West border clashes where more than 30 people from Wajir West have been killed since 2019. On development, Farah said Kolosh has not initiated any new projects except promising to do things differently if elected. “The incumbent has been riding on development projects that were started by his predecessor Abdikadir Ore including the Giriftu Livestock Training Institute and Hadado district. Some of the rural schools are yet to benefit from the CDF in terms of infrastructure development while bursary distribution has been marred by favouritism and limited allocations among students at the tertiary levels, this are things I plan to change,” Muhumed said. Contestants in the Wajir West race include Muhumed who is vying on an ODM ticket, the incumbent Kolosh of UDA party, former assistant minister Mohamed Khalif who is flying the Kanu flag and Mohamed Mamo of Safina party. Wajir West which has four wards namely  Wagalla, Hadado, Arbajahan and Adamasajida, is among the hotly contested seats in Northern Kenya. The Matan who are a sub-clan of the Degodia, live in the three first wards while the Ajuran, who are the minority, occupy Adamasajida. Farah enjoys the backing of the majority of the dominant Mantan sub-clans and is believed to enjoy the backing of the former governor Ahmed Abdullahi who is seeking a second stab at the top county seat. The race will also be determined by clan dynamics and party politics.    -Edited by SKanyara