Diminutive Diana Wanza of Kenyatta University bagged the country's first gold at the 10th All Africa University Games after clinching the women's 5000m. Wanza clocked 17.07.44 as Leriba Juliana of Ghana's University of Education (WINEBA) and  Welma Nkuna of Johannesburg University South Africa came second and third after timing 17:55.56 and 18:05.3 respectively. She attributed her win to self-belief and determination for glory. "The race was good. I didn't have any difficulty but I believed I believed if I have a coach I can do better. I kept on pushing in the race because if I won something better awaits me. I had a schedule which I followed ahead of the championship," Wanza said. Her gold win was the perfect icing on the cake of what has been a successful day for the hosts at the championships. Earlier, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology's Gideon Lamerian bagged a silver medal in the men's 1,500m,  clocking 4:01.87. Charles Baah of Ghana’s University of Education Winneba (UNEDW) claimed gold in 04:01.60 whereas Aziz Mohamed of the University of Ghana came third in 04:02.44. “I had enough practice last week before I came to Nairobi for the race. It was a good run for me. I won a scholarship race at Kip Keino Stadium in Eldoret last Friday, which I used to prepare for the championships,”  Lamerian said. In the men’s 10,000m, Kenyatta University’s Emmanuel Ngeno clinched silver after coming second in 30:27.8. The race was won by Dismas Yeko of Uganda’s Ndejje University who clocked 29:12.1 as William Amponsah of UNEDW came third in 31:20.9. Kenyans missed out on the podium places in the men’s 400m hurdles, which was won by Busani Ndlovu of South Africa in 53.92. In the women’s football match, a four-goal glut by on-form Grace Wekesa saw Makerere University whitewash hosts Kenyatta University. Wekesa notched her first goal in the first 180 seconds before scoring the other three in the eighth, 48th, and 52nd minutes. KU head coach Tobias Ochola said they had limited time to prepare for the championships due to the students' heavy coursework in college. In basketball, KU “Pirates” will meet compatriots United States International University (USIU in the men’s semi finals that starts today. KU went through as Group A leaders with a 64-63 win over University of Ghana as Ivan Ombiru scored the winning points. USIU, on the other hand, made it as Group 'B' runners-up despite going down 73-63 to favourites America University Cairo. “We have beaten them before but now they are a much improved team. We will not take chances as we know how to approach them,”  KU coach Caleb Osewe said. The Egyptians' coach Hesham Saleh, a former international said: “We are here for nothing but to win the championship. If my players concentrate, we have a good chance.” It was mixed results for KU as their ladies team lost 62-43 to Misr University of Egypt. Cynthia Kavila posted KU’s 14 points. USIU Flames won 65-48 over winless Makerere University of Uganda. The Kampala side also succumbed 76-64 Misr University of Egypt.