Nairobi Metropolitan Services is the biggest winner after it was allocated Sh19.8 billion in the Nairobi county budget for 2022-23 financial year. This is part of the Sh38.33 billion budget for the next financial year. The new budget is a decrease from the current financial year, which is Sh39.63 billion, deemed the highest budget ever since devolution. A total of Sh11.35 billion will be allocated to development expenditure while Sh26.98 billion will got to recurrent expenditure. The Sh19.8 billion allocation will cover the four transferred county functions of health, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary services and county planning and development services. This is an increase of Sh600 million from the Sh19.2 billion allocated to the national government entity in the current financial year ending June 30, 2021. However, County Assembly Finance, Budget and Appropriation chairperson Robert Mbatia  said the high allocation was to be utilised by the incoming government which might have new projects. "Regarding the transferred functions, it needs no reminder that the deed of transfer of functions back to the county government is expected to  occur in the first quarter of the FY [financial year] 2022-23," Mbatia said. On the other hand, the county assembly was allocated Sh3.7 billion for its operations in the current financial year. The funds will enable the assembly carry out functions like paying MCAs allowances, administration, renovations, staff salaries and maintenance, as well exercise its roles which include approval of laws and oversight. For the Ward Development Fund, the allocation has shot up to Sh1.6 billion from Sh100 million in the 2021-22 fiscal year after it was placed under the management of NMS. Meanwhile, the county executive received Sh18.53  billion for retained functions. To ensure that Nairobi is food secure, Sh382.7 million has been allocated to the Agriculture docket while Finance and economic planning sector has been allocated Sh1.47 billion. The Tourism sector has been allocated Sh777.7 million. It is mandated to provide a sound policy, legal and regulatory framework for supporting both local and foreign trade. The sector is also in charge of investments towards the county’s socio-economic growth and development. To improve the liquor board service delivery, Sh250 million has been proposed by the county. The board intends to conduct awareness campaigns to reduce alcohol and drug abuse. The County Public Service Board has been allocated Sh191.1 million for the implementation of sector priorities. On the other hand, the Education sector will get Sh2.3 billion where recurrent expenditure will be Sh1.9 billion while Sh2.4 million will go to development. The governor's office has a high budget allocation of Sh4.8 billion. The office comprises five sub sectors of administration, legal services, audit and risk management, disaster management and security and compliance. The Public Service Management sector will be allocated Sh1.9 billion while the E-government will get Sh162 million.  (edited by Amol Awuor)