Residents of Mandongoi in Mwingi North have declined a proposal by the state to put up a KDF training camp along the porous Kitui -Tana River border. They claim the government did not involve them in the decision and many will be left homeless as issues of land compensation were not discussed. The residents spoke on Saturday during a meeting held by local leaders at Mandongoi market. Last year, the then Defence Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma promised to establish a military training school at Mandongoi in Mwingi North, Sosoma in Mwingi East and Inyali in Kitui South. The regions lie along the porous border between Kitui and Tana River counties. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu offered the Ministry of Defence 10,000 acres along the border. She said establishing an army barracks along the border would help end the deadly clashes, which have been witnessed for more than 30 years. Kitui residents had lauded the idea of putting up a KDF base during a meeting with KDF officers and the Kitui government on Thursday. They however, disagreed after several consultations. Resident Jeremiah Mwanzia said the residents want proper channels followed. He said the community has embarked on filling a case to stop the exercise. Mwanzia said more than 250 families will be affected and there was no public participation done to create awareness of what happens to them. He also said residents have not settled on the game reserve land as the Kitui government claimed to own the land, where they practice farming. "Some have been buried on this land. Being told to vacate without any compensation and not knowing where to go becomes almost impossible," Mwanzia said. Another resident Mwikali Muneni said they have disagreed with the move since their loved ones are buried in the lands and exhuming them will trigger emotional memories. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu backed the residents saying it was an arrangement done without the involvement of local leaders. "It is a lie to tell residents that leaders agreed on this. We were not invited to any meetings to discuss the welfare of the residents after they are evicted from their lands, to pave way for the construction of KDF camps," he said. Nzengu said the land will not be taken away from residents without their consent and mode of compensation, as it is their constitutional right. He also blamed the Kitui government for spearheading the move, which he says will leave many residents as squatters. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)