Club football has taken a break in most parts of Europe and the focus turned to the international break. Apparently, Kenya was supposed to take on Cameroon in 2023 but this will not happen because of the current Fifa suspension slapped on Kenya. Last weekend, we had the Champions League final that had clearly an anticlimax. Thibaut Courtois had a game of his life to deny Mohamed Salah ‘his revenge’ and this was probably the last match for Senegalese star Sadio Mane in Liverpool colours. He has been linked with a move to Bayern Munich. Congratulations Real Madrid for the 14th Champions League title. A couple of games have been lined up for this weekend and as usual, we will pick three of the best for you. Italy vs Germany Prediction: Azzurri....1 Germany..2 The two world soccer powerhouses lock horns this Saturday at the Stadio Renato Dall’Ara.  A 3-0 thrashing by Argentina on June 1 confirmed the worst fears for the former world champions Italy. They host a rejuvenated German side that has pace, power, and agility. The last two encounters between these sides came way back in 2016 both ending in draws. On this one, I will favour the Germans because they are the better side heading into this one. Algeria vs Uganda Prediction: Desert Foxes... 3 Cranes ...0 Desert Foxes' failure to qualify for the Fifa World Cup was a result of an aging squad and a lack of motivation were things that affected the Desert Foxes. Before losing their first game in Cameroon during the 2021 Afcon, Algeria had registered the longest unbeaten run of any country in Africa. They have regrouped and are ready to start over again. Our neighbours Uganda have never beaten the North Africans and I do not expect a change of tide here. Portugal vs Switzerland Prediction: Portugal..2 Switzerland...0 Interestingly, Switzerland have reigned supreme over the Portuguese in the recent past. A youthful Portuguese side is, however, very unpredictable. Nobody gave them a chance to qualify for the Fifa World Cup to be held in Qatar later this year. They did it in style. The likes of Diogo Jota, Rafael Leao, Bruno Fernandes, Bernado Silva and Rui Patricio should feel confident heading into this game. For the Swiss, watch out for the likes of Xherdan Shaqiri and Granit Xhaka. 