Old guards’ uniforms from SGA Security will now be recycled to produce school bags in an effort to promote a clean environment in the country. This is after SGA Security, a leading private security firm in East Africa on Thursday entered into a partnership with Africa Collect Textiles (ACT) in a drive that seeks to re-use the old guards’ uniforms into school bags. In the new arrangement, ACT will collect used uniforms from security guards and take them through a recycling process to produce amongst other items, school bags. The bags will be donated to school going children from underprivileged backgrounds. SGA Security employs more than 19,000 personnel spread across Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. SGA Kenya country Manager Lucas Ndolo said the recycling initiative is aimed at reducing the backlog of post-consumer textile waste that usually end up in landfills, causing harmful effects on the environment. “The average usage of a garment is three years before disposal which leads to generation of a huge amount of waste. At SGA Security, we endeavor to contribute to environmental protection through this initiative,” Ndolo said. SGA Security Chief executive and chairman Julius Delahaije noted that integrating circularity in key sectors of the economy will result in the development of new businesses in redesigning, recycling and waste management which will in turn increase sustainable economic development and resilience. Delahaije appealed for multi-sectorial partnerships with government, private sector and non-profit organisations to join the circular economy contribution, through textile collection for action and uptake. “Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategic pillars will not only contribute to a circular economy but also promote health and safety, and improve the livelihoods of underserved communities,” Delahaije noted. Africa Collect Textile (ACT) Kenya Founder and general manager Alex Musembi said ACT's business model is to collect and redistribute used clothing to provide underprivileged communities with decent outfits as well as to create sorted textile waste streams that are suitable for recycling. ACT is a Social Impact Enterprise that collects used textiles and footwear for reuse and recycling in Africa. By installing convenient drop off points at shopping centers, universities, schools and religious institutions and by offering a pick-up service for bulky items and corporate wear, ACT diverts thousands of kilos of textile waste from the landfills. Each item is carefully evaluated, sorted and prepared for re-wear or recycling. From the collected materials ACT produced carpets, backpacks, pillows, toys, sandals. “Consumers buy millions of tons of apparel every year. Through collection of under-utilised textiles from drop off points, the apparel are then sorted and prepared for re-wear or recycled into schoolbags, toys and carpets.” Textile is the second largest polluting industry and is responsible for producing 10 per cent of global carbon dioxide emissions every year, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). “The current amount of textiles discarded by the public in Kenyan urban areas is estimated at 35 million kilograms yearly, of which 20 million kilograms is in Nairobi,” Musembi said. Within the next 10 years, ACT aims to collect and recycle more than half of Kenya’s used textiles to curb the landfill disposal and gradually develop our recycling capabilities to be able to recycle more and more materials.