Different leaders on Thursday gathered to celebrate Queen Elizabeth's 96th birthday and 70 years on the throne. The celebration was led by UK High Commissioner, Jane Marriott. "This year, it is a double celebration, as we are not only marking Her Majesty’s 96th birthday but also celebrating her Platinum Jubilee, marking a phenomenal 70 years on the throne," she said in her opening remarks. She acknowledged that The Queen has been on the throne for longer than any other monarch in British history. The British monarch descendent on the throne in 1952. "She has become a much loved and respected figure across the globe." Marriott said Queen Elizabeth's extraordinary reign has seen her travel more widely than any other monarch, undertaking over 260 official visits overseas, including nearly 100 state visits. The Queen has been the UK’s foremost diplomat, affirming old relationships and building new connections. "Her Majesty’s connection to Kenya has always been a very special one," Marriott said. Marriott added that The Queen after ascension, went on to visit Kenya in 1972, 1983, and 1991 - demonstrating the continued importance of the Commonwealth, and the special relationship our two countries share. "Amid the crises in the world, we have continued to work together to deliver global solutions in critical areas such as education, health, climate, trade, and investment," she said. Kenya remains of absolutely vital importance to the UK, with President Uhuru Kenyatta making three visits to the UK in the last two years. Uhuru and Prime Minister Boris Johnson have on occasions shared the global stage on development, education, and climate issues (AIS, GES, COP26). "Trade between the two countries is worth around Sh165 billion a year," Marriott said. She also said that the UK is Kenya’s 5th largest trading partner (i.e. importer of Kenyan goods) adding the UK imports as much from Kenya as it exports. Over forty percent of UK tea imports come from Kenya. "The UK imports about 30,000 tonnes of vegetables and 19% of flowers from Kenya annually," the High Commissioner said. She added that there are 150 British enterprises currently in Kenya, benefitting over 250,000 Kenyans directly employed by British organizations. Marriott promised the UK will continue working with Kenya to help facilitate private sector investment into her infrastructure. "We will continue to increase UK investment in value-add activities here and support the ‘Made in Kenya’ brand." Among the attendees was Health CS Mutahi Kagwe.