President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday joined other leaders at the Commonwealth leaders’ summit that focused on post-Covid recovery and sustainable development. The opening of the 2022 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held at Kigali was presided over by His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales who represented Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, the head of the Commonwealth. Speaking at the event, Prince Charles emphasized the importance of the Commonwealth family. "We should never forget the things which do not change; the close and trusted partnership between Commonwealth members, our common values and shared goals," Prince Charles said. "And perhaps most importantly, the strong and enduring connections between the peoples of the Commonwealth which strengthen us all." The UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the developed world has an obligation to help members of the Commonwealth to cope with the global challenges. These include climate change and food security that they have had no hand in causing. Boris said during UK’s time as Chair-in-Office, the Commonwealth Finance Access Hub mobilized over $38 million (Sh4.5 billion)  for the most vulnerable members. The PM emphasized the need to press on for more to be done. On the promotion of education for the girl child, Boris said the UK’s initiative of £212 million (Sh30 billion) for the Girls’ Education Challenge announced at the last CHOGM in London in 2018 is now at work in 11 Commonwealth countries, ensuring that girls are able to gain at least 12 years of quality education. “We need to empower them to play their full part in the economy when they leave school, so the UK is funding the "She Trades" Commonwealth programme," he added. Boris said the funds have already helped over 3,500 women-owned businesses to become more competitive and generate more than £32 million (Sh4.7 billion) of sales. The incoming Commonwealth Chair-in-Office, President Paul Kagame of Rwanda thanked Her Majesty The Queen, for championing the growth both in number and scope of the Commonwealth family. He highlighted the existential threat of climate change to small islands and developing states as some of the issues requiring urgent attention. Kagame also pointed out the need to unlock the potential for new technologies to create jobs for young people. "The Commonwealth we need is on the frontlines of global challenges, not on the peripheries, watching events unfold. Our special strength is to bring issues into focus that might otherwise be overlooked," he said. The Commonwealth Sec-Gen Patricia Scotland said the economic damage of Covid, the mounting debt and the rapid intensification of climate change pose existential dangers that CHOGM  must address. "It will not be easy. She added that the solutions will not ride up onto the stage and present themselves before us," she added. "We must talk and listen to each other, and give all that we have to achieve progress for the 2.5 billion people we – you –represent," Scotland said.