Having served the country as a diplomat in various countries across the continent, Sheila Mwikali Mutanga has now thrown her hat in the ring for Masinga parliamentary race. Mwikali has been cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to contest for the Masinga parliamentary seat on a Jubilee party ticket on August 9. She hails from Ndithini village in the Mutheria ward of Masinga, Machakos County. Mwikali is banking on her 30 years of service in the Foreign Affairs Ministry to deliver the much-needed development to the people of Masinga. "My immediate position in government service was director member at Athi Works Development Agency where my contract ended on February 9, 2022,” Mwikali said. Mwikali spoke to the Star at Masinga town in Machakos County on Thursday, June 2. “I had vied for the same position before. There are lots of unfinished work to do in Masinga that includes creating job opportunities for our youths,” she said. The retired diplomat said the Masinga constituency needs change which she is ready to offer. She said her intention was to change Masinga for the better arguing that the major problem in the constituency was poor leadership. “I will fill the leadership gap in Masinga, to be a servant and not to be served. I want to love you first and serve you,” Mwikali told her constituents. Mwikali said all aspirants seeking various political positions across the country and especially women needed tranquillity, peace and space free from confrontations. She called for peaceful campaigns and elections on August 9. Mwikali urged youths across the country to desist from being politically misused to cause violence by politicians. “We depend on you, you are the country’s future. We need you tomorrow, don’t be used by any candidate to cause violence,” she told the youths. Mwikali said Kenyan women have this time round joined politics in large numbers since they want to be heard. “We have a voice and that voice is very important for the nation. I urge my colleagues, all Kenyans eyeing political seats, we conduct peaceful campaigns. Kenya is bigger than all of us, Kenya has space for all of us,” she said.