Kenya Kwanza coalition will adopt dialogue in areas where coalition political parties have candidates to settle on only one aspirant. Deputy President William Ruto and co-principal Musalia Mudavadi said they intend to field one coalition candidate per seat in all elective posts at the August polls. “The candidates for MP and MCA in various constituencies and wards are all our candidates. We will hold negotiations so that we agree on the way forward,” Ruto said. He spoke on Sunday after attending a church service at PAG Gatina in Kawangware, Nairobi. They were accompanied by Nairobi Governor candidate Johnson Sakaja. Speaker Justin Muturi, MPs Moses Kuria, Simon Mbugua, Alice Wahome, Nixon Korir, a host of MCAs and aspirants were also present. The DP said those candidates that will sacrifice their ambition will be accommodated in government should Kenya Kwanza win the August 9 election. Mudavadi said there will be no fallout in the coalition because of the many candidates. “We are one family. For President there is no debate, for governor we support Sakaja and there is no debate," Mudavadi said. He revealed that other than in the Dagoreti North MP race where there's only one coalition candidate, all the other seats have attracted multiple hopefuls. "For MP for Dagoretti North there is no debate. But for MCAs where we have many candidates in UDA and ANC, let’s agree on how to deal with it,” Mudavadi said. The consensus must, however, come before the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission prints ballot papers for the polls. Meanwhile, the DP said his clearance on Saturday by the IEBC to run for the top seat was a culmination of preparations in a journey where he faced numerous hurdles. "I have been fought, people close to me have been arrested, some have been framed and had court cases initiated against them, others have been bribed to abandon supporting me," Ruto said. "False prophets said we would not reach here but they have been proved wrong." The DP said his presidency would aim to lift the lowest in society and give everyone an opportunity. "We have many challenges. The cost of living is high, the price of food is beyond reach for many and Kenyans wonder what the future holds. "This journey should lift every Kenyan from their present circumstances and their present conditions. No Kenyan should be left behind." he said. His running mate Rigathi Gachagua told the congregation he was happy that the Church had taken a position to support Ruto for president and Sakaja for governor. “We know those who have said they will close the churches and those that support churches. We want Christians to be wise in making their decision,” Gachagua said. Sakaja pledged to fix the road leading through Gatina area, after the residents petitioned him. They said a contractor who had earlier fixed the road with concrete blocks had returned to remove the blocks after the road was launched. “Nairobi residents should avoid looking at tribe when voting. Let’s vote for leaders who have the interest of Nairobi at heart,” Sakaja said.