Lamu will enter the books of history if female gubernatorial aspirant Umra Omar, who was cleared by the IEBC, is elected in the August 9 polls. Umra is running for the seat under Safina party and her running mate is Julius Ndegwa, former Lamu West MP. She has risen up against all odds to vie for the top position in a region known for its cultural and religious barriers that don’t prioritise women in leadership. The race has attracted two other aspirants – former governor Issa Timamy of ANC and Eric Mugo who are seeking to unseat the incumbent Fahim Twaha (Jubilee). Umra, 38, a native of Lamu and a mother of two , said she is inspired by great women leaders among them US Vice President Kamala Harris and Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu, whose leadership she describes as exceptional. Omar is banking on her international connections, education and desire for a better Lamu to win. Upon completing high school, Omar was admitted to the United World Atlantic College in Wales for a bachelor's degree between 2000 and 2002. She proceeded to the Oberlin College in Ohio, United States, where she completed her degree in neuroscience and psychology. She later joined the World Learning Institute in Vermont where she pursued her master's degree in social justice in intercultural relations. Omar returned to Kenya and has engaged in humanitarian and conservation activities since. She was named among the top 10 CNN heroes in 2016. The following year in 2017, she was named the United Nations  Kenya Person of the Year along with the rest of the Safari Doctors team. Other awards and recognitions to her name include the Safari Doctors, African Leaders 4 Change Award(2017), Top 40 Under 40 in Kenya(2017), OKayAfrica's 100 Women(2017) and WEF Young Global Leader(2019). In a region dominated by male chauvinism, Omar said she is determined to remind women that they too can rise and become whoever they want. “This selfish and demeaning mentality that women can’t lead must stop and I am here to show just that. A good leader must be daring and women leadership is possible," she said. She says despite having many strong-willed women with the ability to lead, Kenya lacks the constitutional and societal support to encourage them to take up leadership. Speaking in Lamu on Tuesday, Omar said she will ensure Lamu features high up on the world map as an economic hub and attract international investors. She said her government will set up policies that will easily attract investors hence creating job opportunities for the residents while boosting the economy. “Our leadership will be different because it will be geared at delivering services to the grassroots. We will stop importing employees from outside or issue tenders to outsiders. The objective is to grow the local economy first,” she said. She pledged to unite residents regardless of tribe, ethnic or religious affiliations adding that her administration will focus on bettering the living standards for all. She promised to focus on improving access to healthcare, education, land rights and a well-conserved environment. Omar said that elected she intends to strengthen local economies by tapping into the Lamu Port, blue economy, leveraging technology, clean energy, and food security. She said she would equally ensure the resources of Lamu are used to build it as opposed to developing other counties. “We have so much here but the benefit goes elsewhere. It’s time Lamu’s resources remain here and be used to make it better and I know how to go about that,” Omar said. She said Lamu port provides a perfect avenue to tap into the global market and that her administration would ensure that happens. Omar is known for founding the Safari Doctors initiative at the peak of al Shabaab terror attacks in 2014. The organisation has been delivering primary medical care and health education by boat, air and land to Bajuni and Aweer minority communities in terror-prone Boni Forest for seven years. Even with little funding, she said the project has been a success and is confident that once elected a budget will be allocated by the government to do more. (Edited by Tabnacha O)