Hit Squad assistant captain, Elizabeth Andiego, believes she has practised well enough to leave a lasting mark at the forthcoming Commonwealth Games set for next month in Birmingham. The Africa Zone 3 light heavyweight gold medalist is among the eight boxers sharpening claws at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani residential training camp after being summoned by head coach Benjamin Musa three weeks ago. “So far training has been going on well. This is the third week here and we thank the Ministry of Sports for giving us a chance to start preparations much earlier,” Andiego said. Andiego, 35, said they are determined to make the country proud despite the numerous problems they are facing in camp. “We have some challenges. It would help a great deal if we can get more  sparring partners in camp. We are currently focused on training and we believe we will post good results at the Commonwealth Games.” Andiege is hoping to land one of the four available slots set aside for the national boxing team by the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK). If selected, the seasoned pugilist will be travel to Birmingham high on confidence following her impressive form in Kinshasa Congo, where she was among the three Kenyan female boxers who bagged gold. Andiego pulverised Tekasala Malewu of the Democratic Republic of Congo on her way to the winner's podium. The  Kenyan contingent secured a total of 18 medals to emerge second behind hosts DRC, after bagging six gold, five silver, and seven bronze. She believes the experience she gleaned from the Kinshasa trip has set her on course for a successful medal hunt at the forthcoming World Championship and the Commonwealth Games. “It was a build-up towards the Africa Championship and the Commonwealth Games. I can say I did my best and I'm happy. The team's performance was also great.” The seasoned pugilist is elated to have marked her return to the ring in style after a past harrowing procedure conducted on her left leg ruled her out of competition for quite a while. Andiego escaped death by a whisker in 2015 when she was caught up in a grisly road accident while riding on a motorbike along Kangundo Road on the outskirts of Nairobi. “I thank God for giving me the gift of life. I want to also thank the government and the Boxing Federation of Kenya for enabling us to attend the Championships,” Andiego said. “On my side, it's been long since I stepped into the ring. I've not been actively involved in competitive games,” Andiego said. Andiego, says she intends to nurture budding talent in the future, but only after bagging a medal at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. “I hope to wrap up my career with a Commonwealth medal in Birmingham next year.”She boasts a wealth of experience, having first fought in  2010 in Barbados during the World Championship. In 2014, she went to the Glasgow Commonwealth Games but crashed out early in her first bout.