New signing Jemimah Knight propelled reigning women champions KPA  to a 78-26 thumping of African Nazarene University (Anu) in a Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) match at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium on Sunday. Knight, who joined the porters from Storms, poured in 18 points while Selina Okumu recorded 11. She also posted 10 in a 59-42 triumph over Strathmore University Swords. "Jemimah has brought healthy competition and a good outside game for us. Her presence is also being felt in defence," said KPA tactician Anthony Ojukwu. "In our game today (Sunday) we were a bit relaxed, the players were a bit composed, unlike yesterday (Saturday)." His counterpart Mike Oluoch said he was not surprised by the loss. "I had only six players since most of my players have been unwell and so we have not trained," Oluoch said. Zetech University Sparks whipped Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology Lynx 76-22 in another women's tie. "It was an easy game. We are moving the ball well in attack but we need to perfect our defence," said Sparks coach Maurice Obilo after his third win in a row. "Jkuat had their chances but they never made them count. We must keep our opponents out of our 'D', something we must work on going forward," said Jkuat coach Mary Chepkoi. "It is a learning curve for Lynx as we strive to get better in the league." Storms, who suffered a 95-43 loss at the hands of KPA in Mombasa, recovered to whitewash Eagle Wings 69-32. Equity Bank Dumas recovered from a 64-61 overtime slip up against Thunder the previous day to defeat Umoja 52-45 in a men's fixture. "We are still struggling as we haven't trained well. I have good players but we are not a great team yet. We will pick up in a few weeks once our training peaks," said the bankers' coach Carey Oketch. KPA men subjected Strathmore University Blades to their first loss in four matches in a 54-46 win. In the lower division, Blazers hit Neosasa 69-50 as Strathmore University women's side lost 46-43 to Zetech University Development Team. KPA men suffered a 73-63 loss to ANU. The Wolfpacks led 33-31 at the break and had James Marial to thank as he sunk 24 points.