Kenyans have been asked to brace themselves for high fares following the surge in fuel prices. The National Public Transport Alliance (NAPTA) on Thursday said fares will be hiked as it has become increasingly difficult to stay afloat with the rising prices of fuel. On Tuesday fuel prices rose by Sh9 in the country, with a litre of super petrol costing Sh159.1 from Sh150 the previous month. A litre of diesel rose by Sh10 to trade at Sh140 while kerosene is now selling at Sh127.94 per litre. The prices will remain effective from June 15 to July 14, 2022. Speaking to the Star,  NAPTA executive director Charles Aholi said that announcement on fare hikes will officially be made in the next 14 days. “Unfortunately the fare increment is coming and commuters will have to dig deeper into their pockets," he said. The percentage of the hike, Aholi clarified, will be based on the different routes. He explained that government's decision to maintain or remove the fuel subsidy that has been cushioning Kenyans from the high fuel costs will also be a determinant. “The government is supposed to provide subsidies to its people but if the same people remove it then the commuters are the ones who will feel the pinch because if we maintain the same charges, the business will become unsustainable and very costly for us.” Aholi noted that the transport sector facilitates economic activities but no one cares about them in terms of subsidies. He revealed that route managers are currently in talks and will soon communicate on the impending fare increment. On his part, the Matatu Owners Association (MOA) Chairman Simon Kimutai sympasised with Kenyans saying the government has left its people to suffer. “For us to be able to provide services we must increase the fare. All of us are being hit by the increase of fuel costs. The government knows what to do but instead it's making life harder," he said. The MOA boss also noted that commuters have started minimising their movements due to the high fuel prices and matatus that have already hiked their fares. “With minimised movements of course matatus wont operate as normal and all of us are crying because no one is benefiting out of this,” Kimutai said. The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) said the government will use the Petroleum Development Levy (PDL) to cushion customers from the high prices.