Two men have apologised for their involvement in a social media video appearing to show a group of people singing a song mocking the 2011 killing of Michaela McAreavey in Mauritius. A statement issued by JWB Consultancy, a firm representing the men, said John Bell and Andrew McDade wished to "apologise for the vile chant". Politicians from Northern Ireland's main parties have condemned the video. The Orange Order has also launched an inquiry. It described the video as "utterly abhorrent". Police are examining the content to see if any offences had been committed. Michaela McAreavey, a 27-year-old Irish language teacher from County Tyrone, was killed while on honeymoon in 2011. Her widower, John McAreavey, continues to lead a campaign to bring her killers to justice, but so far no-one has been convicted over her death. He tweeted that Mrs McAreavey was "a vessel of love, courage and dignity" and that "hate can hurt but never win". It has not yet been confirmed when and where the footage was taken, but it was filmed in a room decorated with union flags and Orange Order paintings. The statement issued on behalf of the men said: "We offer our sincerest and deepest apology to the Harte and McAreavey families, and indeed to wider society for our actions which whilst fuelled by alcohol, can neither be mitigated or excused in any shape or form. "Our apology is unequivocal, and our acceptance of wrongdoing is absolute. "This behaviour is unreflective of the values of the Loyal Orders and the wider unionist and loyalist community." JWB Consultancy is run by loyalist campaigner Jamie Bryson, who has also condemned the video. A spokesman for the Grand Orange Lodge of Ireland said the institution condemned the content of the video "without reservation". "The behaviour of those involved and their actions have no place in our society and certainly do not reflect the ethos of our organisation. "If any of those involved are found to be members of the institution, they will face disciplinary proceedings." Separately the Belfast-based football club, Linfield, said one of its coaches who works with its players in a voluntary capacity "can be clearly identified" in the video. Linfield FC condemned the footage as "deeply offensive" and said the man's "voluntary association with the club has been terminated with immediate effect". Sinn Féin's deputy leader Michelle O'Neill said she has spoken to Mr McAreavey "to offer solidarity to both the McAreavey and Harte families". "Hate and sectarianism have no place in our society. People deserve better. Love over hate will always win out," she added. The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Sir Jeffrey Donaldson said the video was "vile". "It is plain wrong and is deeply hurtful to the family of Michaela McAreavey," he tweeted. Northern Ireland Secretary of State Brandon Lewis described the video as reprehensible, and said those involved "are completely thoughtless and only wish to cause harm". The Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) leader Doug Beattie described the footage as "absolutely abhorrent, disgusting and shameful". Alliance assembly member Kate Nicholl said: "How her poor family must feel. I have reported to the police." MP Claire Hanna, from the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) tweeted she was: "Appalled. Speechless, almost, at the depths some plumb. Thinking of the McAreavey family circle who should never have been exposed to this hatred and depravity." Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV leader) Jim Allister said: "The video glorying in the murder of Michaela McAreavey is beyond disgusting, bringing shame and dishonour on all associated with such loathsome behaviour." Mrs McAreavey was found strangled in a bathtub at her honeymoon hotel 12 days after her wedding. She was the daughter of former Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) football manager Mickey Harte, who managed the County Tyrone team for 18 years. She was married in her home village of Ballygawley, County Tyrone, on 30 December 2010. The couple were staying in room 1025 of the Legends Hotel in Mauritius. On 10 January 2011, Mrs McAreavey went to their room to collect biscuits and was not seen alive again. Local police later said she had been strangled to death after disturbing intruders who broke into the room to steal money.