Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga has promised to prioritise the health sector in the county, if elected governor. Speaking on Friday during a Health Summit, Wanga and her running mate Oyugi Magwanga pledged to employ health workers currently working on contract, paying salaries and remitting statutory deductions promptly. They also committed to improving stipend for Community health volunteers. Wanga who is seeking to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti co-signed with the health workers a document before High Court advocate Samuel Nyauke, committing to deliver on her promises. The Summit brought together health workers from public health facilities in all eight sub-counties, in Homa Bay. The governor hopeful also promised to equip health facilities with medicine and non-pharmaceuticals, honouring collective bargaining agreements, and schemes of service among others. Wanga said she will implement the pledges in between the first 100 days and six months in office if elected the next governor. Signing the agreements before the lawyer was meant to enhance commitment in implementing them. “My agenda is to fight issues bedeviling health sector in Homa Bay. I commit to fulfill agreement we have signed with health workers,” Wanga said. She also promised to fight corruption in the county public service board which has impeded employment of health workers on merit. Earlier, health workers complained of working under poor conditions including; salary delay, understaffing, lack of protective gears, lack of drugs among other problems. Kevin Osuri, chairperson of Homa Bay Health Worker Union who presented the medics’ grievances said the situation also humiliates them before their counterparts in Kisii Level Six Hospital, when they refer patients from Homa Bay County Hospital. “It has become our habit as Homa Bay medics to refer patients to the Kisii County Hospital. But our colleagues in Kisii are also tired with our patients because they keep asking why they don’t go to Homa Bay hospitals,” Osuri said. Wanga's running mate, Magwanga said the health sector must be given first priority if they are elected. He said the county cannot achieve the desired economic growth if its people are sick. “A healthy county is a wealthy county. We will ensure our people getthe desired healthcare,” Magwanga said.