President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday wrapped up his final Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) by attending an exclusive retreat at the Intare Conference Arena in Kigali. At the CHOGM retreat, the leaders highlighted the need for innovative and transformative initiatives to facilitate full recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. The Commonwealth leaders emphasised that the initiatives should also be tailor-made to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and respond to conflicts and crises in ways that increase resilience and progress in delivering a common future for the member states. Highlights of the outcome of the retreat included a host of proposed initiatives underpinned by sustainability and peace to improve the lives of all the people of the Commonwealth. They encouraged public-private partnerships to create high-quality digital jobs for the youth within the Commonwealth. In an official communication issued at the end of the summit, the leaders noted that the ongoing global conflicts, including in Ukraine, have heightened the impact conflicts place on global food security and exacerbated existing high food prices. In this regard, the leaders underscored the need to sustainably transform current food systems to address weaknesses of the agri-food sector, improve productivity and build resilience in agriculture. “They (the Commonwealth leaders) reaffirmed the importance of maintaining transparent, inclusive, fair and open agricultural markets and trade to ensure the continued flow of food, products and inputs essential for agricultural and food production,” the CHOGM official communication said in part. The Commonwealth leaders also discussed the global Covid-19 situation and resolved to continue to work in cooperation with national, regional and international partners to overcome the pandemic. They also agreed on the transition towards longer-term Covid-19 control by supporting universal, fair, timely, equitable and non-discriminatory access to and distribution of safe, efficacious and affordable vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.