The Kenya Red Cross Society has started the distribution of relief food to Boni forest in Lamu county. At least 1,000 families from the terror-prone Boni forest received food donations, according to Lamu county Red Cross Society coordinator Kauthar Alwy. Another 1,000 pastoralist households also benefitted from the arrangement. The intervention is meant to help families that suffered the worst brunt of the prolonged drought in the region. Speaking when she flagged off the exercise on Thursday, Alwy said Boni forest areas that will benefit from the initiative include Mswakini, Ingini, Ndhununi, Madina, Berabodhei, Basuba, Milimani, Mararani, Bodhei, Pandanguo and Kiangwe. Each family received 50kg of rice, 10 litres of cooking oil, 10kg of sugar, and 1kg of salt and tea leaves. “This intervention is meant to lighten the burden of food which has been caused by the drought. Because of it, crops dried up and so did water sources," Alwy said. "This community has been left vulnerable and exposed and needs all the help they can to get by.” Under the intervention, each pastoralist household will receive 250kg of drought pellets every month for the next three months. Targeted areas include in Dide Waride, Chalaluma, Moa, Kitumbini, Lumshi, Koreni, all in Lamu West and Ndau and Kiwayu in Lamu East. The Red Cross coordinator also revealed a planned cash transfer programme targeting about 300 families in Mararani, Kiunga, Manda, Shella, Matondoni .and Manda-Maweni. “We have already identified 300 households in Lamu where each will be receiving Sh10,000 spread out in three monthly payments,” Kauthar said In April this year, hundreds of hungry residents of Boni forest fled to neighbouring villages to escape an acute water shortage that has hit their areas for months now. The forest has five villages: Basuba, Mangai, Milimani, Mararani and Kiangwe. The majority of the fleeing residents are from Basuba ward and are now putting up in the neighbouring Kiangwe village, on the Lamu-Somalia border. These villages are home to the Boni minority community who are traditionally hunters and gatherers, and who have survived for decades in the forest, where they gather wild fruits, roots, leaves and honey for food. They also hunt animals for food and fetch their freshwater from the free-flowing streams inside the forest. Their lifestyle was however to encounter a permanent challenge following terror attacks in the region. The attacks prompted the government to launch the Linda Boni security operation inside the forest in 2015 in pursuit of al Shabaab militants. Owing to security presence in the forest, the Bonis were barred from accessing the forest, with the government pledging to address their needs until the operation is called off for an indefinite period. The security operation is still underway, meaning the Bonis can’t access the forest for food, water and worship as majority of their traditional shrines are located deep inside the forest.  (edited by Amol Awuor)