Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and Kieni MP Kanini Kega have differed over the construction of Naromoru Level IV Hospital with both claiming credit. Their argument on Tuesday spilled to social media. Kahiga claimed the hospital is being done by the county government in conjunction with the World Bank while Kega says it is a national government project being undertaken in conjunction with the World Bank. The governor on Tuesday hit out at the MP claiming he was chasing clout with his projects. The two proceeded to lay foundation stones for the construction of a morgue on different occasions with Kega laying the stone on Monday while Kahiga did so on Tuesday. The MP was accompanied by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege who chairs the Health Committee of the National Assembly. On Tuesday, Kahiga was accompanied by Kega’s opponent for the Kieni parliamentary seat on the UDA ticket Njoroge Wainaina. The two also gave different time for the opening of the facility with Kahiga saying it will be opened in August while Kega promised residents it will be operationalised in June. Kahiga hit out at Kega for taking photos with his projects to gain political mileage. "MP Kega should understand the constitution very clearly that health is a fully devolved function except for Level 6 hospitals. It's a shame that he is riding on the county project. Let him speak the truth and stand with the truth," Kahiga said. He told Kega he has no business laying any foundation stones on county government projects. “It is a shame that in 10 years, they still don't have an understanding of what their mandate is. Focus on your projects mheshimiwa Kega. Tell people the truth and stop looking for political mileage with my projects,” the governor said. “Naromoru Level 4 Hospital is my government's flagship project, following the awarding of a tranche of money by the World Bank after ranking position two in 2019 and subsequently position one in 2020 in the Kenya Devolution Support Programme.” The health facility has entered into its second phase of construction which involves the construction of a morgue, laundry and a kitchen. The three will be built at a cost of Sh72 million. The first phase of the health facility involved the construction of the major hospital building at a cost of Sh229 million. The equipping of the hospital by the national government has started and is expected to commence operations after the projects are completed. However, Kega challenged Kahiga to prove he had invested any county government money in the project. “My friend, show us a cent that the county government has put in this facility,” Kega challenged the governor. Kega claimed he is the one who lobbied for the equipment at the hospital. “I have lobbied for the equipping of the hospital, construction of the laundry, Kitchen, borehole and mortuary,” he said. 