Hit Squad captain Nick Okoth says he is confident the quartet selected by head coach Benjamin Musa to fly Kenya's flag at the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games will deliver. Okoth headlines the star-studded four-member squad including assistant captain Elizabeth Andiego (light-heavy), Shaffi Bakari (bantam) and Christine Ongare (cruiserweight). “They are all experienced boxers who have great potential to make the country proud,” Okoth said. “All of them have participated in the games at one point in time and they know what to expect,” he added. Okoth reckons his vast experience and the expertise he has accumulated over the years will propel him to a maiden Commonwealth podium finish. “This will be my fourth Commonwealth Games. In 2010, I returned home with a bronze after crashing out in the semis. In 2014, I went up to the quarters and in 2018, I sustained an injury that forced me out in the first round. All that is experience.” “I'm glad I have been considered for the Games but I must still work hard to cement my position in the Kenyan contingent,” Okoth said. Despite feeling disgruntled with his performance at the Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa Congo, where he settled for bronze, Okoth says he expects to romp to the medal podium in Birmingham. During the regional showpiece in March, Okoth settled for bronze after crushing 4-1 to Cameroon's Sangue Alain in the lightweight division at the Studio Maman Angebi hall. The veteran pugilist believes the judges treated him unfairly in the bout, insisting that he pulverized his opponent. “We were so sure we had won the bout only to be surprised when the judges declared Sangue the winner,” Okoth said. “Certainly, that wasn't the kind of results we had hoped for but I accept the outcome as part of the game,” Okoth added. The Kenya Defence Forces officer said despite the early exit, he gleaned sufficient expertise from the tournament to charge for the coveted gold at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games slated for July. “I now shift focus to the Commonwealth Games and I believe my experience in Congo has given me the much-deserved edge ahead of the games,” Okoth said. Okoth, 38, has pledged to jut out his full talons in Birmingham as he eyes one last vintage performance that will define his legacy and garnish his cabinet with memorable honours. “The Commonwealth Games will be my last competition and I'm thirsty for a gold medal. I want to use the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship to sharpen my claws well enough ahead of the Birmingham trip in July,” he said. “As I said earlier on, this will be my final year in the ring. I hope to call time on my career after the Commonwealth Games in July and I'm not ready to sign out with losses,” Okoth said.