Deputy President William Ruto now says his administration will protect and support Mitumba business in the country. Speaking during a four-day campaign in Kenya's North Eastern region, Ruto said there is no way small enterprises will be brought down by a small group of politicians with selfish interests. “We will support such businesses because they drive our economy and employ more than two million people,” said Dr Ruto. This comes days after he pledged to stop the importation of products, including clothing, once elected president. While addressing a rally, in a video seen by the Star, the DP said he will boost the textile industry and stop the importation of clothing items to ensure locally produced products get market. Similar sentiments were shared by ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday. While launching his manifesto, Raila said he will revive the textile industry so that Kenyans can acquire locally manufactured clothes as opposed to mitumbas. He said he will prioritise mitumba operators in their textile industry revival plan. The DP pitched tents in Mandera where he held rallies in Elwak and Tabaka Towns. He also presided over the Kenya Kwanza Mandera County Economic Forum. Pegging his development agenda on the Bottom-Up Economic Model, Ruto said resources will be channelled to the second-hand clothing sector. “With support from skilled youth trained by technical colleges, the sector will anchor the sprouting of the textile industry,” he explained. The Deputy President regretted that the politics of deceit and conmanship had become so pronounced in the country that some politicians were now looking down upon other peoples’ businesses. “The trickle-down mentality that informs some of these leaders is what is killing innovation and small enterprises in Kenya. It must be rejected,” he insisted. Ruto, who is also the Kenya Kwanza Presidential Candidate, asked the people of Mandera to rally behind a government that will take care of their interests. “We have been holding county economic meetings across the country because we want to rebuild our economy from the Bottom where a majority of the people are.” He added that there was a need for Kenyans to vote for their interests and aspirations. “Vote for jobs. Vote for better health and education for your children. Do not be used as voting machines,” he said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale asked the Deputy President to bring to a stop extra-judicial killings in Northern Kenya once he assumes office. “Our youth cannot continue being associated with crime. It is time the government offered security to its people and their property.” For four days, Ruto has been in Garissa Town, Mbalambala and Modogashe in Garissa County, Habaswein, Hadado, Bute and Kotulo in Wajir County and Mandera Town, Elwak and Takaba in Mandera County drumming up support for his bid.