Uhuru Classic Half Marathon winner Vincent Ng’etich and Jane Moraa clinched the men’s and women’s titles during the inaugural edition of the Nyamira Great Run 21km on Sunday. Ng’etich and Moraa defied strong opposition to win the race which was flagged off by governor Amos Nyaribo. The race started at Chepilat Shopping Center and ended at Ikonge on the scenic Chepilat/Ikonge Road. In the men’s category, Ng’etich who trains at Keringet in Nakuru crossed the finishing line in 61 minutes and 57 seconds, edging Edwin Bett to the second in  62:46 minutes. Vincent Rono (42:53) placed third. Ng’etich broke off from the leading pack at the 12-km mark and powered his way to the finishing line. “I stayed in the leading pack until after 12km when I decided to break away because I didn’t want to slow down my pace,” said Ng’etich. He said he was using the race as a build-up for his marathon debut later in the year. “I think I’m now ripe for my marathon bow. This was a very good race and the weather was perfect. I want to appeal to the county of Nyamira to continue sponsoring the race and ensure it’s in the Athletics Kenya calendar,” said Ng’etich. Moraa clocked 74 minutes 32 seconds to claim the women's race ahead of Talanta International Sports' Sussy Chemaima (74:45) while Teresia Omosa came home third in 74:55. Beatrice Chebureti was fourth (74:57). Speaking after the race, Moraa, a mother of one described the race as one of the toughest races she has ever run. “This being my first race after Uhuru Marathon, where I finished 26th, I’m impressed with my performance and recovery. The weather was perfect today. I will continue training for upcoming races as I look forward to getting a manager.” She hailed the county government of Nyaimira for sponsoring the race and appealed to other counties to follow suit. Winners in both the men’s and women’s categories received Sh250, 000 as per Athletics Kenya’s road running regulations. Governor Amos Nyaribo, who was the chief guest, announced that the race will be held annually and will be sponsored by the county. “I’m impressed with the turnout and level of competition. We want to revive the old good days' of athletics in the larger Kisii area,” said Nyaribo. The event was a culmination of a five-part cross country and 10kms road races series which was held in all the sub-counties last year. He said plans are afoot to build a high-altitude training camp in Nyamira county.