GSU and Anti-Stock Theft Unit police officers are patrolling the Kerio Valley as they await the National Security Council's approval to enforce tough measures to end banditry. At least 107 people have been killed by bandits in the region in six months. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said they are waiting for approval of the new measures to fight the banditry problem. “We have tried everything possible. We have even asked the local leadership to talk to the community, and it has not worked. Now we have measures and if approved, we will do what has never been seen in that region to restore security,” Matiang'i said. The measures may include forceful disarmament and shoot-to-kill orders. There has been an outcry from communities and leaders in the region urging the government to intervene. Last week, three primary school pupils and a herder were killed near Tot area. The killings caused panic in a region where more than 1,000 children are out of school due to insecurity. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wisley Rotich, Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen have asked the government to act and end incessant banditry and cattle rustling in the region. Rotich, the UDA governor nominee in the county, said it is worrying that people lose lives almost every day. “It is unfortunate that the government on Madaraka Day displayed military artillery in Nairobi, yet it could not use the same to address banditry in Kerio Valley," Rotich said. He described what is happening in Kerio Valley as "an act of terrorism". Rotich welcomed the arrival of police officers in the region and urged the government to also enlist the Kenya Police Reservists to help other security agencies in the war against insecurity. "The security officers should move with speed and restore law and order. We cannot allow killing of more people by bandits," he said. Rotich said the fate of hundreds of schoolchildren still hangs in the balance because even teachers have been affected. “People are displaced and a humanitarian crisis is beckoning. Normalcy should be returned to Kerio by all means,” he said. The National Police Service released a statement indicating that a team of security officers, led by GSU Commandant Douglas Kanja, had visited Kerio Valley. Rotich pledged his support to help restore security, adding that he would engage other leaders from neighbouring Baringo and West Pokot counties in exploring ways to achieve lasting peace. "Efforts must be made to bring this insecurity nonsense to an end. The government should do everything possible to ensure harmonious relations among different communities living in the valley," he said. Edited by A.N