Barristers are on strike across England and Wales in a long-running dispute over pay and conditions. Eight out of 10 cases at London's Old Bailey were disrupted by the walkout, barristers outside the court said. Justice Secretary Dominic Raab said the strikes will "delay justice", as courts already face a backlog of 58,000 cases. Kirsty Brimelow QC, deputy chair of the Criminal Bar Association, said a proposed 15% pay rise would not happen until the end of next year. By then, she told the BBC, it would be too late to help and would not do enough to stem the flow of junior barristers leaving the bar. Criminal barristers - who represent people in court - have been striking over legal aid payments. Under the legal aid system, the government pays for barristers to ensure suspects who can't afford lawyers are properly advised and represented. The government sets pay rates for barristers doing legal aid work. Dozens of barristers have been rallying outside the Old Bailey in their robes and wigs, as two murder trials at the court - one involving a teenage suspect - were unable to get under way. Others have been striking outside a number of high-profile courts, including Birmingham, Manchester, Cardiff and Bristol Crown Courts. Those joining picket lines have been warned by the most senior judge in England and Wales, The Lord Chief Justice Lord Burnett, that they could face disciplinary proceedings for misconduct if they don't turn up to court. Downing Street urged barristers to agree to the proposed 15% pay rise, which a spokesperson said would see a typical barrister earn around £7,000 more a year. But Ms Brimelow, speaking outside Manchester Crown Court, told the BBC the system had run on "good will" for a long time, including throughout the pandemic, with junior barristers working "ridiculous hours." She said the issue had been "caused by government, not by barristers." The strikes are intended to span four weeks, starting with walkouts on Monday and Tuesday and increasing by one day each week until a five-day strike from Monday 18 July to Friday 22 July. Junior barristers are working for a "pittance" - and sometimes for nothing at all if cases are adjourned, barrister and author Chris Daw told BBC News. He said that the 15% pay rise proposed by the government would not "touch the sides" and will be "wiped out by inflation" by the time it comes into effect. If nothing changes, he said strike action could go on until August "or beyond". The number of lawyers working in criminal justice - both barristers who appear before judges in courts and solicitors who instruct them - has declined over the last decade, as many say they cannot make a living when they take on cases funded by legal aid. Some 40% of junior criminal barristers left the profession in one year and more than a quarter of specialist criminal barristers - around 300 - quit in the last five years, according to the CBA. The Law Society has mapped the loss of criminal solicitors nationwide. There were 567 criminal trials, including 60 sexual offence cases, unable to go ahead last year as there were no barristers to prosecute and defend them, according to Ms Brimelow. And as of the end of April, there was a backlog of 58,271 cases, according to HM Courts and Tribunal Service. A shortage of barristers is causing "increasing misery to victims and those accused", as they are sometimes left waiting for years CBA chairman Jo Sidhu QC said. Mr Raab said the strikes were "regrettable" and only 43.5% of CBA members voted for the "most disruptive option". More than 81% of the 2,055 CBA members who cast their vote supported industrial action, and 53.4% of those also voted to refuse new cases and "return work" - stepping in and picking up court hearings for other colleagues. The strike follows the three days of industrial action on Britain's railway network last week -the largest of its kind in 30 years.