Fresh from winning the Christie Sevens, Strathmore Leos face Impala, Homeboyz and Mombasa in the Driftwoods Sevens set for June 18-19 in Mombasa. The varsity side will be renewing their rivalry with both sides having beaten Impala 36-0 in the pool stages at Christie Sevens and beaten Homeboyz 15-10 to qualify for the final in the Kabeberi Sevens Head coach Louis Kisia termed the pool tricky for his charges and said they will take one game at a time. “This will be a tough pool considering the quality of both Homeboyz and Impala. Mombasa will also want to prove a point considering they will be playing at home. On our side, we want to maintain our Christie Sevens performance and win,” said Kisia. Pool 'B' will see defending champions KCB seek to bounce back when they face Kabras, Daystar Falcons and Pirates. Head coach Dennis Mwanja will also be expecting to have Kenya Sevens players for the event. "The national team players are back and we will see if they are available for selection to bolster our squad and give us an opportunity of defending our title,” added Mwanja. Menengai Oilers, who have finished third in the two opening tournaments, face Quins, Nakuru and Blak Blad in Pool C. Oilers cach Gibson Weru said he hopes to have star winger Davis Nyaundi fit for the leg after sustaining an injury during the Kabeberi Sevens "Nyaundi had an injury on his arm and we hope the two-week break will help him recover for the event in Mombasa,” said Weru. The former Kenya Sevens playmaker says they have set a target of getting to the final in Momabasa. “We have been to two semifinals and our next traget should be to qualify for the final and win,” said Weru. Western Bulls headline Pool 'D' and take on Mwamba, Nondies and Zetech University. The top two teams in each pool qualify for the quarterfinals while the teams that finish third and fourth drop to the classification fixtures. Standings: Strathmore 41, KCB 41, Oilers 34, Homeboyz 30, Mwamba 26, Quins 20, Western Bulls 20, Daystar Falcons 17, Kabras 15 , Nakuru 15.