The electoral commission has cleared eight candidates for  the Siaya woman representative seat. The seat has attracted  Stellah  Adero  Ayimba ( MDG), Dr Christine Ombaka ( ODM), Beth  Aber  Dundee ( KNC), Pamela  Auma Ongoma (UDA), Caroline  Adhiambo (independent), Mildred  Ochieng Otieno (independent ) Maslister  Anyango Oudia(Kanu) and Emma Akinyi Ogola of Maendeleo Democratic Party. Aber Dundee is seeking the seat for the second time  having lost the contest in the last election to the incumbent. Although Siaya is considered an ODM zone, the party is facing a stiff challenge from the  MDG candidate Sellah Ayimba. MDG is one of the affiliate parties within Azimio One Kenya Alliance whose presidential candidate is Raila Odinga. Party leader and Ugenya MP David Ochieng has been vigorously campaigning for Raila and Senator James Orengo who is the ODM candidate for Siaya governor. Ochieng withdrew his support for Nicholas  Gumbo, Orengo's main challenger, in a strategy to recapture his seat and endear the MDG candidate Ayimba to the Siaya electorate. Most candidates eying various seats in the county are hoping to reap  from the fallout resulting from the protracted ODM primaries. Party stalwarts,  including Raila, have been pushing for six-piece voting pattern in ODM strongholds but this strategy appears to be a hard sell . For instance,  ODM candidate Christine Ombaka has encountered hostile reception in most of her campaign rallies in the county. During the presentation of nomination papers by Alego Usonga ODM candidate  Samuel Atandi and Senate candidate Oburu Odinga in Siaya town,  Ombaka and Governor Cornel Rasanga were booed by a section of the crowd. Ayimba of MDG, who is a newcomer, is Ombaka' s main challenger in the race. The former radio journalist of 18 years is giving the incumbent a run for her money. She's riding  popularity she gained as a radio presenter for various local stations to push her campaigns and is popular with the youth. In her manifesto,  Ayimba has promised to focus on roads and infrastructure,  health, education and youth and women empowerment. "I will lobby for the tarmacking of all major roads and gravelling of all access roads to various markets " she told the Star on Saturday. The other candidates have also been promising change. Ombaka has served in the position for two terms. She has been asking the voters in Siaya to give her another term to complete development projects she has initiated since 2013. She has been focusing on women and youth empowerment and has used the affirmative funds her office receives to construct markets across the county. Ombaka has also used her mobilisation network to organise harambees for various women's groups who are in small scale businesses to boost their ventures. She is banking on her party ODM 's popularity to propel her to a third term. Edited by Henry Makori