Deputy President William Ruto has assured Mitumba traders that his government will legislate laws to protect them and other small scale traders from exploitation should he win the August election. The DP said the second hand clothes business is not a threat to Kenya's textile industry as the two sectors serve different segments of society. "My government will establish processes and systems that will see the establishment of textile factories here in Kenya, and also ensure the growth and expansion of the Mitumba trade," Ruto said. He spoke Tuesday when he met with representatives of Mitumba traders from Nairobi's Gikomba market. The meeting came a week after the Mitumba Consortium sought audience with the DP and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. This followed the leaders' insinuation that they would end the importation of second hand clothes under their presidency. The DP stated that his government and the Nairobi County government will build new modern markets with a reserved area for Mitumba traders. United Democratic Alliance presidential running mate candidate Rigathi Gachagua said Mitumba had given many Kenyans dignity. "Before Mitumba, many Kenyans at the bottom of the pyramid used to be in rags and near nakedness," he said. ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi pointed out that the government should never take drastic action against any business without consulting the stakeholders. Nairobi Senator and UDA governor candidate Johnson Sakaja said that the perennial fires in Gikomba are engineered to displace the traders. The senator pledged to repossess grabbed land in Gikomba currently in the hand of some government agencies. Sakaja asked the Deputy President to declare the over 16 acres of public land in Gikomba and gazette it as an open air market. Susan Kemunto, who spoke on behalf of the traders, said they are seeking government protection for their Mitumba business is just like other businesses. She raised issue with the heavy taxes levied to traders by KRA at the port of Mombasa saying it was forcing many traders to rely on shy-locks for loans. Ruto said that his government will ease credit access for small traders and establish a Sh50 billion fund to help the business community to grow.