Homa Bay governor hopeful Evans Kidero unveiled his running mate as he got cleared by IEBC to vie for the seat. Kidero revealed the former Homa Bay public service board chairman Elijah Kodo as his running mate before the county IEBC returning officer Fredrick Apopa. Apopa cleared Kidero on Sunday. The governor candidate had kept people waiting despite supporters piling pressure on him to name the person he would work with. He waited up to the last minute to name Kodo when he was presenting papers to IEBC. Kodo resigned from public service board in February to contest Karachuonyo MP seat on ODM ticket. He, however, resigned from the party in protest after incumbent MP Adipo Okuome was controversially declared winner during nominations. Since he left ODM, he has silently been campaigning for Kidero and consolidating support from Rachuonyo region. “Today I unveil my running mate Elijah Kodo. He will help me undertake the task Homa Bay people will give us after voting,” Kidero said. Speaking at Homa Bay Youth Polytechnic ground after being cleared, Kidero said he never wanted to reveal the name of his running mate early to avoid opponents from meddling in their affairs. The former Nairobi governor said he did not want to face what faced Siaya governor candidate Nicholas Gumbo. Gumbo’s former running mate Charles Owino quit after being recalled to the National Police Service. “I knew the axe that befell Gumbo was coming to us. But I thank my supporters for helping to keep our political enemies at bay,” he added. Kidero expressed confidence that they will win the governor seat. He said his clearance has given residents an opportunity to choose the leadership they want after Governor Cyprian Awiti retires. The former governor said he has adequate experience in leadership and stands a better chance of transforming Homa Bay. Kidero further said he would revamp tourism sector by improving roads leading to Ruma National Park and Simbi tourist centre. He said he will prioritise on healthcare service. Kidero is using capsules (medicine) as his symbol and Homa Bay 'Manyien' (New Homa Bay) as his slogan. “I do not want to speak about my competitors, but I know I am better than them. It is up to Homa Bay people to confirm on elections day,” he said. Kidero has lined up an eight-point campaign agenda that he expects to deliver if elected as governor. Roads and energy also forms his campaigns messages. He said his administration will ensure industries, including fish and sugar processing plants, are built to create jobs for youth. “Education is the foundation of everything. My government will upgrade early year’s education centres across the county to offer the best foundation for our children,” he said. Kidero also opposed six-piece campaigns system, arguing that it will deny residents an opportunity to elect representatives that will change their lives. He however continues to drum up support for Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Presidential candidate Raila Odinga.  (edited by Amol Awuor)