Armed police officers stopped a second attempt by more than 1,000 squatters to invade part of Mark Too’s 25,000-acre estate in Eldoret. Squatters including women and children had arrived at the farm on Tuesday with their belongings ready to settle. But  police in a Land Cruiser arrived and chased them away. It was the second eviction in a week. Uasin Gishu police chief Ali Gitionga says there are no court orders allowing the squatters to occupy the land. “We will not allow an illegal invasion of private property unless we are served with a court," Gitonga said. Chairman of the squatters Benjamin Cherono said, however, they stormed the land following a High Court ruling giving them approval to map out a section of he land. “In fact, we will sue the police for contempt of court because we got orders to survey and occupy the land,” Cherono said. The squatters are demanding part of the land after they won a case against Too’s family over ownership of the land last year. The family has appealed. Last week there was drama at the farm near the Eldoret International Airport after armed police officers stormed the agricultural land. They arrested a surveyor who was carrying out subdivision of the land for the  squatters. Gitonga says those found trespassing will be arrested and prosecuted. He has asked the squatters to keep off the area. Cherono insisted, however, the police should provide them with security to enforce the court order allowing takeover of the land. Too's family has appealed the High Court ruling. The squatters claim that security teams had sided with Too’s family despite the court order in place. “We served the police with the orders and it’s unfortunate that they have decided to disobey the court. They should help to help to enforce courts orders and not oppress poor squatters," Cherono said. Cherono said they served the OCS, OCPD and county police commander with the court orders and requested security to enforce them. Too, who was popularly known as “Bwana Dawa” during the Kanu era,  died on December 31, 2016. He was buried on part of the land that is not being claimed by the squatters. The High Court ruling last year awarded the squatters 24,000 acres while Too’s family retained only 67 acres of the land, only a fraction of Too's vast estate. Gitonga said the court ruling did not indicate that officers were to provide security for survey of the vast land as claimed by the squatters. "We cannot as officers enforce non-existent orders. However mit is our duty to protect the lives and property of all Kenyans”, Gitonga said. He said the action by the squatters was illegal. (Edited by V. Graham)