Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah has said abolishing the boda boda industry will be among the first changes he will initiate if elected president on August 9. Wajackoyah who was speaking in Busia town on Saturday said, under his administration, he will prioritise economically empowering the boda boda riders by ensuring they are employed in marijuana farms. The presidential candidate who has vowed to legalise marijuana in Kenya if he clinches the presidency said the riders will be allowed to cultivate and export bhang to boost their incomes. According to him, the crop would generate a lot of money giving the boda boda riders access to a wide range of activities through which they will create wealth. "They will be at the forefront cultivating and exporting bhang to generate millions of money for the country," he said. He said it puzzles him that boda boda riders in Kenya have continued to wallow in poverty at a time the country can legalise marijuana production, "an avenue through which the majority of Kenyans can generate income." He said the boda boda riders will be absorbed in actualising his 24-hour economy initiative, but not through ferrying passengers on motorbikes. “We shall not need boda bodas on our roads because there will be nobody to carry since most Kenyans will be millionaires with money we will generate through bhang exportation,” he said. He urged Kenyans to support his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta for them to realize  “real change”. In addition to commercialising marijuana, Wajackoyah said his government will also introduce a 24-hour economy with Kenyans working for four days per week. “There will be three working shifts from 8 am-4 pm, 4 pm- 11 pm and 11 pm-8 am. The move will create more jobs for the unemployed youth and boost the country’s economy because we would have widened the tax base,” Wajackoyah said. He said the culture of handouts which many Kenyans are getting used to is contributing to the current skyrocketing foreign debt, which currently stands at Sh8.4 trillion. On corruption, the Roots presidential candidate noted that those implicated in the vice would face the full force of the law. His running mate Justina Wambui said Kenyans should support their State House bid to realise development.