Kenya Ports Authority left attacker Dennis Omollo is seeking to guide the porters to their maiden national men's volleyball league title before sorting out his future. There's growing interest from overseas for the 25-year-old player with teams from Oman, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia queuing for his signature. However,  the burly attacker doesn't want distractions in his mission to become a champion with Sammy Mulinge's charges. "There are a lot of offers on the table but my agent will assess all of them before we agree on the best move for me. For now, my professional future has to wait as we focus on dethroning the General Service Unit of the title," Omollo reckons. "As part of our strategy to win the title, the leadership of the team requested the management to allow us to join a residential camp before we head to the playoffs. This will enhance cohesion and team bonding and give us a competitive edge over our rivals." The Siaya native became the first Kenyan left attacker to ply trade overseas when he signed a month-long deal with Majees Volleyball Club of Oman in March. The buccaneering hard-hitting attacker returned back to the country a better player and helped KPA to the top of the standings with 34 points with a playoff slot secured ahead of the final leg this weekend. "My preference is UAE because the game in the Middle East is on another level. Playing in Oman has taught me about sacrifice, determination and the hard work top players put in training. He went on: "My ball reception has improved but my attacking power still needs to be worked on." Omollo is expected to graduate next month with a Bachelor of Technology in Industrial Microbiology and Biotechnology degree from the Technical University of Mombasa. Omollo joined KPA in 2017. He was part of the Wafalme team to the Africa Nations  Championship in Rwanda in September last year, where Kenya registered a historic win against Egypt in the group stage. The towering player also represented KPA at the African Club Championship in the last two years.