Politicians have been urged to popularise their economic blueprints and development agendas instead of spewing hate, inciting violence and mudslinging. Speakers at a peace meeting in Njoro Sub-County in Nakuru said inflammatory speeches by politicians were likely to create animosity among communities and cause violence similar to what was experienced during the 2007/2008 Post-Election Violece (PEV). Calvin Muga, a Project Officer at MidRift Human Rights Network termed the current trend of politicians trading insults as very unfortunate and urged the relevant departments and commissions to take action. “Nakuru had maintained peace and security in the past two elections and was even struck off the list of political violence hotspots and it is unfortunate that it has been named among insecure places once again,” he said. Muga blamed politicians for the drawback and cautioned youths against being used to cause chaos during and after the August 9 General Elections. Njoro which was part of the larger Molo Constituency has experienced violence every election year since 1992 with the infamous tribal clashes save for 2002, 2013 and 2017. The area that lies along the Nakuru-Narok border has continued to experience conflicts as four communities fight over resources such as water, land and pasture. Addressing women, youth and People Living with Disabilities political candidates during a community peace dialogue meeting organised by Midrift through the Kenya Electoral Conflicts Mitigation and Civic Support Programme (ECCES) program, Muga said peace was vital for the elections. He said similar meetings had been held in Naivasha, Nakuru Town West and other parts of Nakuru which were likely to experience violence. “We are offering civic education to political candidates through these community peace dialogues while at the same time giving voice to women, youth and PLWDs,” he said A local leader, Samuel Karanja said the peace dialogues were important because they brought different communities together and created trust and harmony.