Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka was named alongside Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi as Ruto's pointmen in Western. “We are left with less than 80 days to election, that is why I am moving from one county to the other to look for votes,” Lusaka said. The speaker, who seeks to recapture the Bungoma governor seat spoke on Tuesday at Bumula IEBC offices where he went to present his papers. Lusaka who was accompanied by Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga said he will deliver votes to William Ruto's basket. Mabonga said Azimio La Umoja has sensed defeat. He said Azimio doesn't have an agenda to tell Kenyans, instead their work is to accuse the Deputy President in every rally they attend. “Sometimes let's be sincere and make possible promises to Kenyans. Raila is giving pledges that will never happen in Kenya. He has been in politics for a very long time and there's nothing Western Kenya can smile about," Mabonga said. The legislator said they will show Azimio at the ballot, that they don’t have a say in Kenyan politics. “Raila has betrayed our sons both at the National Assembly and Senate, by snatching the little positions they held,” he said. Lusaka further said Kenya Kwanza leaders have been divided into regions to ensure the country is locked. He said he will be traversing the entire Western region looking for votes and asking residents to back Ruto's bid to be the fifth president of Kenya. “I am a national leader and I will take the advantage to move around the country to look for votes. I have friends in the Senate and others whom I must engage to help us solicit for votes,” the speaker said. Lusaka further faulted the current Bungoma administration led by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati for failing. He said during his tenure the county used to perform at the top whereas it has currently been dragged to last. “Bungoma is in the wrong hands. It's my humble appeal to you that on August 9th vote wisely to avoid such embarrassment. I know that in 2017 you voted me out. However, being the first governor I know what to do to take Bungoma to the next level,” Lusaka said. Mabonga said he will only support a candidate who has good will and cooperates with him in votes. “I take this opportunity to ask my Bumula people to support Lusaka in recapturing the governor’s seat,” he said. The legislator urged residents to pick leaders who will bring development in the region adding that his track record speaks for itself. Mabonga said during his five-year tenure, he has built permanent classrooms, science laboratories, supported bright but needy students and funded boda boda Sacco’s within Bumula. “Science is performed poorly, the labs will help students boost the practical aspects,” he said. The legislator said Bumula residents should to re- elect him to complete the projects he started. He however asked other contestants to stick to the IEBC rules and contact peaceful campaigns devoid of election malpractices like voter bribery. “We have been advised by the IEBC to stick to the law and and contact peaceful campaigns,” Mabonga said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)