Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja was on Friday arrested, according to his lawyers. But the police dismissed the claims, saying he had presented himself to the DCI officers to hand in a letter which sought clarification on his remarks linking him to a global crime syndicate. He is said to have presented the letter to the head of investigations John Gachomo’s office. But his lawyer, Kamotho Adrian, said the Senator was arrested by four DCI officers from his office at Riverside where he had just concluded a campaign meeting with the Kamba community. The counsel team claimed they were temporarily blocked from accessing the DCI headquarters where the Senator was being held. “Yes, he has been arrested from Riverside and we are outside the gate after being denied access to accompany our client. They are taking the political adventure too far,” Kamotho told the Star. They were however allowed access after a few minutes of push and pull. Kamotho said the DCI officers never explained why they were arresting Sakaja. “Wherever they are with our client( Sakaja), they cannot question him without the presence of his lawyers,” Kamotho added. But the police have claimed that the senator had presented himself to the DCI officers to hand in a letter which sought clarification on his remarks linking him to a global crime syndicate. He is said to have presented the letter to the head of investigations John Gachomo’s office. Gachomo denied Sakaja had been arrested. Sakaja had earlier in the day dared Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti to arrest him following reports that detectives are pursuing him for alleged involvement in forgery. This comes after Daily Nation newspaper claimed that Kinoti on Thursday labelled Sakaja as a person of interest in an ongoing inquiry into an alleged global crime ring. He wrote to Kinoti seeking clarification on his remarks. Through Mutuma Gichuru and Associates Advocates, the legislator wanted Kinoti to own or disown remarks attributed to him by Daily Nation which insinuated that he is a fraud. "We note that this publication comes amid the numerous allegations against our client and the malicious spread and/ or distribution of propaganda against our client herein," reads part of the letter to Kinoti. More follows...