Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has been appointed vice president of the African Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development in a meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Outa, who is the outgoing Kisumu county Senator will serve for 3 years on the APFPD board even after announcing that he won't defend his seat in the August polls. “I am delighted to have been elected through the delegates system to become the vice president of this prestigious outfit,” he said on Thursday, moments after being elected. During the General Assembly of APFPD that brings together 47 countries, a Ghanaian was elected the chairman of the board. Launched in December 2012, APFPD aims to exchange and coordinate action in support of the International Conference on Population and Development and to ensure parliaments assist in implementing the agenda. APFPD is also adopting initiatives in population policies and harmonisation of African legislation on sexual and reproductive health and rights. “This Forum is driving the population and development agenda on the African continent,” he said. Senator Outa announced that the forum is working on modalities to set up an office in Ethiopia, the headquarters of the African Union. He said the new board where he will ensure the office runs smoothly as it articulates issues on population and development. “There will be jobs for the people of Africa, we will soon set up an office and hire a team to coordinate the duties,” he said. Among the positions to be filled includes the executive director, information director, office administrator, ICT and drivers among others. He said even after leaving the Senate, he will be preoccupied with more work at the continental level. “My work has been cut out and even after taking a leave in politics I will still serve the people but now in a different capacity,” he said. Outa was recently awarded the First Class Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He is also the current vice chairman of the Senate Committee on National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations. (Edited by Tabnacha O)