Civil society organisations in Trans Nzoia have called on security agencies to heighten surveillance on political violence. Their chairman Kefa Were said politicians are financing troublemakers. “We are seeing the emergence of armed gangs who are trained and financed by politicians,” Were said. “Such politicians should be arrested, charged and disqualified from contesting because they are violating elections’ Code of Conduct and laws of Kenya.” Were, the director of the Centre for Restoration of Human Rights Democracy, asked politicians not to manipulate and exploit unemployed youths to achieve their selfish interests. “I dare the politicians using unemployed and idle youths in perpetrating violence to first mobilise their own sons and daughters to cause mayhem in political rallies,” he said. “If you cannot use your children, why should you use unemployed youths to disturb peace in other candidates’ rallies?” Were praised the launch of a forensic laboratory at the DCI headquarters. “CS Matiang’i should not play bipartisan politics," he said. "Instead he should work towards ensuring that Kenyans enjoy peace. We are also happy that DCI now have a forensic laboratory. We hope the lab will make access to justice more efficient, it should not be there as a flower.” His counterpart Richard Masanja condemned incidents of political intolerance in the country and asked the electorate to accommodate divergent views. “If you have a contrary opinion to that of your neighbour, the best thing to do is to accommodate him or her," he said. "Resorting to violence is uncouth and criminal in nature; remember we need Kenya even after August 9.” Masanja called for the redeployment of police officers who had overstayed in their stations and posts for alleged involvement in extortion, abetting crime and harassment of residents. The officers have come under criticism for protecting criminal gangs. These include the notorious Bogi Mawe, which has for the past five months been harassing, mugging and stealing from residents whose cries have gone unattended. Masanja alleged that proceeds from such crimes are being given to some of the officers. Trans Nzioa West subcounty police commander Peter Lobolia denied the allegations. Speaking to the Star, the police boss said investigations into the allegations had begun and that anyone found engaging in illegal activities will be dealt with accordingly.