The University of Nairobi has been a victim of several reforms initiated by the government, the vice chancellor has said. VC Stephen Kiama attributed the financial crisis to reforms that were implemented in the institutions of higher learning across the country. Kiama was speaking during the pre-launch of the UoN Foundation which was attended by several alumni and well wishers. They include ICT CS Joe Mucheru, CAS Sara Rutto, Ezekiel Mutua, Betty Gikonyo, Julia Ojiambo, Isaac Awuondo, Fred Ngatia  and Chancellor Vijoo Rattansi. “The economic potential of Kenya and Africa is huge and can only be achieved through cohorts of trained manpower,” Kiama said. He clarified that the new funding method largely contributed to crippling universities financially. “The reforms made by government are what informed most of the changes that we had to implement in the university,” Kiama said. In the new funding method, Differentiated Unit Cost institutions are allocated budgets based on the number of undergraduate students they register for the regular programme. This is also in consideration with the kinds of courses the students take. Under the model, the government is expected to cater for 80 per cent of the unit cost while the remaining 20 per cent is borne by students and institutions. “The new funding model has seen universities struggle with finances because the money we used to receive was now reduced,” Kiama said. According to Kiama, UoN used to receive a capitation of Sh6.2 billion per year, but since DUC was introduced, the capitation was reduced to Sh4.5 billion. “We support the funding formula that was being used previously, it was favourable to universities,” he added. Another reform which Kiama blamed was the reduction of university entry cut off points to determine students who would be enrolled under the government sponsored programme. The VC said previously, institutions would reap big from self sponsored students. “And then came the reduction of cut off points and now universities no longer enrol most students from the parallel programmes,” he added. Rattansi confirmed that all money contributed to the foundation would be spent effectively and for the right purpose. “You can count on the hawk-eyed vigilance of the trustees to ensure our fund raising effort shall not amount to naught and that all treasures collected shall be grown,” Rattansi said. The financial crisis has seen the institution set up the UoN foundation as an endowment fund for back up. UoN Foundation is anchored on effective management of alumni relations, endowment management and asset commercialisation. The board of trustees includes Chancellor Rattansi, VC Kiama, Narendra Raval, CS Margaret Kobia, CS Mucheru, Agnes Odhiambo, Mourice Makoloo and Counsel Fred Ngatia. 