The National Cereals and Produce Board says it has so far sold 210,000 bags of subsidised fertiliser to farmers in the country. The board is focusing on supplying top dressing fertiliser that is in high demand. Board spokesman Titus Maiyo said they are working with suppliers to address shortages of the commodity, which has caused an outcry from farmers. Demand outstrips supply so fertiliser is delivered to depots as soon as it is purchased, then it is snapped up. The government has set aside Sh5.7 billion for the subsidised fertiliser and the amount is yet to be exhausted. NCPB has admitted it is short of subsidised fertiliser, especially top dressing, causing an outcry from farmers in Rift Valley. “We have not exhausted the subsidies programme but we are facing challenges getting adequate supplies, hence, the shortages reported," Maiyo said. He assured farmers the board is making all efforts to ensure that they get fertiliser at all depots. “We urge the farmers to understand the situation we are faced with. We release all stocks as soon as we receive them from the suppliers,” Maiyo said. More than 30,000 farmers have so far benefited from subsidised fertiliser in North Rift where many are still planting maize following the start of the rains. Most farmers access the fertiliser from the NCPB depots in Eldoret, Kitale, Kapenguria, Nandi and other areas. Some farmers stormed the NCPB depot at Turbo on Monday, saying officials were selling the fertiliser selectively and at night, causing most of them to miss out. The farmers used their own padlocks to locked the stores at the depot, demanding an explanation of why the commodity was being sold selectively. Maiyo said, however, they had investigated and established no fertiliser was sold to anyone at night. “As an institution we operate by the law and during normal hours. We also ensure the highest possible openness and integrity in our operations,” Maiyo said. Director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo and NCPB regional manager for North Rift Gilbert Rotich met farmers at Turbo to discuss how best to distribute the limited supplies. “Most farmers are worried the shortages will reduce production because many cannot afford fertiliser in the open market," Menjo said. The top dressing fertiliser, especially CAN and Urea, sell at an average of Sh6,000 per 50kg bag in the open market. Subsidised fertiliser costs half. “Most farmers are rushing to get fertiliser at the NCPB depots because it’s cheaper and demand outstrips supplies,”Menjo said. “The board ensures balancing in all its supplies so farmers in all areas can benefit," Maiyo said. He said due to the current situation, supplies may not be adequate due to the high demand. Representative of small-scale farmers David Kiberenge said the government should also budget enough cash to store adequate supplies of fertiliser. Moiben MP Silas Tiren said the board should work with suppliers to increase availability of the commodity at its depots. He is chairman of the Parliament's Agriculture Committee. Companies supplying fertiliser to the NCPB include OCP Kenya, Fanisi, Maisha Minerals, Minjingu Mines and Baraka Limited. (Edited by V. Graham)