The Kenya Biovax Institute has announced the appointment of Michael Lusiola as the substantive chief executive. In a statement on Monday, KBI Board of directors said Lusiola term is effective June 2022. "Dr. Lusiola is a highly experienced, senior healthcare executive and pharmaceuticals business leader. He assumes office as CEO effective June 2022." “We are confident that, after a competitive recruitment process, we have found in Dr. Lusiola, a healthcare and business leader who will head the organization with distinction, scientific innovation, commercial business acumen and integrity,” Mugo Kibati, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Kenya BioVax Institute said. Lusiola will replace Rabera Kenyanya who has been acting CEO and Director General since December 2021. He brings a wealth of extraordinary medical-scientific knowledge and expertise as a dynamic and respected leader, having most recently worked as a VP in global clinical development(immunotherapies) at AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, UK and USA. Lusiola is pharmaceutical research and development business executive with over 20 years’ experience. The Kenya BioVax Institute board was inaugurated in December 2021 by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe. It was expected to begin vaccine production by April this year. In January KBI announced qualifications for the individual that would head the day to day operation of the institute. “The ideal candidate must have at least 12 years of demonstrable leadership experience in medicine, pharmaceutical production, manufacturing and marketing and innovation,” the board said in an advertisement. He or she must also hold a masters or PhD in a healthcare related field and recognised business or project management qualification. The board is headed by engineer Mugo Kibati while other directors include Sachen Chandaria, Shamim Chanzu, Dennis Rangi, Sam Kariuki, John Kiiru and an alternate to the Treasury CS. Currently, Kenya imports 70 per cent of her pharmaceutical requirements, including vaccines and other biological products.