Diary, I thought I had fudged up this whole dating thing and, boy, was I wrong. Last evening, I totally outdid myself. Before you judge me, I was very tired after receiving four ambulance loads of passengers at the hospital following a bad traffic accident on Ngong Road. The proper gentleman I am, I decided not to cancel my date with Angela. When I got to the restaurant, she wasn’t there. On my second glass of water, she called and said she was on her way but traffic was a mess. I ordered some wine as I waited. I was polishing off my third glass when she arrived, looking even prettier than her pictures on social media. “I’m so sorry, Tom,” she said. “There was a terrible road accident on Ngong Road and they still haven’t cleared it yet.” “I know,” I said, “I caused it.” She was aghast. “You did? How?” “No, no! I meant to say ‘I know who caused it.’ He was my patient at the hospital.” She exhales. “You scared me for a moment there. You’re staring. Do I have something on my face?” “Yes. Angelic beauty. Your mother must’ve known you’d look like an angel when she named you.” She blushed. “Actually, I was named after my grandma, but thank you.” The wine starting to take its toll, I excused myself to visit the men’s room. “Please, feel free to order anything you fancy,” I told Angela. As I was peeing, I suddenly got quite angry. After sacrificing my rest, my date had the guts to stand me up. I’ll show her, I decided. Women are a dime a dozen. I’ll get me another one in no time flat. Back in the dining area, I saw a pretty woman eating all by herself. I staggered over to the table. “Hey there lonely lady. My name is Microsoft. Can I crash at your place tonight?” She smiled, though she looked confused. “What are you doing?” I took the empty seat across from her, grinning like an idiot. “I’m trying to pick you up, silly. My date stood me up, and you look so fine I wanna rearrange the alphabet and put “U” and “I” together.” She stood up and hit me across the face with her purse. “Ouch!” I massaged my cheek. “What do you have in that purse, rocks? And what the hell you do that for?” “It’s me. Angela. You’re trying to pick up your date, knucklehead.” I can’t even remember how I got home.