The creation of jobs, business opportunities and support for education are among the things Kenyan youth want political leaders to prioritise, a survey shows. This was according to a Kenya youth manifesto released by The Youth Congress, which details many other needs and expectations young people want addressed in the August general election. The Youth Congress is an NGO that provides young people with a platform to articulate their issues. It explores opportunities for participation and leadership to effectively address their interests, concerns, aspirations and engage them in social, economic and political processes for development. The manifesto survey report released on Tuesday offers a comprehensive insight into the interests of Kenyan youth in the general election. It was drafted by young people after collecting views from around the country and from diverse backgrounds. The entity collected views from young people, receiving hundreds of responses and suggestions from a series of youth-led engagements held in all the 47 counties around the country. “The manifesto represents the voices of millions of young people across Kenya,” The Youth Congress founding director Raphael Obonyo said. He said the message the youth want to get across is clear and they expect their issues to be on the ballot. They urged politicians to pay keen attention to the challenges affecting them. The report said the major factors that are likely to influence the youth vote will be the integrity of the candidates, support for matters affecting the youth and manifestos. “From every corner of the country, young people are crying for help, demanding that leaders give youth issues keen attention,” Obonyo said. The Youth Congress, he said, has been encouraging young people around the country to raise their voices and tell politicians to take youth issues seriously. Kenya has a large number of youthful people, with 80 per cent of the population being under 35 years, while those aged 18 and 35 years make up about 40 per cent of the total population. “In 2017, the youth accounted for more than half (51 per cent) of the 19.6 million registered voters and in 2019, as per the census figures, young people of voting age constituted 14.6 million or a third  of the country’s 47.6 million people,” the survey report read. "Despite their numbers, the political class often tells them what they will do for them without finding out the needs of the youth." The survey was conducted between May 1 and 17, 2022 and at least 995 youth expressed their views through a Google ® based form. Edited by A.N