The Commission for University Education (CUE) on Friday told Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja to present evidence that he attended Team University in Uganda. Addressing the media, Professor Chacha Nyaigoti requested Sakaja to present to the commission his graduation photos, his application for the course, the letter of admission from the University and evidence of registration, including his Student ID, to prove he actually studied there. Chacha said that the commission also needs the Credit Accumulation and Transfer System (ATS), the course description and the course Units taken during Sakaja's time at Team. "We have written to Sakaja to provide the transcripts, examinations schedules, graduation booklet that has his name on it and receipts for; application fee, tuition fees, graduation and convocation," Chacha said. Further, the CUE boss said they require the names of lecturers that taught him some of the courses as proof. The aforementioned evidence items are to be submitted by Sakaja on Monday, June 20 at 10 am. Chacha said the commission had written to National Council for Higher Education- Uganda (NCHE) and Team University seeking further information regarding the senator's degree. He further notes that as a commission, they will not be influenced in its decision by politicians or any powerful individuals. "CUE works independently in carrying out its mandate as provided in the law... Any Allegations that the Head of State is involved in any way in these ongoing investigations are false and malicious and must be treated with the contempt they deserve," he said. Chacha said on June 6, 2022, Sakaja applied for recognition of his foreign degree qualification (same-day service) with the Commission. He submitted the documents in accordance with the Standards for Recognition and Equation of qualifications. On the same day, CUE wrote to NCHE for confirmation whether Team University was accredited and if it offered the course Sakaja claimed he took. "NCHE confirmed that that Team University is recognized and that the degree programme is accredited. Further NCHE, responded that Team University had confirmed that Sakaja Johnson was enrolled for the Bachelor of Science in Management (External) and graduated on October 21, 2016." This response prompted the Commission to issue the recognition certificate. However, trouble began when CUE received complaints from the public regarding the authenticity of Sakaja's credentials. The CUE boss said during the letter issuance, that it was made clear that it could be revoked in the event that it establishes any reason that makes the award in question ineligible for recognition and/or equation. "The Commission is not accountable for the authenticity of the certificate or the identity of the certificate holder presented for recognition and/or equation," Chacha said.