@ppcheti Lamu youth have been asked to take advantage of scholarship opportunities offered by the High Commission of India to pursue their studies in the Asian country. The scholarships are offered by the Indian Council Cultural Relations for undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes at Indian universities and colleges. Speaking when he toured Lamu on Tuesday, the High Commissioner of India to Kenya Dr Virander Paul said the scholarships are available every year and the Indian government will collaborate with Lamu county in identifying deserving students who will benefit from the programme. "Scholarships for undergraduates, postgraduates, and PhD students are available every year. We will collaborate with the Lamu county government to identify deserving students who will be able to take advantage of these opportunities at Indian universities and colleges." During the courtesy call, the Indian official met with Lamu executive members led by Paul Thairu of Education, Ahmed Hemed of Lands, Dismas Pole of Trade and county secretary John Mburu. He said India is also exploring probable areas of collaboration with the Lamu County government in important sectors such as education, health, agriculture, culture and capacity building. “There is a lot we can do to better the lives of our people through such collaborations and make life better and education and health care affordable,” he said. Lamu county secretary John Mburu welcomed the High Commissioner's visit, saying Lamu and India have a long history together, as Lamu is believed to be the first stop for Indian, Arab, and Portuguese traders who arrived in East Africa a millennium ago. “We are rekindling history, many years ago, indigenous Lamu traders used to sail to India, Zanzibar, Madagascar, and all these Indian Ocean ports to trade. Also the Island of Lamu was visited by many sailors and travellers in the early years of this island’s settlement contributing to its rich diversity in culture,” Mburu said. He said with the presence and operationalisation of the Lamu Port, it is the perfect time to revive a mutually beneficial collaboration between Lamu and India.   -Edited by SKanyara