Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has asked coastal people to reject Azimio presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga because "he has nothing to offer to the region". He said Raila’s coalition refused to sign a written agreement on how coastal people will benefit if he becomes president, unlike Deputy President William Ruto who signed a pact with Pamoja African Alliance party. He said Azimio refused to sign an agreement to resume port operations, revive the cashew nut and coconut industries, and address land injustices. Speaking at Water Grounds in Kilifi during Madaraka Day celebrations, Kingi said the coastal region will no longer be taken for a ride. “It is either you sign an agreement with us or we do not deal with you. Agreement or no votes.” he said. Kingi, who described Ruto as a transparent leader, said the agreement they signed with Kenya Kwanza clearly states how the land where squatters live will be bought and given back to the coastal people. The governor said out of all the presidential aspirants, it is only DP Ruto who does not make roadside declarations. “As a son from the coastal region, you all know that if I was in the Azimio la Umoja coalition, I would have been given a ministerial position if Raila becomes President,” he said. “However, how would a ministerial position help in addressing the squatters’ problems at the Coast?” Kingi urged residents to stop looking at the positions individual politicians are given and go for people who are ready to offer solutions to the issues affecting the region. The governor said Azimio is all about making Raila the president and has nothing to offer coastal people. “I do not care if I’m not offered a position in Kenya Kwanza, but if the coastal residents are given land, then I will be happy. I will also be happy if the cashew nut and the coconut sectors are revived and allocated billions of shillings every year,” Kingi said. The PAA leader said he would not have dumped Azimio la Umoja had they agreed to sign an agreement with the coastal people. PAA Kilifi governor candidate George Kithi said the time has come for residents to sit at the decision-making table. He thanked his party leader for initiating a coalition agreement with Kenya Kwanza. He said Kingi’s vision is to make sure the problems of the Coast are addressed and that the region is in government as a partner. “For the last 59 years, we have been supporting other political parties, but now it's time we all support PAA,” Kithi said. Former Malindi MP Willy Mtengo said they are ready to work with their UDA counterparts in Kilifi if they stop the sideshow and insults. Edited by A.N