Three Nyeri governor candidates cleared by IEBC over the weekend hit the ground running with campaign pledges to residents if elected. Senator Ephraim Maina of Jubilee promised to ensure his administration hits Sh1 billion revenue target. Maina, who was cleared on Sunday afternoon, said he will achieve the target without raising county charges and levies. This, he said, will be realised by sealing all corruption loopholes and digitising revenue collection. Other strategies will be through the creation of more job opportunities and coming up with policies that will make doing business in Nyeri town easier. Currently, Nyeri collects Sh860 million up from Sh600 million it was collecting five years ago. Also top on his priority list will be improving the condition of county hospitals, which he said lack drugs and other medical supplies. Maina was accompanied by his running mate Elizabeth Wamuyu, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, Senate candidate Priscilla Nyokabi and woman representative hopeful Njeri Njoori, all of Jubilee. “You know I am a Nyeri resident, an investor and a businessman so it is very important that we look beyond 2022 on how we are going to have the affairs of Nyeri managed,” Mucheru said. “From where I sit, it is clear that the senator, who is my great friend, can do big and better things for Nyeri." Mucheru said he was happy after his preferred presidential and governor candidates were cleared to run. Another candidate Peter Munyiri and his deputy Kamamia Murichu who are vying on Chama Cha Kazi were cleared on Saturday. Munyiri said, together with his running mate who is a pharmacist, they will prioritise the revitalisation of the health sector, job creation for the youth and equitable share of county resources. Murichu said they will revive the economy and establish pharmaceutical industries to promote good health. There is no pharmaceutical industry in Mt Kenya despite the high rate of non communicable diseases in the region, he said. “Our hospitals will never again be short of medicines because we will be manufacturing them in Nyeri for our people and even export excess to other counties,” he said. The incumbent Kahiga, who is vying on UDA said he will continue safeguarding the interests of the people and their resources if reelected. Kahiga was accompanied by his running mate Kinaniri Waroe and UDA senate candidate Wahome Wamatinga. They all appealed to their opponents to conduct peaceful and mature campaigns. TND aspirant Thuo Mathenge is still fighting for clearance after IEBC refused to clear him over what they termed as questionable academic credentials. Mathenge however faulted IEBC saying they based their judgment on credentials presented in 2013. (Edited Tabnacha O)