Power firms have been told to improve their storm response after Storm Arwen left more than one million homes in the UK without power last year, a report by the energy regulator has said. The storm brought severe wind, rain and snow across north-east England, Cumbria and Scotland at the end of November. Three people died as the storm lashed the UK with winds of up to 100mph. Ofgem boss Jonathan Brearley told power firms to "up your game" and "get ready for winter". Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, he said the companies were "not well prepared" for the storm. In future they should maintain and invest more in the network, provide clearer communication to customers about when they will be reconnected and be more imaginative about how they get people back on supply, he said. "This is a really tough time for customers right now, this is a market where everyone is having a difficult time," he added. "Every energy company that is working in this country needs to be working on behalf of their customers and that means big changes for the networks." The storm - which saw nearly 4,000 people in north-eastEngland and Scotland cut off from supply for more than a week - caused widespread damage, with high winds snapping or uprooting trees that fell onto overhead lines. The north east of Scotland, Dumfries and Galloway and the Scottish Borders were among the worst hit areas. Mr Brearley said the frequency of extreme weather events was only set to increase so it was really important that industry, and those involved more widely, learn from Storm Arwen to better respond in future. The report found: Its key recommendations included: It said three network operators - Northern Powergrid, Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks and Electricity North West - have paid nearly £30m in compensation to affected customers after Storm Arwen and have agreed to pay another £10.3m in "redress payments". Business and Energy Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said it was clear thousands of customers had been badly let down by electricity network companies. He said a new action plan would ensure better preparedness for future storms. An interim report by the Department of Business published in February criticised the response of the electricity firms as "unacceptable" at times. It said waiting times to contact operators were too high and criticised the length of power cuts.