Uasin Gishu county is installing CCTV cameras in Eldoret town central business district to enhance security and increase investment. The county says the cameras will increase investor confidence, prevent crime and increase business as the town aims to be elevated to city status. Trade executive Emily Kogos said the cameras were long overdue and will help monitor and regulate activities 24/7. “This is one measures by Governor Jackson Mandago’s administration to ensure Eldoret is safe for business and has the required equipment to ensure it attains city status," Kogos said. She said CCTC cameras would be installed on all major highways and strategic areas within the town. She said the move would help attract more investors and traders   in Eldoret town, spurring the county's economy. “We have a strong security team in our region and CCTV cameras will complement their work because it will be easier to prevent or detect crime in any part of the town," Kogo said. The county plans to instal more than 100 cameras in key areas. She said the county has extensively improved the business environment, which is improving at a fast rate. Mandago’s team said it has transformed Eldoret town into the best investment destination in the region in 10 years. The governor said Eldoret town continues to be investors' top choice because of the good business environment. The World Bank has also ranked Eldoret as one of the best investment hubs in Kenya concerning ease of doing business. The county has attracted more than 100 major new investments creating jobs for young people. While commissioning Olive City Plaza in Eldoret town's CBD recently, Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said the county was committed offering positive working environments to all investors, including new ones. “We have put in place all necessary facilities and services  to support investments including new ones. We have adequate land, water, electricity and the necessary support for those investing here,"Chemno said. Mandago's administration supports upcoming entrepreneurs through the Inua Biashara Fund and cooperative societies, Saccos and organised groups through the  Enterprise Development Fund. “The aim of two county funds operated is to make sure we support upcoming traders so they expand and create more jobs," Chemno said. (Edited by V. Graham)