Garissa county IEBC returning officer Abdulwahab Hussein on Friday urged residents to ensure that only people with integrity and who are politically neutral are recruited as returning officers and polling clerks. Hussein said the commission will take seriously the recruitment of returning officers, their deputies  and polling clerks to ensure people of integrity are the ones who will be picked. He was speaking during a conference on peaceful elections that was aimed at providing a platform for stakeholders in the electoral process to deliberate and lay strategies towards peaceful elections. “This is where you residents come in since you will tell us people with questionable character so that we can weed them out,” he said. He added, “the names of all those who will picked for the various posts will be displayed in public notice boards so that wananchi can go through them. If you they have an issues with any of the candidates please let us know when that time comes.” Hussein said there are individuals who are known to be campaign agents of certain candidates but want to be recruited by the IEBC for the sole purpose of manipulating results in favour of their preferred candidates. “This are the people were don’t want to have in the commission because they will compromise the credibility of the polls. We want to have people who are as neutral as possible,” he said. Hussein while acknowledging that the recruitment exercise was tedious and demanding, was however quick to add that the commission will do everything within its powers to ensure it delivers credible and verifiable elections. Garissa county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said going forward IEBC, NCIC, Office of Registrar of Political Parties, and EACC will be holding weekly meetings to ensure elections are peaceful. Cherutich warned candidates vying for various political seats that stern action will be taken against those violating the code of conduct they signed with the IEBC when they were cleared. “The candidates know very well what is expected of them given that they penned their signatures  on the code of conduct by the IEBC. Let us all cooperate and operate within the law,” he said. Leaders who spoke during the meeting raised concern over political intolerance, use of social media to incite communities against each other and campaigning past stipulated hours. Dubat Amey an elder called on the security apparatus to lead in apprehending those found violating the law. 