A Kilifi-based medical devices manufacturing firm has entered into a contract to supply medical equipment to the Pakistan government. On Tuesday, the firm Revital healthcare flagged off three consignments of more than three billion of the 0.5 ml vaccine syringes to Pakistan. Speaking during the flagging-off ceremony, Revital healthcare sales and marketing product development director Roveek Vora said the contract is valid for two years. "We have entered into a contract of two years with the Pakistan government for the consignments of the 0.5 ml  and 1 ml conventional vaccine syringes," Vora said. "[The syringes] are used for Covid-19, immunisation of babies and other kits like personal protective equipment and surgical face masks, among other healthcare kits that we manufacture." The firm is the only manufacturer of medical devices in Africa and one of the 60 certified manufacturers in the world. He said this comes amid improved relations between Kenya and the Pakistan government. The company gained popularity at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic by manufacturing of the Viral Transport Meia for the testing of the coronavirus. The company, however, said the Kenyan government needs to support local companies by buying from them. "We have been appealing to the Kenyan government for quite some time that we as local manufacturers need a lot of support," the director said. The firm estimates that the support will lead to the creation of more than 200 direct new jobs and 1,000 indirect jobs, out of which at least 80 per cent hired will be women. He added that the company started its operations in 2008 with just two products but has now expanded to more than 48, exporting products to 28 countries around the world. Vora said the firm is proud to be part of the global efforts to ensure Africans have access to life-saving vaccine syringes. High Commissioner for Pakistan government Saqlain Syedah said the demand for medical devices that protect lives against not just Covid-19, but also other infectious diseases like malaria will increase going forward. She referred to the partnership as crucial, saying it will improve further the relationship between the two countries in terms of healthcare.  (edited by Amol Awuor)