Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri has now urged the people of Nakuru to vote for whoever they deem fit for any elective seat in the August 9 polls. The outspoken leader in a press address on Thursday said Nakuru county residents should not be forced to support a particular candidate. In an apparent reaction to a social media banter against him, Ngunjiri said he was free to relate with the incumbent governor, Lee Kinyanjui, and any other leader regardless of their political parties. Addressing the media in Nakuru, Ngunjiri wondered why some of his colleagues in UDA were getting jittery when seen with Governor Kinyanjui. “These mischiefs of investigating who my friends have to stop, I am married to one wife and the rest of the people have no business in my private life,” he said. Ngunjiri’s statement goes against UDA's and Kenya Kwanza’s clarion call for a six-piece voting pattern starting from the President to the County ward representatives. The u-turn started on June 1 during Madaraka Day celebrations at Kiamaina Primary School when he uttered a pro-Kinyanjui slogan. This statement was not taken lightly by Nakuru UDA’s gubernatorial candidate, Senator Susan Kihika who reacted sarcastically to Ngunjiri’s statement on her FaceBook page. Kihika threatened to de-campaign Ngunjiri in Bahati. He asked residents to ignore the national leaders and pick their local leaders without fear or intimidation. “I am putting inciter to violence on notice, if any of you doesn't have anything beneficial to say, stay away and let Nakuru people vote peacefully,” he said. The MP who is vying for a third term said residents should be proud of the country’s diversity and use it for development. “I have constituents who are originally from Nyanza, they have visited my home and we have been having discussions which are our own little secret,” said Ngunjiri. On Nakuru being listed as number two among counties at the risk of experiencing electoral-related conflicts, the MP blamed it on the reckless and divisive statement by political leaders.