Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua has cautioned politicians against inciting their supporters to violence for political expediency. Mwingi town has previously witnessed violence linked to heightened campaign activities. In a statement issued to the media on Wednesday, the lawmaker warned against such activities ahead of the forthcoming election. “The people of Mwingi town deserve to go about their businesses peacefully. They don't want the blood of their children shed, by activities of leaders seeking office. This must stop,” Wambua said. The senator said every candidate must get the space they need to address people anywhere in the county. “I must condemn the sporadic political violence in parts of our county, sponsored by some candidates. Political hooliganism has no place in our county. It is archaic; very retrogressive. There is strength in humility,” he said. Wambua sent out the warning in the wake of last Sunday's incident where some youth caused chaos as he addressed a rally in Mwingi town. The senator was at a celebratory road show after he was cleared to defend his seat by the county IEBC returning officer Macharia Gichichi. In his statement, he also alluded to what he referred to as a serious political confrontation in Mwingi town on Tuesday. “Unfortunately, there was a group of less than 20 young people (some not very young) paid to shout at me, tear off posters from cars and rip off reflector jackets from the young boda boda riders in my convoy,” Wambua said. He said the provocation was meant to make his team react with anger, to cause a physical confrontation. However, they refused to fall into the cheap, archaic plot. “I addressed the people of Mwingi with little regard to those shouting at me. As the elected senator of Kitui and a leader in this country, I call for serious reflection on the part of our leaders,” he said. Wambua further said the wrong impression that the people of Mwingi town are violent must never be created, calling for stoppage of violence. He said every candidate must get the space they need to address people anywhere in Kitui. The senator said political competition must never be a basis for enmity, as it is a process of making a choice between competing interests and qualities of leadership. “I urge all of us seeking elective positions to sell our manifestos and vision to our people and give them the opportunity to choose the leaders they want,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)