Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has rallied Marsabit residents to back his bid with a pledge to turn the county into a global livestock market. He said he will achieve this by investing in livestock products besides introducing livestock insurance scheme to protect their animals from devastating drought if elected on August 9. "I will start livestock insurance scheme to help pastoralists. When your livestock are killed by drought, you can still be compensated," Raila said Raila. He spoke on Thursday while addressing thousands of his supporters in Marsabit county. ODM leader further affirmed his resolve to introduce a social welfare fund to carter for the needs of widows, single mothers and divorcees from abject poverty with a monthly stipend of Sh6000. He also promised the pastoral community in the county that he will protect them against the adverse effects of climate change which have resulted in continuous drought. This, he said, will be through addressing water shortage by constructing a mega dam for harnessing of rain water for both domestic and animal use. "The construction of dams will help to harvest water during rainy season and help the herders to feed their livestock when droughts comes," he said Raila further promised the Marsabit electorate universal health coverage dubbed "Baba Care " and endeared traders in the county with a promise for interest-free loans payable after seven years. The former prime minister said his administration would root out rampant corruption and liberate Kenyans by jailing all corrupt leaders and seal loopholes used to embezzle public funds. The Azimio leader said his agenda encompasses various aspects that his government would address to improve the lives of the people. He said if elected, he would ensure he establishes industries in each county in a bid to create jobs for youth. Raila said if Kenyans give him a chance, he would deliver the third and final liberation by eradicating ignorance, diseases and poverty. The ODM leader challenged Marsabit residents to turn up in large numbers on election day and vote for him and his running mate Martha Karua, assuring them they will enhance security and improve infrastructure. Speaking at the same rally, Karua called on Marsabit residents to overwhelmingly vote for Raila whom she described as the best to lead the country due to his vast experience. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka urged residents to coexist peaceful saying insecurity is disruptive to development. He reminded residents that in 2006, they lost all their leaders while on a mission to unite warring communities in North eastern and enhance cohesiveness. Marsabit county Governor Mohamud Ali drummed up support for Raila Odinga terming him as a leader who will bring desirable change assuring ODM leader that residents will support and vote for him. On April 10, 2006, a military helicopter carrying leaders on a peace mission crashed near Marsabit National Park and burst in flames. Among the passengers were six members of parliament and local officials who were on their way to Marsabit to mediate between warring communities in the area, where conflict over pasture and water is common. The crash caused by bad weather resulted in the deaths of 14 people, including five members of Parliament. Among those on board were MPs Bonaya Godana, Titus Ngoyoni, Abdi Sasura, Mirugi Kariuki, and Guracha Galgallo. Four people were pulled from the wreckage alive but one died en route to Nairobi for treatment.