Independent aspirant for the Juja parliamentary seat Naftali Muiga Rugara has pulled out of the race and thrown his weight behind one of his opponents Prof Joseph Ng'ang'a alias 'Mustard'. Rugara who was among the eight candidates cleared by IEBC to vie for the seat, was among three other parliamentary hopefuls who have formed the United for Juja coalition to campaign for Prof Ng'ang'a, also an independent candidate. Other contenders who threw their weight behind Ng’ang’a’s candidature include Karanja Ngarachu and Kelvin Karanja. Both Rugara and Ng'ang'a are lecturers at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and were listed by the electoral agency along with six others to battle it out in the August 9 elections. Also on the ballot is the incumbent George Koimburi (UDA), Aloise Kinyanjui (Jubilee), Dorcas Chege (Tujibebe), David Kamau (Usawa Party), Anthony Kirori (independent) and Jennifer Ndung'u (TSP). Addressing a press conference in Juja where he declared his withdrawal, Rugara said he will present his letter of withdrawal to the IEBC so that his name is removed from the ballot. “Juja has been the most underdeveloped constituency in Kiambu county for years and it’s all because of poor leadership. My decision to back my brother Prof Ng’ang’a is well informed because I believe his leadership will massively transform Juja,” Rugara said. Prof Ng'ang'a vowed to deliver the seat as an independent and pledged to work with whoever forms the next government towards building a prosperous Juja. “We will lobby for more infrastructural developments once we ascend to the 13th Parliament. We currently have leaders who are being controlled by their parties. Juja needs independent thinkers and independent leaders,” Ng’ang’a said. Meanwhile, 21- year old Kevin Kariuki Mbuthia, an independent candidate for the Kalimoni ward seat in Juja broke into tears of joy after being presented with a nomination certificate by IEBC. The young MCA contender said he was overwhelmed by the support he got from residents while collecting nomination signatures and pledged to work tirelessly to uplift the ward if elected. 