Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has spiced up the ongoing debate on politicians' academic credentials by insinuating that he's pursuing PhD studies. The businessman cum politician Thursday posted on his Twitter handle photos of his 2015 graduation. Sonko claims he graduated on July 18, 2015, with a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the Methodist University (KEMU) Nairobi Campus. "TBT...Mnajua mimi sikosi evidence ya kitu yoyote (You know I never lack evidence on anything," Sonko tweeted. "Very soon I will invite you for my PHD graduation," he added. Sonko's move appears to be in keeping with a trend by some Kenyans who have taken to posting their graduation photos online as proof that they undertook higher education. The move, laced with sarcastic undertones, comes amid a raging debate on the legality of the academic credentials of some politicians who are seeking elective seats at the August 9 polls. Those at the centre of the controversy include Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and former Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti. Sakaja is seeking the Nairobi governor seat on the UDA party ticket while Wavinya was given a direct ticket for the Machakos governor race. Two Machakos voters have, however, lodged a complaint at the electoral commission challenging the legality of her computer science degree from a London university. They have also questioned how Ndeti managed to acquire a Master's degree before a bachelor's degree. Gideon Ngewa Kenya and Kisilu Mutisya want the Independent Electoral Commission (IEBC) disputes resolution committee to revoke her clearance, saying she's is not qualified to vie for the position. She will know her fate on Saturday when the committee delivers its verdict. Sakaja is also awaiting a verdict on Sunday on a case challenging the authenticity of his Bachelor of Science in Management degree from Uganda's Team University. A petitioner, Dennis Wahome, alleges that the senator never undertook studies for the course as his name is missing from the university's graduation list of October 21, 2016. Three other petitions which sort the revocation of the degree were dismissed on Wednesday by the tribunal after the complainants failed to appear before the panel. Whereas Sonko is not facing academic credibility issues, his bid for the Mombasa governor seat has been stifled over integrity issues following his impeachment as Nairobi governor in 2020.