Fast-rising Stephen Mwangi and Maxine Wahome have expressed their excitement after securing a sponsorship package from Quickmart supermarket ahead of next weekend's WRC Safari Rally in Naivasha. While unveiling their cars at Quickmart, Kilimani, the two Kenyan drivers said the Sh10m deal (for both) comes at a time when they are putting the final touches on the Safari Rally preparations. "I am excited that Quickmart has come on board to support Steve and me and I can't wait to fly their flag high at the rally," said Wahome, who won the inaugural Lioness Rally in March. "I participated in last year's WRC Championship without a sponsor and it was a bit expensive to meet all the requirements from the FIA. I was among the people who did not finish the rally last year but with the sponsorship, I feel like I am plugged well to finish the race," observed Mwangi. The duo said they are preparing both mentally and physically for what is expected to be another grueling race in Naivasha and its environs. They said they are also working closely with their mechanics to ensure the cars are in racing conditions to steer them to their targets. Quickmart's CEO Peter Kang'iri said their support is meant to encourage drivers to exploit their potential on the dusty course. "These drivers are an inspiration to all of us. Their raw talent, agility, freshness and of course 'Proudly Kenyan' attitude is an accurate reflection of Quickmart as a homegrown brand."Cabinet Secretary for Sports Amina Mohamed, Sports PS Joe Okudo and Safari Rally Project CEO Phineas Kimathi were among the dignitaries present. Amina urged the drivers to make the rally historic by putting in exemplary displays since this is the last championship President Uhuru Kenyatta will be flagging off. "I am extremely proud of what we have achieved as a country but I believe there is so much more we can achieve together if we put our heads together. I believe with just a few years, Maxine will carry the trophy and take the cheque," Amina said. She also urged the private sectors in the country to come on board and support sports. After 19 years, the World Rally Championship made a comeback in Kenya last year and will be on until 2026.