Mombasa Sports Club are seeking to redeem themselves against Wazalendo and Butali Warriors in the Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League matches this weekend in Mombasa. Newbies MSC have found the going tough and are winless in five matches. The Coastal team are bottom of the 10-team league with Zero points and face a litmus test against the top three teams. League leaders Butali, on the other hand, top the standings with 14 points from six matches while third-placed Wazalendo have 12, having played a game less. "We have been losing our matches by a one-goal margin much to our disappointment. The Premier League is all about fine margins and that has been our weakness," captain Mariano Emadau observed. "It's the technical bit that we've been working on, especially the finishing and penalty corners. "Both Butali and Wazalendo are strong outfits but we are ready for the challenge. "The learning curve is steep, but it's too early to place MSC in the relegation dog fight. "However, we do note that we have a lot at stake over the next 10 days or so and we'll take it one game at a time," said Emadou Kenya Police will settle scores with Parkroad Badgers on Saturday before wrapping up the weekend with Strathmore Gladiators' duel. Police, who are the Gold Cup winners, have 13 points and are second on the log. Despite winning twice, the Badgers are seventh with six points while Meshack Senge-coached Strathmore sit fourth with 10 points. Badgers take on USIU-A Mashujaa on Sunday. In the women's category, record champions Blazers hope to close the five-point gap to two against leaders Strathmore Scorpions as they face a tricky Lakers side. The two are third and fourth respectively. Kisumu-based Lakers will also fancy their chances against Sliders who are bottom of the table. In the men's Super League, Parklands Sports Club entertain Nakuru, Mvita host Multimedia University in Mombasa as Kenyatta University look to scalp Kisumu Youngsters. The Technical University of Kenya TUK hope to slay Kisumu as former national champions Sikh Union play Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology in their backyard. KU play JKUAT as MSC welcome MMU in Mombasa in the women’s category.