ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula had promised to deliver almost all Western votes to Deputy President William Ruto. Ruto said the two told him they were capable of delivering 95 per cent of the Western votes during the coalition negotiations. The Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate said he lowered the target and asked the two to instead deliver 70 per cent of the votes, to be entitled to a 30 per cent stake in his government. Ruto, who spoke during a rally at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega on Sunday, said he gave the two leaders the leeway to state what they thought they could deliver. However, critics have dismissed the target, saying Mudavadi and Wetang'ula cannot match it. During the rally, Kenya Kwanza leaders cautioned residents of Western Kenya against falling prey to deluding promises by their Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya rivals. They accused the Azimio team of making false pledges in a desperate bid to ring-fence the vote-rich region. Ruto. however, hailed Mudavadi and Wetang’ula for agreeing to team up with him in the run-up to the general election. “At this meeting, at the headquarters of the Mulembe nation, I salute Mudavadi and Weta for being the champions of the change we want to bring to this country. “There are people who think your work is to sing, clap and work for them,” he said. Azimio flagbearer Raila Odinga has offered more seats for Western Kenya to counter Ruto's forays in the region. He has offered the region three more slots in the Cabinet and the National Assembly majority leader’s position. Raila had earlier said he would nominate Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya as the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary. He had also pledged to nominate former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende as the Senate boss. Ruto however said Raila accomplished very little for the region during his time as prime minister and after the March 2018 handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mudavadi thanked residents for turning up in large numbers for the rally, to send a signal that Western is in Kenya Kwanza. “You have issued a statement; a statement of finality. A statement saying Azimio does not have a stake here,” he said. The ANC leader said the region stands to get the pledges they are making because the Kenya Kwanza agreement is binding. “When you see Azimio people tell them you know about the Kenya Kwanza deal. Then ask them for details of their deal with western. "You will not be shown anything because it is non-existent. They will not show you documents saying how many Cabinet slots western is entitled to,” he said. Mudavadi said residents should vote for Ruto because they will have a 30 per cent stake in government. Wetang’ula also thanked residents for coming out in masses to show that Western communities are walking together. “We are not playgrounds for anybody. We are a foundation of democracy and we decide once and for all,” he said. The Ford Kenya leader also warned residents against believing Azimio will deliver on its pledges. “Where are the agreements as Mudavadi has asked? MoU is a document of intent, while agreements are permanent and actionable,” he said. Wetang’ula said Raila wrangled with president Mwai Kibaki because they had MoU’s and not properly documented agreements. Ruto’s running mate Rigathi Gachagua said Mudavadi and Wetang’ula are responsible leaders who could not mislead their community. “They have analysed everything and come to the realisation that Ruto will win,” he said. Also present at the rally were governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), and Amason Kingi (Kilifi). Others were MPs Aden Duale (Garissa Township), Ben Washiali (Mumias East) and Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Women Rep). Speaker Kenneth Lusaka (Senate), Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala also attended. Malala said Western will vote for Ruto because of his respect to the community. “Opinion polls have said you are not popular in Kakamega. You have seen how people love you here. “If you vote for Ruto, know that you have voted for Mudavadi’s prime Cabinet Secretary position. In Azimio, we are nowhere and Western will vote for the coalition they are represented bt,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)