On April 7, local sports enthusiasts found a reason to smile after Finance Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani tabled the next financial year estimates before parliament. The sports sector received a slightly higher allocation in the 2022/2023 national budget after Yattani recommended that Sh15.8 billion be wired to the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund. The allocation is an increase from the Sh15 billion handed to the Fund in the preceding year. To cap it off, CS Yattani also proposed Sh125 million for the refurbishment of regional stadiums. “To further support sports development and tourism recovery, I have proposed an allocation of Sh 15.8 billion for the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund... and Sh125 million for the refurbishment of the regional stadia,” Yattani was quoted as saying. With major sporting events lined up later this year — including the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games and World Athletics Championships — the allotments are a major boost to the Ministry of Sports. The development comes at a time national teams have resorted to the begging bowls amidst claims they are unable to finance their trips to international assignments. On Monday, for instance, Kenya Simbas head coach Paul Odera appealed to well-wishers to come to the aid of the cash-strapped 28-man squad who are unable to honour their Rugby Africa World Cup qualification tournament in France. Shujaa, who were scheduled to travel to France last night ahead of the tournament, are financially strapped and unable to meet their Sh10m budget. They had requested assistance from the Ministry of Sports, only to be told the taps of the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund had run dry. A devastated Odera is now pegging all his hopes on at least 10,000 loyal Simbas fans to contribute Sh1,000 each towards the aid kitty. “Thank you to all those who have given so far. I appeal to ten thousand Kenyans and supporters to give Sh1,000, 9$, 8 €, 7£ to get the Simbas over the line. The boys need you,” Odera posted on his social media page. The Simbas play their opening match against Uganda on July 2 and a win will hand them an automatic semi-finals berth in the qualifiers. Odera's grave concerns came barely a fortnight after the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) said that Malkia Strikers' trip to Sao Paulo, Brazil for a two-month high-performance training camp hang in the balance owing to a dearth of funds. The training is organised by the International Volleyball Federation (FIVB). The team was also expected to make a trip for the World Championships primed for September 23 to October 15 in Poland and the Netherlands. KVF deputy president Charles Nyaberi told the media that they submitted their budget of Sh46 million to the government two months ago but were yet to get any response ahead of their planned departure. With FIVB willing to foot all the expenses during the training camp in Brazil, KVB had hoped the government would cater for the air tickets and allowances for the 16 players and two officials. Malkia Strikers head coach Paul Bitok said Kenya risks being suspended by FIVB if they fail to participate in the global showpiece. The situation is a big blow to all the illustrious athletes who have been burning the midnight oil to fly the country's flag on the global stage.