Athletics Kenya first vice-president Fatma Awale has expressed her utmost gratitude to heads of athletics federations in East Africa for rallying behind Kenya’s bid to host the 2025 World Championship. Awale, the Bid chairperson, said support from African nations is a big psychological boost to Kenya’s quest and will magnify the need to become the first country from the continent to host an event of such magnitude. “We are grateful for the support they (East Africa) have lent to us even as we wait for word from World Athletics. This is Africa’s time and we as Kenya are honoured to be carrying all the hopes of the continent to host such an event for the first time. We are glad that the whole of Africa is excited for us and ready to celebrate with us. Their support has boosted us immensely,” Awale said. She said so far so good as far as the country’s bid is concerned and concurred with the widely held view that Kenya deserves to host the global showpiece by virtue of its reputation as a sporting destination. “We have hosted a number of World Athletics events, such as last year’s World Under 20 Championships. The bid documents were presented to World Athletics on June 15 and we are now waiting for their word. We are ready to host this championship and are optimistic things will work out for the best,” Awale said. Awale also reserved special mention to the government, through the Ministry of Sports, for walking with AK every step of the way. “The government, through the Sports CS Amina (Mohamed) have been very supportive throughout the process. With their assistance, we are confident WA will see sense in our bid and grant us the hosting rights, culminating in a successful and memorable championship,” she said. Among those to have voiced support for the bid include the 1992 Barcelona Olympics 10,000m champion Derartu Tulu, General Secretary and treasurer of the East Africa Athletics Federation, Saddique Ahmed Ibrahim, Tanzania Olympic Committee secretary-general Filbert Bayi, Uganda Athletics Federation president Dominic Otuchet and president of South Sudan Athletics Federation Suleiman Samir Khamis.