Groundnut farmers from Siaya have benefitted from training on aflatoxins control and management in a bid to enhance food safety and market access for this produce. While aflatoxins have been largely associated with maize, many farmers and consumers lack enough knowledge on other produce affected by the same including herbs, spices, chili, millet, legumes, and nuts among others. In Siaya, about 100 farmers were informed about practices that expose groundnuts to aflatoxins contamination and the dangers that come with consuming, feeding livestock and selling contaminated produce. A similar number of farmers from Homabay benefitted from a similar training while another lot from Busia is set to be trained at the end of the week. “Aflatoxins are associated with hazards such as liver cancer, compromised immunity, and even death,” noted Asha Bakari, a food scientist who doubled as the trainer. She defined aflatoxins as ‘poisons produced by toxigenic Aspergillus fungi as toxic metabolites. Bakari added that fungi are primarily found in the soil and can grow and reproduce in certain food plants. Contrary to the belief that products with aflatoxins can be perceived through their outlook, taste, or smell, scientist at the workshop said the toxins have neither taste nor color and are odorless. “I had always thought that aflatoxins are greenish in color and have been feeding my livestock and poultry on rotten produce,” said Michael Ochieng a farmer. Ochieng said he was glad after learning that feeding livestock and poultry on cereals infected with aflatoxin was indirectly poisoning consumers. Another farmer, Grace Omondi said she had only heard about aflatoxins through a local radio station and had only associated it with maize. “I always thought my family was safe from aflatoxins and their effects as long as I stored my grains in a clean dry place,” she said Omondi promised to stop feeding her poultry on rotten maize because she was now aware of the hazards of feeding animals with infected produce. “Animals are very unforgiving, if you feed them on poison, they return it to you through products such as eggs, meat, and milk,” said the trainer, Bakari She said aflatoxins behave like savings in a bank, little traces are left in the animal’s blood and the more it is fed on infected feeds, the more is stored. The training is an initiative of the European Union (EU)- supported Market Access Upgrade Program (MARKUP) Kenya, which seeks to promote food safety and market access for selected produce locally, regionally, and internationally. Implemented by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) in partnership with the government and private sector, MARKUP Kenya focuses on groundnuts, macadamia, selected fruits, vegetables, chili, herbs, and spices. The program’s Knowledge Management Expert Christine Misiko said several initiatives are ongoing to promote food safety. These include two campaigns, one on proper use of pesticides and another on aflatoxins control and management. Additionally, the program has trained 15 master trainers from Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services (KEPHIS) Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS), Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA), and the ministry of health. The trainers are anticipated to reach out to over 150 stakeholders including farmers, extension officers, traders, and regulators. Misiko added that the trainings are part of marking World Food Safety Day, which is celebrated every June 7, as a way of creating awareness on issues revolving around safe food.