Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has dismissed claims that he scored a mean grade of D in his KCSE exams. Speaking outside the Kakamega Law Courts, Malala said he was the first politician to post his academic paper on his various social media sites as a show of confidence in his qualifications. He accused  Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya of being behind his woes saying he instructed his lawyers to file the case. "Ile kesi ambayo Oparanya ameleta hapa anasema nilipata D. KNEC, Ministry of Education, wameandikia IEBC barua wakawaambia ya kwamba mimi sikupata D, nilipata B for Boy," he said This loosely translates to," The case that Oparanya (Wycliffe Oparanya - Kakamega Governor) has brought here indicates that I scored a D. KNEC, Ministry of Education, wrote a letter to IEBC telling them I did not get D for the dog, I got a B for Boy". The case seeking Malala blocked from vying was filed by Fred Muka and Frankline Anguche. Malala however claimed the two are acting on behalf of Governor Oparanya though he could not provide proof to back up his claims. The Senator said he attended Friends Kamusinga High School for his secondary school education, adding the school has also written a letter to the Electoral Commission. "There have also been claims that I did not go to Campus. I went to a university that ranks among the top 10 schools in the world, USIU," he added. He said he graduated with a Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems Technology. He said USIU has also written to IEBC and the County Returning Officer and attached his academic transcripts as proof of attendance. The politician has asked Oparanya to leave him be so he can contest his endorsed candidate on the ballot. Malala was in Court after an electorate Fred Muka, on Friday moved to court in a bid to have IEBC barred from clearing Malala. He had claimed that Malala does not have a degree certificate and that his USIU degree is not authentic. The Court allowed Malala to present his papers. The Senator called upon his supporters to accompany him to Bomas of Kenya on Tuesday as he takes his papers for clearance.