The Gema community in Mombasa has reiterated its support for the Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya coalition party. The community leaders on Friday said they are supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga’s fifth State House bid and refuted claims of division among them. Gema Community Mombasa Chapter chairperson Henry Wanyoike said they are mobilising their members to vote for Raila as a bloc. According to Wanyoike, the Gema community was instrumental in the handshake negotiations between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila in 2018. The Kikuyu council of elders chairperson Wachira Wakiago was part of the negotiations, Wanyoike said at the Mombasa Railways Club. “Since then, we have been strongly behind Uhuru and Raila. Our support for Azimio is unwavering,” he said. Gema is an organisation created to presumably advance the social and political needs of the Gikuyu, Embu and Meru communities from Mount Kenya. Mombasa county, which has a population of 1.2 million people as per the 2009 national census, has 580,223 registered voters. The Mijikenda make up 35 per cent of all the registered voters with 237,855 votes. They are followed by the Kamba at 30 per cent, the Gema and Luo respectively. Wanyoike said they are not going to split their votes. Francis Kamau said they are going to work with leaders who are ready and have shown willingness to address the community’s interests. “We have vowed as a community that we are going to put our votes in one basket. We have listened to several leaders in Mombasa and we shall make the right decision at the appropriate time,” he said. Catherine Kimani called for unity of the community in Mombasa as she called out politicians, who are hell-bent to divide the region along ethnic lines. “We all have a right to vote and vie for seats in Mombasa. I urge politicians to desist from the wabara and wapwani (those from upcountry and native) narrative,” she said. Kimani also insisted on the importance of the community to rally behind Uhuru and the Azimio coalition. “We don’t want our children to be sidelined when it comes to job opportunities, bursaries, and other county services. We want change, let us vote for the right leaders,” she said. The community also threw its weight behind Eric Gitonga, an independent candidate for Nyali MP. They also nominated Gitonga to be the community’s spokesperson in Mombasa after falling out with Crispus Waithaka, who has been the spokesperson over the years. “Gitonga has a clean record and has demonstrated the ability to transform Nyali. As a community we will vote for him as a bloc,” Kimani said. Gitonga said Gema is ready to work with other communities in Mombasa. He denied splitting reports saying they are intact as a community and solidly behind Azimio. “People have different ideologies, but that does not mean we are divided. Every individual has the right to make his or her own informed political decision. “At the end of the day, we will speak in one language and vote in one direction,” Gitonga said. He also lashed out at politicians trying to divide Mombasa people along tribal lines, saying Mombasa belongs to everyone. “I have lived and worked in Mombasa for more than 30 years, so someone calling me mtu wa bara doesn’t know what he is saying,” Gitonga said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)