Tens of maize millers in Nakuru county — about half —have closed down due to an acute shortage of maize coupled with high prices of flour. The millers have warned consumers to brace for higher prices with a 90kg bag going for Sh7,000, up from Sh3,000 early in the year. The government is likely to import subsidised maize from Mexico and Mozambique. In the last couple of weeks, the cost of maize flour has hit Sh220 per two kilogramme packet. Millers blame harsh economic times, high fuel prices and the war in Ukraine. Chairman of the small and medium scale millers in Nakuru county Samuel Waweru said the shortage was acute. Many millers cannot afford to import subsidised maize, forcing many to shut down or turn to other business. “Maize is the country’s staple food and many millers from Naivasha, Gilgil and Molo have been forced out of the market either due to shortage of maize or the high prices,” he said. Waweru said more than 50 per cent had closed factories. He said government should supply subsidised maize. “Kenya has never been self-sustaining in maize production and we have relied on imports from Uganda and Tanzania, leading to the current crisis,” he said on Wednesday. He warned of low production in the coming months as many farmers had not used fertiliser  due to the high prices. The rains also have been inadequate. Miller Elijah Thuo from Thumkem Products said it was nearly impossible to buy maize due to high prices. Previously, he used to sift more than 15 bags per day, but now it's less than one bag, so prices have gone up. “We are living in hard times and the situation has been worsened by the escalating prices of fuel which has seen the cost of production also go up,” he said. Miller Jane Wanjiku said that sifted maize was going for Sh100 per kilo, up from Sh50 a few months ago, with projections it would rise further. “We have been forced to increase the cost of maize flour and this has affected many consumers who can only have one meal per day,” she said. Consumers Miriam Wangui and Khalid Faiz urged the government to help as they cannot afford flour. (Edited by V. Graham)