Safina Presidential candidate Jimi Wanjigi had written to the electoral commission raising seven issues he wanted the agency to address ahead of the elections. In a letter to IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati, Wanjigi, who was denied clearance on Monday, had asked IEBC to conduct a thorough audit of the 2017 presidential election in accordance with the elections technology regulations. He said the commission should involve all parties and stakeholders in the process to boost the confidence of citizens ahead of the August 9 General Election. He asked the IEBC to fully comply with the Court of Appeal decision in the Maina Kiai case on the announcement of presidential results at the Constituency Tallying Centres. Wanjigi said the media needs to be free to air the announcements as carried out by the respective Constituency Returning Officers. Wanjigi noted that the IEBC should issue a circular to state agencies to provide adequate security to voters who attend campaign rallies of presidential candidates across the country. At the same time, Wanjigi asked the IEBC to cease displaying what he termed as 'statistics' at the National Tallying Centre without requisite forms. “At the Supreme Court, the Commission lawyers disowned the information displayed referring to the same as statistics and not results,” Wanjigi said. The Safina presidential candidate also asked the IEBC to use the first names of Presidential Candidates in arranging the ballot papers given that, in this election, there are about three candidates whose surnames start with 'W'. “The commission should arrange names at the ballot as per the first name and not the surname,” Wanjigi said. He said a precedent was set on the matter in 2013 when the commission used first names in arranging the list on the ballot when four candidates shared the alphabet 'K' as the first letter on their surnames. “We urge the chairman and the commission to adhere to the fidelity of the constitution, the Elections Act and the Regulations to proactive and purposely consult with presidential candidates and political parties in the entire elections period,” he said. Wanjigi regretted that the commission is yet the commission has been cagey about its ICT infrastructure which he said was illegally accessed to manipulate the 2017 presidential elections. For instance, Wanjigi noted that the commission is yet to make public the action taken to three ICT officers reprimanded in Chebukati's internal memo of September 5, 2017. In the explosive memo that was addressed to then IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba, Chebukati had questioned how the officers created a username in the system using his particulars without his knowledge or approval. Chebukati then singled out ICT officers Paul Mugo and Bonface Wamae for illegally creating the account allegedly under the instructions of the then ICT Director James Muhati. The IEBC chairman had then asked Chiloba to take action against the officers and report back to the commission after it was found that the account opened undertook some 9,934 transactions without Chebukati's knowledge. “To the best of our knowledge, no report has been availed to communicate what action was taken in relation to this and any remedial measures taken to prevent a repeat of the same in the coming presidential elections,” Wanjigi said in the letter. Wanjigi said the Chairman's memo was a confirmation of the National Super Alliance claim in 2017 that the server was manipulated. At the same time, Wanjigi asked the IEBC to issue a directive to media houses to equal coverage of presidential candidates and where necessary take action to ensure compliance. “The media plays a wide role in influencing public perception and it is important that the commission ensures that they are not left to their devices to unfairly influence public perception on then candidates competing in the presidential elections,” said Wanjigi.