ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna and singer Kelvin Bahati have heightened war of words over the Mathare Parliamentary seat. The two have now taken their ‘war' to social media, where they went at each other with bitter statements. Taking to Twitter, Sifuna thanked the Jubilee party for agreeing to back incumbent Anthony Oluoch of ODM for the Mathare parliamentary seat, saying that he would personally apologise to the singer's wife. “Asante sana Jubilee Party Nairobi for resolving the Matahre question for us. We now have a candidate. Hiyo Kijana ya kulia nitachukua apology yake kwa Diana personally,” Sifuna said. An angry Bahati responded, warning the ODM secretary general to desist from mentioning his wife’s name while playing politics. He further asked Sifuna to have respect for women. “Mr Sifuna, keep your mouth from mentioning my wife in your cheap politics !!! Have some respect for women," Bahati responded. It all started on Monday, after Sifuna announced during a joint delegates meeting between ODM and Jubilee members that it had been decided that Orange party's Anthony Oluoch was the preferred candidate in Mathare and Bahati, who is seeking the seat under a Jubilee ticket will step aside. Sifuna who is Azimio la Umoja Nairobi Senatorial candidate stated that, Bahati will, however, be  offered an alternative position in the Azimio-One Kenya outfit upon winning the August polls. "Zoning was done perfectly even here in Mathare we have agreed that its an ODM zone. We only have one candidate in Mathare and that is Anthony Oluoch, this young man called Bahati is my younger brother and we will talk. I will make sure that we find him another position within the Azimio government," he said. Last month, Jubilee Party gave Bahati the nomination certificate and he was cleared by the  Independence Electoral and Boundaries Commission to vie for Mathare MP in the August general election. ODM had also given the incumbent Anthony Oluoch the certificate to defend his seat. Reacting to the statement, Bahati told off Sifuna, alleging that he had been paid off by the Mathare MP to sabotage his bid. He insisted that his name will be in the ballot and asked the ODM SG to focus in his own campaign instead. "You have already been given three million by my losing opponent to lie that I have stepped down and "you" will offer me a job in the Azimio government. You want to give me a job as who? Stay away from Mathare politics and focus on your bid or you will lose again like in 2017," Bahati said.