Immaculate Nekesa and Triza Atuka are among the surprise inclusions in the 18-strong Malkia Strikers provisional squad for the World Championships scheduled for September 23 to October 15 in Poland and the Netherlands. Nekesa, 19, made her international bow in Tunisia last month as she helped Kenya Commercial Bank win the Africa Women’s Volleyball Club Championship after 16 years of drought. She is itching for her debut in the national squad currently under  Brazilian coaches led by Louzar de Moura. The Tokyo Olympics trialist has come of age, starting all the matches in Tunisia to underline her importance in the Japheth Munala-tutored KCB side. The Kwanthanze alumnus was used sparingly last season because she could not dislodge the on-form Rwandeese Ernestine Akimanizanye. The departure of Akimanizanye was a breath of fresh air to the Bungoma native, who has made the position her own despite cut-throat competition from New signing Faith Imodia. After impressing in Tunisia, Nekesa feels she’s ready for the big occasion. “I am not there yet but I have improved my performance and I am determined to reciprocate the trust coaches have in me. They have stretched me to the limit in training in a bid to exploit my full potential and I am cool with that.” She added: “I believe I have what it takes to don the national colours and I will do all I can to satisfy my ambition. I ought to be sharp when I have the ball and be consistent with my decisions with and without the ball. Fighting for playing time with Imodia is healthy competition for us since we are all passionate about the sport.” Nekesa cited Jane Wacu and former teammate Esther Mutinda (both missing in the squad) as role models in her journey to becoming the best. Wacu, who plays professionally in Seychelles, is the longest-serving Malkia setter and boasts of a decorated career. Despite her tender age of 23, Mutinda, also from Kwanthanze, is considered one of the finest in her role. The Kenya Pipeline player is a modern-day setter with her vision in particular a key asset to the oil merchants. “I knew Wacu at a tender age while we were at Kasarani for training. Her ball-handling skills impressed me and as fate would have it, we were re-united at Malkia camp for the delayed 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. I have learnt a lot from her and her encouragement instilled confidence in me,” she said. “ On the other hand, Mutinda was a class ahead of me at Kwanthanze and on the court, she analysed my game and advised me on areas of Improvement,” she added. The squad is largely made up of young players as Kenya rebuilds for the Paris Olympic Games in 2024. Trizah Atuka makes a comeback after missing past assignments due to injury. The Squad: Outside Hitters: Mercy Moim (KCB), Noel Murambi, Veronica Adhiambo (Pipeline), Pamela Jepkurui, Meldine Sande, Yvonne Wavinya (Kenya Prisons); Middle Blockers: Trizah Atuka, Gladys Ekaru (Pipeline), Edith Wisa (KCB), Lorine Chebet (Prisons); Opposite Attacker: Sharon Chepchumba (KCB),  Emmaculate Chemtai (Prisons), Violet Makuto (Pipeline); Setters: Emmaculate Nekesa, Faith Imodia (KCB), Veronica Kilabat (KDF); Libero: Agrippina Kundu (Pipeline), Veronica Makokha (KDF).