Nyaribari Masaba Kanu candidate Hillary Nyaanga will introduce free meals in the constituency's schools if elected. He said if implemented, the programme would boost performance in academics among the learners. "Even with limited resources, we must ensure our learners are not arbitrarily denied the opportunity to get education and within circumstances that are congenial," Nyaanga said. He made the remarks at Nyamesocho, Riasoe and Mesabisabi villages  during the campaigns on Tuesday. Already ten schools in the constituency have been put on a pilot programme as part of the broad efforts to spur performance in the region’s schools. "Though we are not fairing badly, I still believe our students and pupils have the potential to do more if they are given some little support,” he said. Nyaanga is among the front runners seeking to succeed outgoing MP Ezekiel Machogu. Machogu is currently vying for Kisii governor seat on a UDA ticket. Nyaanga is vying alongside former Kenya Ports Authority managing director Daniel Manduku  (ODM) and former Kemsa board official Joel Gesuka. Also in the race are former MP Elijah Moindi (Narc), Benard  Ondari, Laban Chweya, Kennedy Nyairo and Enock Mogeni (DAP-K). Nyaanga on Tuesday exuded optimism of emerging winning in the race. He said he would invest more on youth and tap on their talents by establishing a stadium in Ibacho. "While white collar jobs continue to remain the primary motivation of every school child in the country, we still have to disabuse that employment is everything," he told supporters at Nyamesocho. "We should tell our youth that there is more money that can be earned through sports. This is an area that I intend to leverage on.” He urged the youth to also enrol in craft courses as one of the means to expand job creation in the artisan markets. "People employed in this sector earn more than many of the cadres in white collar sector. If our youth genuinely get interested to hone their skills in local polytechnics, it will be a big boost for them,” Nyaanga said. He spoke of the need for a rehabilitation centre for persons with disability where they can be helped to learn craft courses  (edited by Amol Awuor)