Olympic marathon champion Peres Jepchirchir says a podium finish at the World Championship in Oregon will be the perfect foundation upon which to pursue a second consecutive New York Marathon title in November this year. Jepchirchir was a late addition to the women's marathon team for the global showpiece, which also includes world defending champion Ruth Chepng'etich, Amsterdam Marathon champion Angela Tanui and Paris Marathon Judith Jeptum. "I am going there for a podium place. I don't want to speak much about the prospect of gold because I know the competition will be tough. I had been planning on running at the New York Marathon and a good performance in Oregon will no doubt motivate me to run even better in the United States," the World Half Marathon champion said. Even though she had earmarked New York as her next race — after her pulsating victory at the Boston Marathon in April — Jepchirchir insists her entry into the World Championship marathon team will not affect her schedule for the rest of the year. “Coming in late will not stop me from running well and better races in Oregon. I had initially wanted to run in New York but after some convincing and self-examination, I thought it better to join the team. I thank God for being part of Team Kenya once again. I must also thank Athletics Kenya for their support,” the Boston Marathon champion said. Nonetheless, she was quick to dismiss assertions that she will be one of the favourites for the world title, owing to her impeccable record in past races. "The team that we have is very strong and anybody among us can win the title. With athletics, you can never pinpoint one person as a favourite because anything can happen on the material day. Some mornings, you wake up and your body just refuses to work the way it should," the double World Half Marathon champion said. Jepchirchir added: "Of course, everyone has his or her own weaknesses. No one is ever immortal. That is why I have to focus and intensify my training because there are so many good athletes coming up every other day." Jepchirchir was also a late entrant to the women's marathon team for the 2021 Olympic Games in Tokyo, where she clinched gold in a 1-2 podium finish for Kenya, with Brigid Kosgei scooping silver.