While the pandemic took a toll on everyone, it created content junkies out of all of us. Maybe it was the weariness that came along with confinement, the need to express yourself to a new audience, not just the familiar faces you saw every morning or simply wanting to connect with others. During the past year, with very little social interaction, everyone missed being able to hear humans talk about everyday banter on just the minutiae of life. The realization by many people was how much space in their life is filled by conversational white noise. Behold came Podcasts that were able to replicate the need for social conversations without the risk of exposure to close contact. As many businesses were affected during the pandemic period, one of the industries that thrived was any that had space for creatives to venture into new aspects of entertainment; no wonder TikTok became such a trend. However, at the heart of it was podcasting. Once a technological curiosity known to a few, podcasting has become a mass medium thanks in part to the audience that discovered them during the coronavirus pandemic. The appeal of podcasts grew during the pandemic as more people were in lockdown and craved some sort of entertainment. Podcast listeners got to choose when and where to listen to their favorite shows and in regard to topics of interest. There is nothing new under the sun, is exactly what comes to mind when referring to the vast array of topics covered in podcasts, everything literary that you could imagine is someone’s selected topic of discussion. In Kenya, podcasts are on an upward trajectory as more people are slowly beginning to consume digital content, the craze of podcasts being easily embraced due to increased access to technology and the internet, and the fact that almost everyone is a smartphone owner. Podcasts are seemingly dispensing the same function for the younger demographics, not forgetting the fact that podcasting is a fundamentally open medium where creators can create and distribute content easily. At the forefront of the production of podcasts in Kenya is Semabox, Kenya’s first specialist podcasting studio and podcast incubator, the first of its kind, which was born during the pandemic to provide solutions for interested podcasters to tell their stories