Malkia Strikers opposite hitter Sharon Chepchumba will make her decision on her future after the World Championship amidst mounting interest from clubs across the globe for her services. The 23-year-old Kenya Commercial Bank attacker is being courted by clubs from as far as Brazil, Greece, Korea, Egypt, and Turkey with her stake expected to rise after the World Championship scheduled for September 23 to October 15 in Netherlands and Poland. Rumours emerged a few days ago that Chepchumba had signed a professional contract with  Greek side Aris Thessaloniki. Chepchumba, who was feted as the Most Valuable Player last month for helping KCB end their 16-year continental title drought, is in the national team's squad that is expected to travel to Brazil this week for a two-month High-Performance training camp in Sao Paulo. "My focus is on World Championships and I don't want any distractions at the moment," Chumba observed, adding: "I am not worried about my future. The focus is to help Malkia attain their targets at the quadrennial show and we will see what happens after that." The Trans-Nzoia native previously turned out for Kenya Prisons and she has not hidden her desire to turn professional. However, any decision about her future will depend on KCB, the team credited for her meteoric rise. "I need exposure. The dream of every player is to turn pro and I am no different. We will sit down with the KCB management and try to broker a deal on fresh terms. If their offer will be good, I will gladly stay because they have made me the player I am today." "Alternatively, with their blessings, I can sign for a club abroad but always return to play for them whenever I am available. I am open to all possibilities." Chepchumba has set her eyes on becoming one of the top 10 best attackers in the world. The hard-hitting player is learning the ropes from 25-year-old Serbia's Tijana Boskovic and Italy's Paola Ogenyi Egonu who are the world's best attackers at the moment. Like Chepchumba, Egonu is only 23 but very integral to the Italian national team. "I am still growing in the game. With the hard yards in training and discipline, I can be in the best 10 categories of attackers globally. Despite their age, Egonu and Boskovic have proven impossible is nothing. There will be no limit on my achievements."