@alalmaurice Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma has criticised Governor Anyang' Nyong’o for blocking his campaigns in the city, terming it political intolerance. He was reacting to the restrictions by the county government barring politicians from holding rallies within the Central Business District. Ranguma said political intolerance comes when one fears he or she will lose an election causing them to create obstacles for their competitors. “When he contested for the governor seat in 2017, I did not tear gas him; I did not lock him out of the CBD. I pray that Nyong’o understands that it is important to have fair play and level playing field as I gave him in 2017,” he said. “I did not do anything that would stop him from campaigning in the county.” Ranguma, who is seeking to recapture the seat on the Movement for Democracy and Growth party, said Nyong’o must allow everybody to campaign because candidates were now operating under IEBC guidance. He spoke during the signing of a peace and manifesto charter ahead of the August 9 polls on Wednesday. The initiative was rolled out by the National Council of Churches of Kenya, Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, Elections Observation Group, Kenya National Commission for Human Rights and the Independent Medical and Legal Unit. It targets to enhance transparency and accountability in electoral and democratic processes to build a peaceful and cohesive nation. Ranguma said the initiative will promote peace and unity before, during and after the election and make leaders be held accountable. He said the electoral body will give directions and if they go wrong then he has a right to report them to IEBC but he must allow everyone to campaign even if it is in the CBD. “If it is the CBD which will give me votes then I will go there and campaign and he should allow that to happen,” Ranguma said. He said the outdoor advertising company that was to erect his billboards was threatened with deregistration if they placed his banner next to the Kisumu International Airport. “They say they don’t mind me putting it anywhere else but not next to the airport despite it being empty. These are things which we should not be allowed in this current dispensation,” he said. “If it is true that Nyong’o fought for democracy then that is not what he fought for. Democracy means you allow people to express their views even if you disagree with them.” Kisumu city acting manager Abala Wanga, however, dismissed the allegations. He said no politicians will be allowed to hold rallies within the CBD and its environs. Wanga said action will be taken against those who defy the directive. “You will be tear-gassed if you hold rallies in the CBD,” Wanga said at Nyong’o’s campaign secretariat office. On June 7, Ranguma accompanied by Senator Fred Outa and former speaker Onyango Oloo were teargassed by police as they made their way to CBD. He is backed by Outa, Oloo and former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura to recapture the seat from Nyong’o. But Wanga said Nyong’o has been advised and aware that politicians have been barred from holding rallies in the restricted areas. “That’s is why you saw the governor’s convoy going through Nyalenda, Kondele, and Obunga to Kirembe for a rally after being cleared by the IEBC to seek re-election,” he said. Wanga said the restriction targets to facilitate the ongoing transformation of the city through urban aesthetics. This, Wanga said, was being threatened by vandalism and the destruction of public property during the campaign rallies. Wanga said the city management shall designate areas for political gatherings outside the CBD. He said they have reported cases of vandalism and property damage after the political gatherings. Wanga warned against any non-compliance, saying any politician violating the notice will be apprehended.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris