The war against the illegal wildlife trade has received a major boost after the UK Government enforced stringent measures. UK Ivory Act enforced a near-total ban on elephant ivory sales from June 6, 2022. A near-total ban on the import, export and dealing of items containing elephant ivory has put the UK at the forefront of global conservation efforts. Elephants are commonly targeted for their ivory tusks and the demand for ivory is known to contribute to poaching, driving a decline in elephant populations. The ban will ensure vital protections for the world’s elephants by putting a stop to the UK trade in ivory. The number of elephants free in the wild has declined by almost a third, with the savannah elephant population plummeting by around 30 percent – equal to 144,000 elephants – across 15 African countries between 2007 and 2014. It’s estimated around 20,000 are also still being slaughtered annually because of the global demand for ivory. According to the recent census report, Kenya has a total of 36,280 savanna elephants, becoming the fourth largest population in the world after Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Tanzania. UK Minister for Environment and Animal Welfare, Lord Goldsmith said the world-leading Ivory Act coming into force represents a landmark moment in securing the survival of elephants across the globe for future generations. Thousands of elephants are unnecessarily and cruelly targeted for their ivory every year for financial gain. As one of the toughest bans of its kind, we are sending a clear message the commercial trade of elephant ivory is totally unacceptable. Goldsmith added: "The UK has long led the way in conservation and our ban shows continued global leadership in doing all we can to protect the world’s most endangered species”. British High Commissioner, Jane Marriott said protecting wildlife in Kenya is important for the people of Kenya and the world alike. "This ban on ivory sales demonstrates the UK’s commitment to tackling the illegal wildlife trade and conserving endangered species," she said. Marriott said the UK remains committed to continuing to work with Kenya to help government and law enforcement agencies disrupt the illegal wildlife trade that is threatening communities and species alike. The UK’s world-leading Ivory Act is one of the toughest bans on elephant ivory sales in the world, with some of the strongest enforcement measures. Those found guilty of breaching the ban will face tough new penalties including an unlimited fine or up to five years in jail. The ban covers ivory items of all ages, not only those produced after a certain date, allowing only a narrowly defined set of exemptions. As a result, it will now be illegal to deal in ivory items unless they have been registered or have an exemption certificate. The ban coming into force will now close domestic ivory markets, representing a step forward in leading global efforts to protect the elephants. Through the Illegal Wildlife Trade Challenge Fund and Darwin Initiative, the UK has provided over Sh 952 million (£6.1million) to support 23 conservation projects in Kenya since 2016. These projects include those which: train rangers, border control agents, and prosecutors; support legislative reform to strengthen wildlife laws that criminalize poaching, and help communities develop sustainable livelihoods and address human/wildlife conflict.