The family of  lawyer Evans Monari (deceased) is embroiled in a fight over his Sh50 million estate, with the widow claiming her in-laws want to disinherit her. Jackline Basweti Okindo has accused her mother-in-law Teresia Monari and one of the brothers-in-law of trying to disinherit her and Monari’s children. “I believe there is a well-orchestrated move by my brothers-in-law through their mother to impoverish me to submission and go on to disinherit me as a widow,” Okindo says. Monari did not leave a will to his estate, which made the widow file for grant of administration. It’s still a mystery why the top lawyer did not leave a will but wrote his own eulogy meaning he knew he was dying. Monari died on October 4 last year. He left behind a widow and four children—two daughters and two sons. The eldest daughter is 26 and the youngest son is 18 years. Through lawyer Danstan Omari, Okindo moved to court seeking to be administrator of her husband’s estate. Okindo has listed the following properties: 12 acres of land in East Kitutu Mosobeti, 3.7 acres in Sansora also in East Kitutu and Stoney Ridge land through a share certificate. Others include a three-bedroom apartment in Wood Avenue, Coulson Harney Advocates shares, Safaricom shares and Sax and Violin Waterfront shares. Monari had five vehicles—two Mercedes Benz, Toyota Land Cruiser V8, Toyota Ipsum and Aston Martin. The widow has also claimed that Monari had money held in four accounts in different banks. However, the mother-law has objected to Okindo being the sole administrator, asking the court to allow her son Kennedy Monari to be a co-administrator and list her as a beneficiary. But Okindo insists that her mother-in-law is well able and wealthy and doesn’t deserve to be placed under dependency in her late husband’s estate. “I don’t believe that it's my mother-in-law who is keen on being placed under dependency but rather my brother-in-law Kennedy Monari who is behind this objection,” reads court papers. She has accused her mother-in-law and Kennedy of trying to disinherit her and her children from her late husband’s property especially the two pieces of land in East Kitutu. She claims that while her husband was on his deathbed at Nairobi Hospital, her brother-in-law Kennedy tortured her by refusing her access to him. “Together with his other brother Geoffrey, he evicted me from my matrimonial home in Karen and went on to take my husband’s personal properties like laptops, title deeds and car keys,” she says. Kennedy allegedly listed himself as the next of kin when the lawyer was at Nairobi Hospital. She claims the money that was collected for the burial of her late husband, which came from the President, the DP and other top leaders, was Sh28 million, but her in-laws have kept all of it. “It was astonishing to me and my children that I had to use my own money to travel and even attend my husband’s funeral in Kisii when the two had kept all the received money,” Okindo claims. She says she has no ulterior motive but to safeguard her children, confirming that the insurance paid her Sh5 million after the death of her husband. She says her children are above 18 years and are aware she was paid and what she invested in. She further says all her children are okay with how she has conducted herself and the firstborn daughter, a lawyer, is contented in the manner she handled the succession. She claims that her mother-in-law has other children who are well off and should not be listed as a dependent in her late husband’s estate. She says Kennedy Monari is a registrar at Kenyatta University, Feronica Monari is a lecturer at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Geoffrey Monari is the CEO University Fund and Dennis Monari is the regional manager Kenya Airways Dubai. She also wants her lawyers to be granted leave to cross-examine her mother-in-law on the contents of hirer affidavit in objection. But in her objection, Okindo’s mother-in-law Teresia says her daughter-in-law has left her out of the petition as a beneficiary yet she was also her deceased son’s dependent. “The deceased used to support me financially by sending me money periodically and I have annexed the M-Pesa statement showing I used to receive money from him," she says. She says she had built a house and grows tea on the 12 acres in East Kitutu that is listed in the petition, but Okindo says it’s her late husband who built it, not Teresia. “The proceeds of the tea sale are deposited into an account to which I am signatory, however, she had listed it as part of assets that should be distributed yet she has left me out as one of the beneficiaries,” she says. Teresia further says that one of the accounts, a joint account, listed was opened by her sons for her so it’s not the deceased money. “My sons, that is the deceased, Kennedy Monari, Geoffrey Monari and Dennis Monari put together a joint account at NCBA from which they would take care of my needs as I am quite elderly,” reads court papers. She has also accuses her daughter-in-law of lying to court to get the order to withdraw Sh1.5 million for her children’s general upkeep. “The petitioner failed to mention to this court that she had received an insurance payout of Sh5 million from AAR insurance as insurance payout,” Teresia says. She says her daughter-in-law should certainly be using that insurance money for the children's general upkeep. Teresia accuses her daughter-in-law of obtaining the Sh1.5 million through deception and material concealment of facts and wants her to account for the money. She is asking the court not to allow her access to any more of her son’s assets. She does not want her daughter-in-law to be an administrator of her late son’s estate saying she does not trust that she will take care of her interest in the estate. Edited by A.N