Ugly scenes were witnessed in Athi River town after goons attacked a Mavoko parliamentary seat candidate in broad daylight. Daniel Mbevi was saved by his bodyguards who whisked him from the youths who were baying for his blood for holding his political campaigns at Makadara shopping centre in Athi River, Machakos County on Friday. He is contesting for the seat on an independent ticket. Mbevi who is the incumbent Mlolongo/Syokimau MCA sought refuge inside a shop within the centre before he was rescued by officers from Athi River police station. "We whisked him from tens of goons who were baying for his life and dashed into the shop, the doors were then locked to deter the youth from storming in to smoke him out," one of the bodyguards told the press. They addressed the press at Athi River police station where the officers took Mbevi for safety and also to record his statement. Police responded in time after they got information that there was fracas in Makadara shopping centre and the MP candidate's life was in danger. Anti riot officers lobbed teargas to disperse the public before they rescued him. Mbevi was escorted to a waiting police land cruiser that had ferried the officers to the scene under tight security. The politician's vehicles and campaign team were all assembled by the officers and escorted to Athi River police station. Mbevi together with his ODM counterpart Antony Ngunga condemned the incident. Mbevi said he was attacked on his way home after he successfully held meet the people tours within Athi River Town and its environs. He said he was injured during the attack and sought medication at Shalom Community hospital, Athi River branch. "I was going back home from my meet the people tour in Athi River. I meet a group of goons armed with stones, machetes and knives and holding posters belonging to another candidate coming to face me. They clashed with my supporters. From there, I sought refuge in a shop where I was rescued by officers from Athi River police station," Mbevi said. He blamed the attacks on a local MP. He claimed it was the second time to be attacked by the MP's supporters. "I was escorted to Athi police station to record statement. I got injured on my right hand. Some of my supporters also got injured," Mbevi said. "It's my second time to be attacked by the MP's supporters. In the first incident, I was attacked in Mlolongo where we had a meeting. His supporters attacked mine and I had to flee just the way I did today... I reported the matter to Athi River police station but never pursued the case. We met, reconciled and agreed to have peaceful campaigns." Mbevi vowed to pursue the matter through legal process arguing that he had a right of movement and to campaign just like other candidates without being attacked. Ngunga said he was also attacked by the same MP in Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga's recent political rally in Athi River town. "Everyone has a right to access anyone they want anywhere, it's my right," he said. Ngunga said the politician's act of hooliganism must be condemned and action taken. "What is happening to Mbevi can happen to anyone of us. The MP's car's were attacked including their occupants. This is wrong, we can't accept it. Everyone has a right of movement," the ODM parliamentary candidate said. "Some youths banged my car while it was passing Makadara to drop one of my supporters, I won't accept that," he added. Ngunga said they needed to conduct politics of cooperation and not of enmity. He cautioned youths from allowing themselves to be misused by politicians.