Catholic bishops on Sunday broke their silence on the ongoing political campaigns and urged voters to reject outlandish proposals by aspirants. In a thinly veiled attack on Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah, the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops said Kenyans should not vote for politicians who are proposing policies that seek to liberalise drug abuse. Wajackoyah has promised to legalise bhang should he win the presidency, citing medicinal and economic benefits. He has said he will turn acres of farmland into bhang plantations and use the proceeds to pay off Kenya's debt. The use of bhang is outlawed in Kenya. Nyeri Archbishop Anthony Muheria who spoke on behalf of the clerics also asked voters to reject leaders who support abortion and those with the agenda of liberalising outlawed sexual behaviours including pornography. He said leaders who support immoral agendas will not have a conscience and spells doom for society. The clerics also want voters to reject corrupt leaders. Muheria advised voters to seek leaders who commit themselves to fighting the vice and who offer concrete action on how to do so. “We urge you to refuse to elect any leader who we perceive will propagate the cancer of corruption. An electable leader should detest corruption at all levels and serve as an example to others,” he said Muheria spoke at Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Cathedral in Nyeri on Sunday. A leader, he added, must be a person who respects God’s laws and who will promote the traditional African and Christian family values. Muheria asked Kenyans to elect visionary servant leader, reconcilers and leaders of high integrity. “It is important that we interrogate all candidates on their stand on ethical and moral issues. We can look at their earlier statements and ask them to express what they stand for.” For a nation to thrive, he said, it must be founded on sound ethical principles. He said it is unfortunate that some leaders continue to propose, in their agenda, the propagation of immoral and unethical policies.