I could have been dead by now, Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda said after being attacked by angry youths at Kirembe Grounds during Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o’s campaign launch. Ouda said that the incident was unfortunate and regrettable since he was invited to attend the function as a sitting MP. He said that he was targeted by a group of youths at the event. “I went to the event peacefully, I was officially invited but then I was left in the hands of goons who harassed, beat me and teared my cloths,” Ouda said. “I am just a strong man that is why I am still standing here today, three of my supporters were seriously injured during the attack.” Ouda has called for peaceful elections and urged that there should be political tolerance regardless of party affiliations. “I also want to urge politicians that if you don’t want someone to attend your events, kindly don’t invite them, because if you invite them, they will come," he said. He however noted that even as he vies as an independent candidate, he will still be marshalling votes for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. “We are going to work as a team regardless of party affiliation so long as you propagate the ideas of a Raila presidency," he said. On Saturday, The area MP was whisked away in a police Land Cruiser as police lobbed tear gas canisters at the youth. Ouda, Nyong'o, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Murang'a Women Rep Sabina Chege, Kisumu Women Rep Rosa Buyu, amongs other MPs, MCAs were from Otonglo market where Nyong'o officially opened the market. The chaos started when Ouda tried to make his way to the main dias, when he was attacked by the youths. His clothes were torn during the fracas. The youths ran after the police car ferrying the MP, saying they will not allow him to access the venue. Ouda attended the event following an invitation from Governor Anyang' Nyongo's campaign secretariat in a letter dated June 3. "Prof Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o will launch his gubernatorial re-election campaign on June 4, 2022, at Kirembe grounds near Otonglo market. This will be preceded by the presentation of the nomination papers to the County IEBC Election Manager at Tom Mboya Labor College from 9.00 a.m. The Governor, therefore, invites you to join him for this auspicious occasion," the invite read. His supporters criticised his ejection from the rally, saying the MP only honoured the invite. "If we knew this is what was going to happen, we could have not attended the event," one supporter said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)