Lawyer Miguna Miguna now wants UDA presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua to focus on the agenda that affects 50 million Kenyans while campaigning. Reacting to the Star story that had reported on Gachagua's pledge to revoke the blue police uniform, the controversial Lawyer told off the Mathira MP over such promises. He said Kenyans have more pressing issues to be addressed rather than focusing on what he termed as "sideshows". "Mr. @rigathi: This is a silly sideshow. No one asked you to change the police uniform. Focus on the agendas of 50 million Kenyans - jobs, human rights, democracy, rule of law, electoral and social justice. If not, shut up," Miguna tweeted. Comments by Gachagua on police uniform have elicited mixed reactions among Kenyans with a section of them condemning him for "disrespecting the church". This is after Gachagua said the blue uniform will be left for the PCEA church adding that it belongs to the church's "women's guild". He was accusing the interior ministry of not caring about the welfare of their officers when he made the remarks. "Mumesumbuliwa sana na Matiang'i na Kibicho. Ata ile uniform ya blue ambayo hawataki, tutawaondolea tuwarudishie ile ya Kitambo. Hiyo ya blue tutarudishia kanisa ya PCEA. Hiyo ni uniform ya women's guild,"  he said. Loosely translates to: "You have suffered so much in the hands of Matiang'i and Kibicho. Even the new blue uniform that you don't want will be revoked and we return to the old one. The blue one will be left for PCEA church. It is the uniform of women's guild". Gachagua was addressing the Kenya Kwanza county economic forum in Nyandarua county on Saturday during which he made the statements. Gachagua also took a swipe at Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and his boss Fred Matiang'i accusing them of intimidating the police and forcing them to support the Azimio candidate Raila Odinga. He urged the police not to bow down to pressure from above saying they will make right every wrong that will happen to them once they win the coming polls. "Tunataka kuambia machiefs,tumesikia vile munatishwa ati msaidie Raila kushinda kura ati msipomsaidia mtafutwa. Msijali, imebaki siku 57 tutarudisha nyinyi kwa kazi. Tunataka kuwahakikishia maafisa wote kuwa kazi zao hazitapotea." Loosely translates: " We want to tell chiefs that we have heard they are being intimidated to help Raila win, failure to which they risk losing their jobs. Don't worry, we only have 57 days remaining and we will give you back your jobs. We want to guarantee all officers that their jobs are safe."