The Kenya Wildlife Services has received conservation gear for effective management of protected areas at Kisite-Marine National Reserve in Kwale county. The gear will also be used in the community-managed areas along the shores of Shimoni-Vanga. The equipment was donated by the World Wide Fund for Nature organisation, which has partnered with Kenya Wildlife Service to reinforce the effective implementation of the Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Programme. Biopama is a European Union-funded project, which focuses to improve the long-term conservation and tolerable utilisation of natural resources in African, Caribean and Pacific countries in protected areas and the surrounding communities. The programme is jointly implemented by the Internet National Union for Conservation of Nature and the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission. The equipment donated includes two engine-powered speed boats, research, diving and data capturing tools. Some of them are gas cylinders, three computers, 15 propulsion fins, tape measures, water writing slates, buoys control devices and wet suits, among others. Kenya WWF chief executive officer Mohammed Awer said the equipment will be used in the exploration and protection of marine life and its environment. "The tools will enhance the recognition of the new opportunities and challenges affecting the conservation of the protected areas," he said. Awer said the pollution of the ocean life and ecosystem is still a major challenge. He further said the destruction has led to the rise of carbon emissions, a situation that has caused a reduction in sea productivity and livelihood activities of the communities bordering the ocean. Awer said with the rising cost of living standards, the ocean stands to be the key alternative source of livelihood and food security hence the need to heighten the conservation efforts. "With the war in Ukraine and climate change, we might not be able to secure our food systems from agriculture. And because of that, we must explore other means and the sea is the solution," he said. Awer said they have taken the approach of integrated conservation and development programmes in the marine ecosystem to maximise biodiversity and income-generating activities through the ocean. KWS senior assistant director Samuel Tokore lauded the WWF for donating the equipment. He said the tools will largely assist in research, monitoring and strengthening marine security. "The boat will assist in doing patrols, snorkelling and curbing illegal fishing," he said. Tokore said the Kisite-Mpunguti marine conservation area has a lot of rich resources that need to be jealously protected. He said the area has more than 250 fish species, including dolphins which act as tourist attractions. Tokore added that the Shimoni-Vanga seascape is very crucial since it borders Tanzania. He said the conservation has yielded positive results making the Kisite-Mpunghti marine national reserve to be recognised in the world. He underscored the importance of promoting conservation and the need to shun the use of plastic bags which has for years contributed to the pollution of oceans. Principal research scientist in charge of Marine and Coastal Research Centre under the Wildlife and Training Institute Dr Mohammed Omar said they are helping the community to enhance the management and effectiveness of the conservation areas. He said they ensure that the personnel within the protected areas are well trained in terms of data collection and assisted in drafting proposals and solutions to the challenges confronting marine conservation. Omar said they also help in the planning and implementation of various activities to improve the conservation and livelihoods of the surrounding communities.  (edited by Amol Awuor)