@ppcheti Fishermen in Lamu have called for a reduction in boat prices to enable them to easily acquire the vessels. A normal small fibre boat goes for between Sh700,000 to Sh1.5 million while the cost of the bigger fishing boats costs Sh3 million depending on the size and type of engine installed and the time taken to assemble. This cost, the fishermen say, is high considering the fact that the industry doesn’t fetch much in terms of returns. Speaking on Wednesday, Lamu Fishermen Association chairperson Abubakar Twalib said their plea is that boat prices be reduced to between Sh250,000 to 300,000 for the normal fibre boats. “We afford it since it could take us less than five years to save and purchase,” Twalib said. “A majority of us can barely feed our families leave alone afford Sh1 million to buy a boat. Reducing those prices will boost this industry.” Twalib said the high cost of boats has forced fishermen to spend years saving only to be told that the prices have gone up by the time they are ready to purchase. He said many of them are unable to acquire bank loans to purchase boats as they have no securities to offer in case they are unable to repay the loans. “As a result, many banks cannot give us loans to buy the boats. Therefore, a fisherman has to save money at the end of each fishing spree until they have enough to buy a new boat,” he said. Twalib urged the related agencies and bodies to intervene and persuade banks and other lending bodies to accord them loans. Lamu boat maker Saleh Ahmed said the high cost of boats is correspondent to the high cost of materials used in building them and that a reduction in costs is impossible. He said the fibres, wood, glue, paint and other materials used in making boats are costly and as such the price cannot reduce but might go higher. He however promised a price reduction as soon as the cost of materials goes lower. “The materials are very expensive.  Any good thing doesn’t come easy. They should bear with us, ” Ahmed said. Another boat maker Abdullali Sharif said there’s a lot of work that goes into assembling a boat that determines the end cost of the vessel. He said boat making cannot be likened to vehicle assembly as it is too complicated and that buyers must consider that when calling for the reduction of prices. “You have to put all those factors into consideration,” Sharif said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris