Garissa Governor Ali Korane has said Raila's 10-point agenda is good because it captures all the important aspects and aspirations of Kenyans. Presidential candidate Raila Odinga and running mate Martha Karua launched the Azimio La Umoja coalition manifesto at Nyayo staduim on Monday. “As a coalition we now have a manifesto, which addresses the challenges we face as a nation. I am confident that Raila is up to the task of implementing them, once he assumes office," Korane said. The governor spoke on Wednesday while rallying members of the Kamba community residing in Garissa to support his re-election bid and Raila's presidency. He said Raila and Karua are the best bet to tackle the corruption menace as it is well captured in the manifesto. Korane, who will be contesting on a Jubilee ticket, is leading Azimio campaigns in Northeastern together with Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. He said the livestock sector, which is the backbone of the region's economy has also been captured in the manifesto. "Issues to do with improved market, availability of quality feeds and supplements, improved livestock breeds emergency programme for drought as well as livestock off-take by the Kenya Meat Commission have been well captured," the governor said. During the meeting, representatives of the Kamba community urged the governor to consider appointing more non- locals in his administration. Korane who later met members of the Ameru community promised to be continue being steadfast in uniting all communities in Garissa, as well as ensuring equal distribution of resources. He challenged them to have unity and speak with one voice saying splitting their votes only works to their disadvantage. “You have the numbers that can easily tilt the equation when it comes to election. Unfortunately, you won't achieve much if you are not united as a community. Your unity should be your strength, which can be used as a bargaining chip in any administration,” Korane said. The county boss said he will meet all communities residing in the county in the coming days. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)