Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said that the Kamba community is ashamed of Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka's indecisiveness. Mutua said that the community has dignity and will only vote for the person who will change their fortunes. “I want to tell Kenyans that Kambas have a firm stand. It is only Kalonzo who doesn’t know what he wants. He has brought shame to the Kamba people in the country,” the governor said. He was speaking in Changamwe, Mombasa, on Saturday after a series of political meetings accompanied by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and a host of UDA aspirants. They were drumming up support for Deputy President William Ruto's presidential ambitions and the Kenya Kwanza Alliance outfit. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader said that Kalonzo had twice left Azimio and twice rejoined the coalition, portraying an image that the community is indecisive. “He said that he was not going for the Azimio running mate interviews, he later went," Mutua said. "He said he was going it alone and even unveiled his running mate Andrew Sunkuli, but they (Azimio) followed him in London, and he changed his mind.” The governor told the Kamba community living in the coastal region that Kalonzo is not a leader to follow, saying that Kenyans need a leader with a firm stand. Mutua urged the community in the region to consolidate their votes and vote as a block for Ruto, saying that if they split their votes they would lose their bargaining power as a community. He further said the DP has promised to absorb all Kamba aspirants and other communities vying in the Kenya Kwanza outfit in the event that they do not win in the next general election. The governor said that in the deal he signed with Ruto, the Maendeleo Chap Chap party is going to get 20 per cent of the government. “I will have three Cabinet secretaries and I will be one of the two deputy prime ministers. That is a deal we signed with Ruto that was deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties and in court,” he said. Mutua took a swipe at the Azimio brigade, saying that the deal they signed was never made public. “They have now lied to Kalonzo that he will be chief minister and that they will give him five CS positions. Where will these positions come from when we know Raila plans to retain most of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet?” he said. Mutua said that voting for Azimio was like inviting trouble to Kenya, saying that the outfit had no agenda for Kenyans. He said the Azimio brigade only wants to enrich themselves to the detriment of millions of poor Kenyans. The governor said Azimio was full of deceit and political conmen hell-bent on sinking Kenya to abject poverty as a few individuals enrich themselves. He also took a swipe at Raila, saying that he is not the father of democracy as he portrays himself.  (edited by Amol Awuor)