A multi-agency security operation has recovered over 200 guns and  3,000 bullets in ongoing Operation Rejesha Amani in Marsabit county, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said. Four general-purpose machine guns and night M77 machine guns are among the recovered guns. Others are AK 47 and G3 rifles. Also recovered are ammunition for big guns, others used to kill big animals like elephants and those for smaller guns. The operation was initiated last month following attacks that have led to the bloodbath in the County for years. While assessing the progress on Monday, Matiang’i said the operation will be reviewed and extended timelines in a bid to net more arms. “We believe from the intelligence we have there are more guns than the ones we have collected. We will review this operation when we have around 3000 or so guns,” he said. The Interior CS said the recovered items are below that estimated by the government intelligence, which indicated that there are about 5,000 illegally owned guns in the area. "The government is keen to incorporate community and elected leaders in bringing sustainable peace that will allow the County to realize its full economic potential," Matiang'i said. The recoveries were made in at least six Locations which include Bubisa, Demo, Shurr, Kambi Nyoka, Jaldesa and Sagante. Last week, the team received four Carbine rifles, one AK-47, one G3rifle, one magazine and 13 rounds of assorted ammunition from Assistant Chiefs in Bubisa, Shurr and Demo. Area leaders in Jaldesa Location surrendered a Carbine rifle, one AK-47 rifle, one magazine and 20 rounds of ammunition. In Sagante location, the officials handed over one HK 21 machine gun and 78 belted rounds of ammunition, two AK47 rifles with one magazine each and nine rounds. Matiang'i spoke at Marsabit Police Station flanked by IG Hillary Mutyambai, and governor Mohamud Ali among other leaders. A chief and his assistant were among five people killed in a brazen bandit attack in April this year in Laisamis, indicating how ambush tit-for-tat attacks have grown more daring by the day. “We are going to carry on a raft of other measures to ensure Marsabit remains peaceful…we don’t want temporary peace,” Matiang'i said. He said that the conflicts have been fueled by politics, and proximity to the border among other challenges. He said that investigations are ongoing on identified suspects linked with gun violence in the region. He met security teams on the outskirts of the Marsabit town, women displaced by the attacks and religious leaders. He also took a brief stroll in Marsabit town greeting and getting feedback from residents. The multiagency operation is being undertaken by GSU, AP, and Special Forces among other teams. Dawn to a dusk curfew is in place as the security operation continues.