National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya on Thursday withdrew the Kenya Revenue Authority (Amendment) Bill after a heated debate on the future of the current Commissioners. The Bill that was at the Committee of the whole House was among others seeking to rename Kenya Revenue Authority to Kenya Revenue Service. “The principal object of the bill is to amend the Kenya Revenue Authority Act, 1995 by changing the name ‘Kenya Revenue Authority’ to ‘Kenya Revenue Service’,” Majority leader Amos Kimunya said in the bill’s memorandum. The name change was also “intended to rebrand the authority in transforming its public image and thus enhancing tax compliance through improved public relations.” On Thursday, Garissa Township MP Aden Duale moved an amendment to cushion the current Commissioners and Board members from losing their jobs. The amendment sought to have the current commissioners to be in office for the unexpired period of the term and then the new members shall be recruited. Duale argued that the name change will make the entity a totally different body and the current Commissioners and Board will have to leave office. “We must insulate the current Commissioner General and Board in a transition way that change of name does not affect their current status so they will be in the office until the expiry of time,” Duale said. “If this House approves the change of name from Kenya Revenue Authority to Kenya Revenue Service then that is a different body.” Kimunya opposed Duale’s amendments, saying the current Commission and Board are already protected in the Bill, a position the Garissa Township MP opposed. “While I agree with the need for protection, I had already provided for that. Every job is already saved,” Kimunya pleaded. Unable to get a middle ground, Kimunya informed the Speaker of his decision to withdraw the Bill in line with Standing Order 140 bringing an end to the heated debate. “Because this is such a fundamental alteration of the original bill, I want to save this house time to debate the Bill by withdrawing the Bill,” Kimunya said.