@robertomollo3 Efforts to increase fish production in Lake Victoria have been intensified through the introduction of cage fish farming in Nyanza. There has been a shortage of fish in the region and entire country, a situation which has led to the importation of fish from China. Major towns such as Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya are flooded with fish from China, Lake Turkana and Lake Naivasha. Homa Bay has been experiencing a shortage of the commodity despite having about 60 per cent of Lake Victoria. Tilapia fish from Lake Turkana is sold in several markets in Homa Bay. A tilapia fish from Lake Turkana is sold at a lower price compared to those from Lake Victoria. This occurs due to a shortage in Lake Victoria. But Victory Farms at Rowo village in Sindo, Suba South constituency, has come out to deal with the fish deficit. The firm has set up fish cages in Lake Victoria to bridge the gap in fish production in the region. With about 500 cages, the organisation is optimistic that they are going to reduce the fish shortage in Nyanza and the entire country. Speaking at the firm's compound, Victory Farms’ chief aquaculture officer Steve Moran and chief development officer Caesar Asiyo said they have the capacity of producing 8000 metric tons of fish annually. On Wednesday, the organisation celebrated its founders’ day. The company started its operations at Rowo in 2015. Moran said they expect to reduce the fish shortage significantly. “We are creating significant impact in reducing fish shortage,” Moran said. Asiyo said they are also producing fingerlings which they give to local farmers who undertake fish production in ponds in Homa Bay, Siaya, Migori and Kisumu. He said the fingerlings are distributed to the farmers free of charge as a corporate social responsibility. “We undertake several activities to empower residents,” Asiyo said. He said they are working together with the community for symbiotic gains. Michael Omondi, the coordinator of the Aquaculture Business Development Programme said Kenya currently has a fish deficit of 400,000 metric tons of fish per annum. The programme is a government project for promoting fish farming Omondi said Victory Farms is helping in bridging the gap in fish production and Kenya. “Victory Farms’ fish is supplied both within Homa Bay and outside the county. We are optimistic that their efforts are making a good impact in curbing fish deficit,” he said. Omondi encouraged residents to venture into fish farming to reduce fish from outside Lake Victoria. “Consumers say fish from Lake Victoria are more delicious than fish from outside. Let us embark on fish production to bridge the gap and prevent fish importation,” Omondi said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris