Trans Nzoia County Woman representative race has now taken shape following the clearance of various candidates by the IEBC. Addressing the media after being cleared, incumbent Janet Nangabo has asked politicians vying for elective seats in the County not to misuse youths during campaigns. "Don’t accept to be misused by those seeking elective seats through unleashing terror on other candidates and their supporters during the campaigns," she asked the youths. She spoke in an interview with the Star at the National Museums of Kenya in Kitale on Thursday after being cleared. Nangabo thanked the electoral body for clearing her and pledged to adhere to the commission’s code of conduct. She challenged the youths to keenly follow and sieve through manifestos of various candidates instead of blindly following warmongers. "Do not agree to be used by a crop of political leaders who do not have your interests at heart,” Ms Nangabo said. She challenged security agencies to be on the lookout for those planning in one way or another to attack their political opponents. The legislator said the electoral environment should be on a level playground to guarantee a free, fair and peaceful election in August. She expressed concerns over growing cases of hate speech, tribalism and stereotypical messaging propagated on social media platforms. Former Maendeleo ya wanawake National treasurer Naomi Kemunto Okul is also among the top contenders for the seat. Okul who is contesting on the Orange Democratic Movement ticket and was cleared by the IEBC on Friday. “I want to thank God for enabling me to go through the IEBC process," she said. "I have an agenda of empowering women of Trans Nzoia to move to the next level. I’m promising to serve for only one term of five years and go for the top seat in the county." Okul who was accompanied by top ODM national and county officials exuded confidence that she will clinch the women's seat come 9 August. “I thank the IEBC, their process has been very smooth and fast. Now I have been given a green light to start my campaigns," she said. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) also cleared Dr Susan Nakhumicha to contest for the same seat on the Ford Kenya party ticket. Nakhumicha submitted her nomination papers to Trans Nzoia County IEBC election manager John Cox  Lovonoku who cleared her after a one-hour session. UDA Women rep candidate Lilian Chebet Siyoi also submitted her nomination papers. She said her number one priority if elected would be to unite all residents of the cosmopolitan county irrespective of tribal and political party affiliation. "I will endeavour to people from all communities united to fast-track rapid development. There is a need to put up our heads together through public participation to come up with viable developmental projects," she said. Democratic Action Party candidate Fanice Khatundi presented her papers before she went round Kitale Town to campaign for her bid. Jubilee Candidate Susan Nelima Murumba was also given nod to run for the hotly contested seat. "We will make sure to deliver our votes to our governorship flag bearer George Natembeya and our presidential candidate  Raila Odinga.  I am confident of clinching the women's rep seat here in Trans Nzoia," said Mrs  Murumba. National Vision Party candidate Gladys Mulati and Eunice Karanja of The Service Party ( TSP) which is allied to former agriculture cabinet secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri were also cleared. Mulati said she had signed up to subscribe to the electoral code of conduct and asked her competitors to strictly observe it to avoid its breach. "I’m campaigning on the platform of women empowerment and am not going to give out any amount of money in order to get votes. We must change the perception among our people that minus handouts there is no vote," she said. Karanja who was the last to be cleared, pleaded with the electorate to allow her to become their servant in the legislative assembly. She said she would carry out campaigns peacefully and asked her competitors to follow suit.