As the clock continues to tick towards the August 9 General Election, so are the candidates for various seats becoming nervous. This is not, however, the case with Kericho UDA woman representative Beatrice Kemei who is having a smooth ride as she counts the days to the poll. Kemei, a former Rural electrification, and renewable energy (REREC) member floored all her rivals to fly the party's ticket. As Kericho residents will be going to the ballot, Kemei is emerging as the sole contestant for the seat. The candidate garnered 87,182 votes against incumbent Florence Bore who got 64,651 in the nomination. Millicent Too came third with 28,148 while Emily Kirui scored 12,509 and Beatrice Chirchir got 11,819. Lucy Ngeny who was also in the race managed 3,536 votes. Fearing further humiliation, none of the losers opted for an alternative to run on the independent ticket. Most threw their weight behind Kemei. On Friday during a Kenya Kwanza women Forum at Nyayo stadium, Kemei received a special mention from Deputy President William Ruto attracting a standing ovation. A sneak view of her curriculum vitae shows that she earned her bachelor's degree in education from Kenyatta University in 1994. In 2015, Kemei added another feather to his cap after completing her Masters' degree in environmental planning and management from the same university. In 2019, she was also appointed the vice-chairperson of the Kericho municipal board, a position she held until February. Kericho IEBC returning officer Jackeline Osiemo has confirmed that Kemei is the only candidate cleared for the seat. This means there will be no election for the particular seat in the county but only five ballot boxes making her one of the few to occupy an elective seat without going through a poll. Osiemo will now write to the commission notifying them of the development forming basis for the gazettement of her name as the only candidate for the seat. The commission is expected to gazette names of all candidates to participate in the upcoming poll once the pending court cases facing some individuals have been finalized. Commission's chairperson Wafula Chebukati, a week ago urged the court to expedite the hearing and determination of the cases to allow them to prepare the ballot paper to be used. "We would wish that the cases be heard as soon as possible within this framework of two weeks before we begin the process of preparing the ballot papers,” Chebukati said at the Bomas. In the run-up to the 2017 poll, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa running for the Jubilee party became the first legislator in the 12th Parliament to also get elected unopposed. In 2014, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was also elected unopposed in what would have been a by-election following the death of Jossy Ngugi. Current Garissa senator Abdul Haji is another legislator whose name was gazetted by IEBC in February last year after it became evident he had no rivals. Upon completion of higher education, she taught in various high schools in Kericho and Nairobi including Parklands Arya Girls'. Kemei, a mother of four, also served as an NSSF compliance officer. In an interview, Kemei said she is passionate about women and youth empowerment. "We are going to provide resources, do capacity building, create and strengthen self-help groups," she said. She added, "When we empower women, we are empowering the society."