Two voters from Gem constituency have threatened to sue the IEBC over alleged plans to clear Jalang’o Midiwo to run for the MP seat on a Narc Kenya ticket. However, the commission has denied such plans. In a letter to the Gem constituency returning officer Ezekiel Juma and copied to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati, Kevin Sijenyi and Maxwell Ojwang alleged a plot to clear Midiwo contrary to the law. “We are reliably informed that your office is considering and accepting nomination papers for Midiwo to contest the Gem MP seat,” they said in a letter through their lawyer Kennedy Wanyanga. “This is despite Midiwo having until May 27 been a member of the ODM party.” On Thursday, Juma said Jalang’o had presented his papers before him for clearance but he declined for other reasons. “The nomination timeline for candidate registration for MP was between May 29 and 31. So the process of clearing candidates ended. The person they are complaining about went to the tribunal currently sitting in Nairobi,” Juma said. “I did not clear Jalang’o for other reasons, not those raised by complainants. There are things he did not have so he took me to the tribunal. The case was heard and the ruling is expected on Thursday.” All political parties were required to submit their membership lists to the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties by March 26 for onward submission to the IEBC by April 9, effectively ending party hopping. This is in line with the Political Parties (Amendment) Act. “The matter is before the IEBC to decide,” he told the Star. Jalang’o is the brother of late former MP Jakoyo Midiwo. Jakoyo served as Gem MP for three terms but was defeated by the current MP Elisha Odhiambo in 2017. Sijenyi and Ojwang alleged that the consideration of Midiwo’s papers is a violation of the law that bars party hopping after the IEBC officially received the list of party members. They said the commission should be guided by the law and its own gazetted timelines. “Political parties were required to submit the names of their party members to the IEBC by April 9 and at the said time Midiwo’s name was submitted to the IEBC by the Registrar of Political Parties as being a member of the ODM party,” the letter reads. “It will thus be against the law and gazette regulations to receive, consider and clear Midiwo to contest.” Jalang’o has been battling with incumbent MP Odhiambo in court for the ODM ticket. He had challenged the decision of the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal that ruled in favour of Odhiambo in the case that challenged the incumbent’s nomination. Odhiambo had moved to the Tribunal after the party overturned his nomination and picked Midiwo as its candidate for the seat. In the letter, the two voters demanded that the returning officer stop considering Midiwo’s nomination. They warned of legal action if the commission clears him. “Take notice that should you proceed with the said clearance, we have instructions to challenge your decisions with the relevant Tribunal or Court,” they said. “We shall equally seek that you be barred from presiding over any elections within the said constituency and country and that you bear the costs incidental therein.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris