After bossing Wednesday morning’s 5.4km Lodia Shakedown Stage, Kalle Rovanperä believes this year’s WRC Safari will be tougher than any other event held so far in the 2022 World Rally Championship season. The 21-year-old Finn ran fastest through the Ntulele Conservancy-based shakedown which handed drivers and spectators a sneak preview of what to expect in the lakeside region of Naivasha. The Finn, like many of the drivers, noted that the conditions have changed and will be even more challenging than in 2021. “We did the Safari last year and it turned out to be a really tough event. But when we went through recce on Monday and Tuesday, we found the condition really different. This is an event we will have to be extra cautious because of the rocks, ruts, and the fesh fesh. The conditions remained dry and dusty today (Wednesday).” said Kalle. Kelle, who is also the FIA World Rally Championship leader, edged his nearest title challenger Thierry Neuville by five-tenths of a second through the nerve-racking warm-up which overlooks the picturesque Lake Naivasha. Sébastien Loeb savoured a taste of the Kenya terrain after 20 years and was 1.3 secs behind in his M-Sport Ford Puma. With thunderstorms predicted later this week, the roads could very quickly turn into treacherous mudbaths. Last year’s Safari winner Sébastien Ogier ran quickest out of the blocks with his GR Yaris Rally1 before team-mate Rovanperä posted the benchmark time on his second pass. "It seems that this year the rally will be even tougher,” Loeb said, adding: “I was not expecting such rough conditions as we saw on the recce and the roads are even softer than last year.  I have been reviewing the terrain on the clips from last year." He added: “I think, in some places, it might be good to be the first car on the road here. Of course, we will have some cleaning in some sections, but that is not the biggest place where you can lose time here." Takamoto Katsuta and Elfyn Evans brought their Yaris cars home in sixth and seventh, while Puma stars Gus Greensmith, Adrien Fourmaux and Craig Breen rounded off the leaderboard. Neuville, who was the longtime leader last year prior to his retirement, said: “We love to come to Kenya. It’s a very special event on the calendar for us. It feels like it is pretty much new this year. I mean, there have been changes in the stages. But the conditions don’t look like last year. There are more stones, more ruts. Some stages have been repaired. It’s a whole new event again.”  SHAKEDOWN RESULTS Kalle Rovanperä Toyota GR Yaris 3min 42.1sec Thierry Neuville Hyundai I20 N +0.5sec Sébastien Loeb Ford Puma +1.8sec Ott Tänak Hyundai I20 N +1.8sec Sébastien Ogier Toyota GR Yaris +2.2sec 6 Takamoto Katsuta Toyota GR Yaris +4.0sec Elfyn Evans Toyota GR Yaris +4.6sec Gus Greensmith Ford Puma +4.6sec Adrien Fourmaux Ford Puma +4.8sec Craig Breen Ford Puma +5.6sec