The Azimio la Umoja Presidential Secretariat has been directed to interrogate the recently gazetted 2022 voters register and report back to the coalition council. This is part of the resolution of the  Azimio la Umoja One Coalition Party that was held at the KICC, Nairobi, on Friday. “Noted that the 2022 voters register had now been published in the Kenya Gazette and directed the National Coalition Executive Committee together with the Presidential Campaign Secretariat to interrogate the data further and report their observations back to the council,” reads the minutes. After interrogations, they will report back to the council next week on Tuesday, June 28, 2022. The meeting was chaired by the coalition's presidential candidate Raila Odinga and attended by nine other council members President Uhuru Kenyatta was expected to chair the council's second meeting, but he left the country on Thursday evening to attend the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Rwanda. Raila arrived for the meeting a few minutes before 11 am, joining his running mate Martha Karua, who had already arrived alongside other council members. Those in attendance included KANU chairman Gideon Moi, NARC leader Charity Ngilu, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, DAP-K party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, Muranga Woman Representative Sabina Chege, Abdinoor Omar Farah and Taveta MP Naomi Shaban. Suna East MP and the Secretary-General of the Coalition's National Executive Council Junet Mohammed was also in attendance. Mombasa Governor Ali Joho was absent with apologies. The council also discussed and approved a strategy to synergize the strength brought by each party to the coalition by rationalizing and harmonizing candidates in all elective positions and mandated each constituent party to implement the strategy. It was also resolved that the members ensure all Kenyans engage in peaceful campaigns. "This is essential for a united, inclusive, fair and prosperous nation,” reads the minute further. Also, top of the agenda was the review, formulation and approval of party policies to ensure the coalition party wins majority seats in Parliament and in all 47 county assemblies. The council was also meant to look into a report by a technical team recommending that some candidates be dropped out of the race to avoid handing their opponents in Kenya Kwanza a win by splitting votes. On April 21, Uhuru presided over the first council meeting at a moment when the tension had hit climax over the choice of Raila’s running mate. Today's meeting was the second one convened by the President. In a notice to the coalition’s council members on Thursday, Uhuru said the meeting will review the party's campaign strategy with an aim of ensuring its presidential candidate, Odinga, wins the August 9 polls. The coalition is also pushing to have 'weak candidates' drop out of the race in areas it has fielded multiple contenders.