Apple on Monday announced its next big iPhone update that will be available on selected models. iOS 16 is available for developers in beta from today, followed by a public beta next month. And the software will be available later this year, likely in September. Apple is bringing its fitness application to all iPhone users worldwide. Previously it was available to those who had an apple watch. Apple is jumping on the trend that lets you purchase and pays for it later in a series of installments. The feature will be coming to Apple pay with iOS 16. The feature will first be available in the US first. Users will be able to edit any messages sent through the messaging app to iPhone users. They will also get the ability to undo any messages that were sent by mistake. The latest operating system for iPhones will have a refreshed lock screen that comes with new widgets, greater personalization, and a new approach to notifications. Notifications can be customized or hidden. Users can also add custom wallpapers, change the date and time’s font and color, as well as add new widgets for weather, their activity rings, calendar events, and more. The company is also pushing updates to notifications and its Focus feature. Apple showed off a new car dashboard that it said would be able to display data from major instruments such as speed, fuel levels, and gas mileage. Users can change the car temperature from their phone. With the new MacBook Air, the 13-inch MacBook Pro is also getting an M2 upgrade. It will be available next month and is available to preorder now, starting at $1,299. It comes with up to 24GB of RAM, up to 2TB of storage, as well as up to 20 hours of battery life with a touch bar. The new medications app will let users add any drugs they take by either scanning a label on a medication bottle or searching through a list of medicines. People can create custom schedules for each drug they are taking and receive alerts to remind them when it is time to take one. Apple says the new M2 chip delivers an 18 percent performance upgrade when compared to the M1. It is more power-efficient than M1 and uses less battery power. 