The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) on Friday termed the order giving DCI officers authority to present charge sheets before magistrates for approval or rejection as unconstitutional. This comes after the suspension of a judgment given by Justice Anthony Mrima on the drafting, signing and presentation of charge sheets. Mrima had given the authority to the DPP but on an appeal, the Court suspended the order. LSK, however, has trashed the ruling saying it subverts the constitution. The society president Eric Theuri in a statement on Friday advised its members to object to any charge sheets that are presented in court without the consent of the DPP. "Equally we call upon the magistrates to decline the invitation by the DCI to accept or reject charge sheets and not to take us back to the dark days pre-2010," LSK president Eric Theuri said. Theuri said ODPP is the only institution legally empowered to institute and undertake criminal prosecutions against any person. He added the ODPP shall not require the consent of any person or authority for the commencement of such proceedings. "The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is an organ under the National Police and as such within the provisions of Article 157 (4)," Theuri added. "The directive by the DCI that its officers must decline to give evidence on charges filed in compliance with the decision by Justice Mrima is in contravention of a valid binding order by the Court and can only serve to create anarchy and confusion in the criminal justice system." He pointed out that the Constitution under Article 157 (4) provides that the DPP shall have the power to direct the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to investigate any information or allegation of criminal conduct. He, further said, the IGP is expected to comply with any such directions The LSK urged DCI to immediately withdraw his instructions to his offices as they are likely to create confusion and undermine the criminal justice system. Theuri called upon the DCI and the ODPP to cease fire and harmoniously resolve the questions currently frustrating the criminal proceedings processes. The Society said the ongoing disagreement is a barrier to the delivery of the institutions' mandates and a great detriment to the gains made in the criminal justice sector.