The World Rally Championship (WRC) hybrid technology finally hit the rough and tough Kenyan gravel in the lakeside town of Naivasha. But no sooner had the new generation hybrid-powered Rally1 contraptions reverberate on hills around than fans transformed “Vasha” into a 24-hour economy. Fans began streaming into Naivasha as early as Wednesday, well in time for the 5.4km Lodia Shakedown at the expansive Ndulele Conservancy. Among them were the ever-enthusiastic Ugandan spectators, who have been traversing the route course over the past few days to catch a glimpse of the flying machines. It was business as usual until Friday when roadside parties took control of the nightlife. The huge number of motorists on Moi South Lake Road and traffic jams, through to midnight were a clear indication of how fans were loving it day by day. From the WRC Koroga Festival to the now-famous roadside partying, it was mad fun whenever the WRC Safari dust settled for the day. Vendors turned the boots of their cars into mobile minimarkets where several alcoholic brands remained on display, day and night. To offer customers unique service, loud music from the cars was complimentary. Many of the fans who didn’t prefer to incur hotel expenses partied and slept in their cars. During the night traffic snarl-ups, ‘Boda Boda riders were the busiest lot. Local vendors also made a killing by hawking foodstuffs on the Moi South Lake Road. Last year, the Safari generated close to Sh6b to the Kenyan economy and this figure is bound to increase with the increased ferour witnessed this year. Hosting of the WRC Safari Rally events is a source of direct investments as well as a source of additional income for tourism. The direct investments in Naivasha this weekend were hotels, leisure, fuel and transport facilities. Income was created by the tourist movement that is generated by the Safari. Among the benefits Naivasha has reaped from the Safari include the recarpeting of Moi South Lake Road, tourism and indeed upgrading of the town’s hospital to Level 5 status. Many hotels are still under construction in Naivasha with the hosting of WRC Safari having been extended to 2026 by the FIA.