Migori Youth mercurial striker, Collins Okoth, has admitted he misses playing in the Kenyan Premier League a few months after rejoining the second-tier side from Bidco United. Okoth believes he stands a good chance to bounce back strongly into top-flight football in the next transfer window. “I've been approached by a good number of clubs but I sat down with Migori Youth management and we agreed I should be patient because a better offer might just be on the way,” Okoth said. The striker, who had previously featured for Wazito before being loaned out to Bidco, has been impressive this season, having found the back of the net 16 times thus far. He is currently third on the score chart, behind MCF's Ezekiel Okare (18) and Elly Esenyi (17). “I feel good to be among the top scorers in the NSL this season. Okoth joined Wazito on November 6, 2020, aged only 19 after a brief stint with record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia. The Butere High School alumnus chose K'Ogalo over arch-rivals AFC Leopards, Tusker, KCB and Kariobangi Sharks who were equally keen on his signature. This followed his exceptional performance in 2019/2020 NSL season, where he netted 14 goals to top the scorers' chart. Gor had roped in Okoth to shore up their attacking front after losing West African players Francis Afriyie to Township Rollers of Botswana and Ghislain Yikpe, who found a new home at Yanga in Tanzania. His departure proved costly to Migori Youth whose fortunes nosedived, as they gradually slumped and lost grip on the top four spots they had maintained in the first half of the season. His move to Gor, however, turned out to be a huge miscalculation given that he sat out of all the league matches, hardly making it to a match-day squad. Before the deal, Migori Youth chairman Abdi Aziz had shaken off pessimism whipped up by local football fans about Okoth's uncertain future at Gor, pointing out that the player was good enough to fight for a slot in the team. "He has to grow as a player so I think it is a good challenge," said Aziz. But things turned ugly on January 11, 2021, when the youngster suddenly found himself isolated after sustaining a serious illness that threatened to curtail his vibrant career. In an interview, Okoth revealed that he has been bed-ridden at his house in Buruburu Phase III after his right ankle began swelling mysteriously. He added that the condition had deteriorated with medics unable to diagnose the genesis of the malady. "I've been to the hospital but the situation is yet to be corrected. I've now decided to travel upcountry to seek help from traditional medicine men because conventional therapy seems not to work," he said then.  