Mombasa jua kali artisans are urging the government to provide them with protective gear against noise. Some received ear muffs from the Occupational Safety and Health Professional Services on Tuesday. Jalab Ashra, a doctor at Kisimani health facility, said out of the 12 people who went through the audiometric test, nine were most affected. In Kenya, Ashra said 80 per cent of workers come from the jua kali sector. He said they however cannot afford the equipment despite their vital role in the economy of the country. “Some have been doing this work for 10 hours daily, for more than 30 years. They spend most of their time at work and as a result they are being affected. That is why we came to talk to them on the effects and find a way of helping them,” Ashra said. He said the high level of noise has affected their hearing with some being deaf. “From the audiometric test, 75 per cent of these people are affected on a high level. The level of infection depends on the timeframe an individual has been working,” the medic said. Ashra said the noise does not only affect the ears but also communication among themselves and their families who in most cases do not understand the problem. “In most cases these people strain to hear therefore you have to shout when addressing them. Their poor hearing can lead to accidents at work and misunderstanding at home. “With the help of Osh Pro Services, we managed to bring 30 equipment including earmuffs (3M make) and hearing aid. We don't want them to be deaf. We are giving out this equipment because protection is better than cure,” he said. The medic said juakali people should stay away from the noise whenever they are not working, to avoid further damage. He said those who were highly affected will be examined and given hearing aid, according to the level of infection. “We will try to help them but we are also calling upon the government to train, build working areas and provide necessary equipment for them to work in a safe place,” Ashra said. Osh Pro international associate Abdul Suleiman said unlike those in big industries who are given protection, the jua kali sector has been forgotten despite their work benefiting every individual. The protective equipment, which can last for two years, costs Sh4,000 each. “This is a pilot project but we have realised so many people are affected. We will find a way of helping them because according to the law, all workers are supposed to be protected,” Suleiman said. Sparki Juakali chairman Daniel Njagi said their area, which has 300 artisans, is the biggest and supplies the coastal region. “I have been working here for 35 years, we have never seen anyone from the government coming to ask us about our needs. We have been forgotten. We have seen people calling mama mboga juakali, yet we are the real juakali people,” he said. Njagi, whose ear has been affected, urged the incoming government to remember them and help them boost their business, which was affected by Covid-19. “This work has helped me a lot but now the cost of living is so high. We get our materials from brokers who sell them at a high price. We call upon the government to help us get the materials directly from the companies,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)