With the conclusion of the Kericho leg of the Safaricom Golf Tour, action now moves to Kitale Golf Course this weekend. Dr. Kipkirui Langat won the ninth leg held at the South Rift’s lush par 70 Kericho Golf Course. The home-based golfer beat a field of 128 golfers to claim the title Playing off handicap 20, the Kericho-based golfer, posted 40 Stableford points in a fourball tournament courtesy of six pars and several bogies to claim the title ahead of his closest challenger, Erastus Orina, who finished second with 39 points. “ I am delighted to be named the winner of the Kericho leg. My win today came as surprise as I have just been in the sport for 15 months now. For me, every game has provided learning lessons and that is what has made me continue improving and performing well. I thank Safaricom for this great initiative of taking golf to the regions and making it accessible to everyone,” he said. Dr. Langat, who was also named the winner of the nearest to the pin award, scored 19 points in the front nine and 21 points in the back nine to beat a field of 128 golfers from Kericho and its environs. He joins other winners from the eight regions so far toured to battle it out at the grand finale to be held at Vipingo Ridge in August. Among the lady golfers, playing off handicap 19, Kericho’s Lady captain Eunice Korir emerged victorious after carding 37 points courtesy of first and second nine scores of 19 and 18 points respectively. Patrick Langat and Hellen Koech took runner-up positions in the men’s and women’s categories with 38 and 35 points respectively. Walter Ongondo took the top staff award after posting 27 points ahead of Collins Too (24 points). Meanwhile, Faith Chemtai from Nandi claimed the longest drive contest among the ladies with Dalvin Hunjan settling for the same in the men’s cadre. Among the guests, Kipkemoi Korir from Kericho, who played off handicap 25, was crowned the category winner after closing his round with 37 points courtesy of 22 points and 15 points in the first and second nine respectively. The Best first nine went to Kibet Too, with the best second nine award going to Lawrence Nyangena of Kisii Golf Club, who garnered 21 and 22 points, respectively. 