Dan Shikanda has retained his seat as AFC Leopards chairman after flooring his sole opponent, Ronald Namai, in a hotly contested election at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. Shikanda garnered 429 votes against Namai's 282 in the peaceful process overseen by the Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD). Gilbert Andugu bagged 433 votes to secure the secretary-general's seat after beating Robert Omusawa and Tonny Omusina who got 224 and 49 votes respectively. Oliver Napali romped into the treasurer's office unopposed. Shikanda has pledged a better future for the den, observing that the new Sh60 million sponsorship package unveiled by Spotika on Thursday will turn around the club's fortunes. Shikanda said they would channel a huge chunk of the money into paying salaries. “Our key concern is to ensure we create a conducive atmosphere for our players by promptly paying their salaries and allowances,” Shikanda said. “We've witnessed a mass exodus of star players in recent times and this deal will most certainly prevent such situations from recurring in the future,” Shikanda said. The deal will come into effect in the new season. The AFC honcho outlined some of their dreams for the 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions, including securing a permanent training ground. “We want to gift our loyal fans with a present they will forever be proud of and that's a training ground which our players deserve.” “It's a big concern that after 56 years of existence, we are yet to secure a training ground,” Shikanda lamented. Leopards had earlier been allocated a 20-acre parcel of land by former president Daniel Arap Moi in Kasarani whose title deed they are yet to acquire. Shikanda also said he would still fulfil his earlier pledge of rewarding each player with a house if they happen to clinch the league in the new season. On his part, Andugu promised to inject some more zest into the secretariat.“I intend to empower the secretariat and make it more effective in terms of service delivery,” said Andugu immediately after receiving his certificate.