Sweet-talking and persuasive Kenyan politicians are back to wheedling the electorate away with their lofty pre-election pledges. And as usual, they are dangling the carrot right in the eyes of unsuspecting local sports enthusiasts who are gladly buying into the fresh set of palavers, unaware that few of the previous promises have actually been fulfilled. When the outgoing Jubilee administration unveiled their manifesto in 2013, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto promised to build nine stadia across the country. The duo also promised to refurbish all the existing facilities to modern standards. But years into their tenure the promises seemed to have lost their magic until recently when the government embarked on a frantic last-ditch effort to deliver on the pledges. Nyayo Stadium is an outstanding example of the few facilities spruced up by a government now determined to make good on its promises in its sunset days. In Meru, the government has upgraded Kinoru Stadium at a whooping cost of Sh980 million — according to details availed by the Sports Ministry. However, none of the aforementioned facilities have been passed fit to host international events. Other than Nyayo and Kinoru, there is scanty evidence to support claims that other projects are taking shape. This, even as shocking reports emerged that taxpayers may have lost over Sh830 million in the entire exercise. Details emerged of how tender-savvy individuals may have taken advantage of ghost projects to secure a lifetime windfall. A disturbing report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in 2019, revealed how hundreds of millions of shillings went down the drain in the Sh2.5 billion stadia projects. Gathungu said no tender documents were provided by Sports Kenya for contracts on Kamariny, Ruringu, Kichoge Keino, Karatu Ndarugu, Wote, Marsabit, Kirubia and Kinoru. She added that the county stadia projects were procured by contractors without due process, adding she was not provided with original tender documents, tender opening minutes, evaluation committee reports and procurement professional opinions. Kenyans may have also lost Sh54 million paid to a consultant for legal advisory services for the construction of three stadiums under the Public-Private Partnership arrangement. An audit inspection of Kamariny revealed that the contractor had abandoned the site. The auditor said that the board had paid the contractor Sh160 million of the Sh287 million contract award. Ruringu Stadium in Nyeri was also found deserted despite the contractor pocketing Sh71 million. Kirubia Stadium in Tharaka Nithi was 85 percent complete during the audit review. The Auditor revealed that works had stalled at Wote Stadium in Makueni despite the contractor receiving Sh104 million while the contract performance period had expired. No progress was reported for the Karatu Ndarugu Stadium in Gatundu even after the contractor pocketed Sh69 million. While unveiling his manifesto at a colorful ceremony held at Nyayo Stadium on Monday night, Azimio la Umoja flagbearer, Raila Odinga, promised to straighten matters if elected Kenya's president on August 9. Odinga also promised to promote transparency and accountability in sports administration. He has pledged to lay the ground for the growth of non-Olympic sports as well as improve coaching standards in the country. The promises are indeed timely, given the current crisis bedeviling Kenya's sports arena including the suspension of the country by the world football governing body, Fifa. 