The IEBC has cleared more candidates to vie for governor in North Rift region. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich was cleared by the IEBC to fly the UDA gubernatorial ticket in the during the August 9 general election. He was cleared along with his running mate, Grace Cheserek. IEBC county returning officer Charles Mutai said the two met all requirements. Rotich thanked the people for nominating him during the UDA primaries and promised not to let them down. He addressed supporters in Iten town, pledging to deal with critical challenges if elected. "My administration will address the economy at the family level in line with UDA's economic model. which is all about empowering the people at all levels," Rotich said. He promised that Iten County Referral Hospital would receive more consultants and also act as a training centre for nurses, if he is elected. "I will ensure  this hospital is made autonomous and run by a Chief Executive Officer," he said Rotich warned his competitors of a grueling contest and urged them to hit the ground instead of "hiding" in hotels. He faces National Vision Party's Anthony Chelimo and independent candidate Moses Changwony. They were cleared by the IEBC. They all are seeking to replace outgoing Governor Alex Tolgos, who has also been cleared by the IEBC  to vie for the Senate seat. In Nandi, independent candidate  Cleophas Lagat and running mate Elijah Lagat were also cleared to face incumbent Stephen Sang, the UDA nominee seeking a second term. Lagat and his running mate participated in the UDA primaries and lost to Sang but they argue the nominations were a sham and designed to rubber-stamp a pre-identified person. In Uasin Gishu, former CEO of the Agricultural Development Corporation William Kirwa was cleared to vie for governor through the UDM party in the Azimio movement. Businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki had earlier been cleared by the IEBC to run for governor to succeed outgoing Governor Jakson Mandago. Buzeki and Kirwa will face off with UDA nominee Jonathan Bii popularly known as 'Koti Moja'. The region's UDA candidates for most have an uphill task confronting many independent candidates. Deputy President William Ruto is expected to campaign for his UDA candidates in the region. (Edited by V. Graham)