Kirinyaga university students Sunday night went on the rampage for close to five hours to express their outrage over the deteriorating state of security in the neighbouring Kutus town. The students paralysed transport along Kutus -Kerugoya and Kutus -Kagio as they lit bonfires and burnt tyres on the road. They also destroyed a vehicle and some stalls adjacent to the institution. They said the rampant insecurity is directly affecting them as most students have either been beaten, mugged off their belongings and in the worst-case scenario, stabbed to death. They said a criminal gang operating under the cover of darkness has been terrorising them in the area. Speaking to the press, the students protested a recent deadly attack that is said to have been meted on a third-year student late last week, a few metres from a restaurant in the town. The students led by their union president Julius Karanja said the student was accosted by an armed thug who brutally hit him with a hammer on the head as he was heading home in the wee hours of the morning. The victim is said to have been rushed to the hospital but later succumbed to injuries. Karanja who spoke to the Star lamented that attacks by knife and mugging had also increased at an alarming rate. "We are concerned over the insecurity state that is escalating by the day. Most students can not study in peace and are always living in fear of being attacked or their belongings being stolen." He noted that the situation is exacerbated due to the area of jurisdiction in which the main campus sits. "Whenever we go to report such cases we are always sent back and forth due to the school's geographical site. Our campus sits at the heart of three constituencies namely Kirinyaga central, Gichugu and Mwea. "So when we report our cases we are being taken in circles." The students' union secretary-general Jackson Omondi echoed the sentiments saying security has been a concern to many students. He now wants the relevant authority to embark on a crackdown that will lead to the nabbing of the perpetrators. Teresia Wanjiku another student official urged the county government to install street lights in all areas leading to the campus and hostels as many of the criminals' hideouts are mainly the dark pathways. She also advised students to take caution and refrain from walking alone during the night hours. "Let responsibility begin with us even as we mind about one another. Avoid using non-designated routes where the criminals hide. Also, be in a large group as you walk to the hostels especially during the night hours so that you don't fall victim." While contacted over the issue police county commander Mathew Mang'ira told the Star that they are aware of the situation and are doing everything possible to avert it Mang'ira said one of the long-term plans is equipping a police station near the institution which is nearing completion. The police station he said is 80 per cent complete. He added that so far there are two police stations within Kutus where the students can record their concerns. The police boss further urged the students to be swift in recording crime-related crimes at the police station so as to enable them to commence investigations. He lamented that most insecurity-related cases touching on the students including the most recent deadly attack are not reported in time. On the issue of the geographical location of the campus, Mang'ira blamed some individuals for politically instigating the issue. He said students have a right to report their grievances in the available police stations nearing the school. In addition, he urged the students to be alert and follow all the safety guidelines issued to them.