Police have warned that transporting chickens on top of vehicles is not only cruel to the birds but also contravenes the law. The National Police Service said law enforcers will take stern action against those found transporting chickens in that manner. "Traffic officers to be tough on this level of open and blatant cruelty. It’s also an eyesore," NPS said in a tweet. This was after a concerned Kenyan shared a photo of chicken being transported on top of a 14-seater passenger matatu. "Cruelty to animals. Unacceptable. And it’s a violation of the law," NPS captioned the photo on its Twitter handle. The Kenyan parliament passed the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act (2012) which was a revised version of the earlier law passed in 1983. The law states that cruelty towards an animal, both domestic and wild animal, is prohibited. "A person shall be guilty of an offence of cruelty if he cruelly beats, kicks, ill-treats, over-rides, over-drives, over-loads, tortures, infuriates or terrifies any animal," the law states. "Any person guilty of an offence of cruelty shall be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand shillings or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or to both," the Act further states. The new law is broader and aims to control the treatment of animals, including their use in experiments. These include committing violence on an animal, overworking it while unwell, starvation and denial of water, abandonment and poisoning. The law also prohibits careless surgery procedures, hunting and killing in a cruel manner, and prolonging the life of an animal in great pain. It also prohibits the placement of traps and snares that cause unnecessary suffering to an animal and failing to check on a trapped animal, as well as willfully poisoning of animals. It also outlaws the training of an animal in a cruel manner that inflicts pain and terror including the use of whips, goads, and electrical shocks. Performing acts of entertainment where an animal is made to suffer, including fighting or hawking of animals in a cruel manner is also illegal. Animal rights are respected globally. On June 1, 2022, West Ham defender Kurt Zouma was sentenced to 180 hours of community service after he pleaded guilty to kicking and slapping his cat. He was also fined Sh32.5 million and banned from keeping cats for five years. Zouma, 27, admitted two counts of causing unnecessary suffering to a protected animal by kicking it in the abdomen and slapping it on the head. The disturbing footage of the incident, filmed at Zouma's home and posted on Snapchat by his brother, Yoan, emerged in February. The prosecution told said the Thames Magistrates' Court that the 40-second clip appeared to have been recorded after the cat was blamed for damaging a chair.