Former Taita Taveta governor John Mruttu says he will prioritise the early payment of salaries of county staffers if elected back in office. The United Democratic Alliance candidate said the county's demotivated human resource has led to a loss in productivity and poor service delivery. Mruttu, during a public rally in Mwatate on Sunday, said service delivery at the devolved unit would only be made better if workers’ welfare is safeguarded. “I pledge to fix this in August when given the opportunity to serve once again by the distinguished residents of this county,” he said. He accused the county government of ignoring the plight of its workers by delaying their salaries, thus putting them into debts and financial crisis. “The advice I gave to my successor was to take care of the employees, keep them happy and they will take care of the county. I am coming back to take care of you and make you happy,” Mruttu said. The former county chief, who lost to Granton Samboja in 2017, is riding on projects he initiated during his stint between 2013 and 2017 to persuade residents to vote for him. “My administration will prioritise completion of all the stalled development projects that we started during my first term,” Mruttu said. Singling out the stalled banana processing plant in Taveta, the former governor said many can hardly make profit from the sale of bananas due to lack of a steady market. Once completed, he said the plant will help create hundreds of jobs in the region through value addition and processing of fruits, thus boosting the economy. Meanwhile, the Governor Samboja's administration has been holding a series of meetings with some county staffers in a bid to persuade them to hand him a second term. There are more than 3,700 workers in the county and every contestant is angling for their support. On Sunday, the Health Services department led by  executive John Mwakima and the county secretary Liverson Mghendi met with the County Health Professionals’ Welfare Development Initiative in a bid to seek their support. “The achievements made by Governor Samboja’s government in the health department are commendable. We are appealing to all the workers to support him in his quest for another term,” Mghendi told the health workers. Earlier, the Agriculture department brought together all the departmental staff in a meeting aimed at celebrating efforts in service delivery. Agriculture executive Davis Mwangoma said the governor's administration had strongly supported the department through promotions and hiring of new staffers. The governor seat has attracted a total of 13 candidates. They are incumbent Samboja (Jubilee), Mruttu (UDA), Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime (independent), Stephen Mwakesi (PEP), media personality Patience Nyange (Narc) and former senator Dan Mwazo (Wiper). Others are George Mwandembo (DAP), Agnes Mwang'ombe (ANC), Godino Mwasaru (independent), Onsemus Mwinzi (independent), Tom Mwakwida,(ODM) and Safina’s Francis Mwaita.  (edited by Amol Awuor)