Burnley have appointed former Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany as their manager. The Belgian, 36, had been in charge at Anderlecht for two years before leaving by mutual consent in May, having led them to a third-place finish. The Clarets sacked Sean Dyche in April and replaced him with interim boss Mike Jackson, who was unable to prevent relegation from the Premier League. “I’m excited by the challenge ahead,” Kompany said following his appointment. “Burnley Football Club is a truly historic English side and it is an honour to be appointed first-team manager. “I’ve been impressed by the board’s vision for the club which aligns with my own and I look forward to playing my part as we enter an important season.” Former Belgium international Kompany spent 11 years at City, where he won 10 major trophies — including four Premier League titles. His appointment comes amid Burnley’s financial troubles. The Clarets had received a £65m loan with American finance company MSD Holdings, a ‘significant proportion’ of which now has to be repaid after falling out of the top flight. Meanwhile, Tottenham Hotspur have agreed a £30m deal for Brighton & Hove Albion’s coveted Mali midfielder Yves Bissouma. The 25-year-old becomes Spurs boss Antonio Conte’s third summer signing, following deals for goalkeeper Fraser Forster and winger Ivan Perisic. Bissouma, whose contract with the Seagulls expires in 12 months, has made 124 appearances since joining the club from Lille in July 2018. The north London club were initially interested in signing him in January. He is expected to undergo a medical at Tottenham later this week and the deal is subject to personal terms being agreed with the player. The coveted central midfielder started 26 Premier League games for the Seagulls last season, scoring once. He played an influential role in Graham Potter’s side as they secured ninth place in the Premier League - the highest finish in the club’s history. Bissouma said last September it was not his time to leave Brighton but that he wanted to play in the Champions League, which Spurs have qualified for next season.