The National Cereals and Produce Board says it has increased supply of subsidised fertiliser to farmers in the high producing counties in the North Rift to ease shortages. The board has in the last one week supplied more than 20,000 bags of the fertiliser to its depots in Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge, Kitale, Kipkaren, Turbo and Mosoriot among other areas. There has been an outcry from farmers following shortages of fertiliser but Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said there had been a reprieve after more stocks were delivered. “More farmers are now able to access the subsidised fertiliser unlike two weeks ago and the adequate supply should be sustained so that farmers can look forward to good harvests,” Menjo said. All the companies contracted by the NCPB to supply the subsidised fertiliser increased quantities given to the board to ease the shortages. Companies supplying the fertiliser to NCPB include OCP Kenya, Fanisi, Maisha Minerals, Minjingu Mines and Baraka Limited. The board has so far sold 240,000 bags of subsidised fertiliser to farmers in the country. The board is currently focusing on supplying the top dressing fertiliser that is on high demand in various parts of the country. Spokesman of the board Tius Maiyo said they are working with suppliers to ensure farmers continue to get enough supplies. The government has set aside Sh5.7 billion for the subsidised fertiliser  which the board said is yet to be exhausted. “We have not exhausted the subsidies programme but we are facing challenges in getting adequate supplies hence the shortages reported,” Maiyo said. He has however assured farmers that NCPB will ensure smooth and transparent supply of the commodity in all areas. More than 32,000 farmers have so far benefitted from subsidised fertiliser in the North Rift region where many of them are still planting maize following the start of rains. Most of the farmers access the fertiliser from the NCPB depots in Eldoret, Kitale, Kapenguria, Nandi and other areas. Some of the farmers had two weeks ago stormed the NCPB depot at Turbo claiming officials were selling the subsidised fertiliser selectively and at night causing most of them to miss out. However Maiyo said they had investigated the matter and established that there was no fertiliser sold during odd hours and that staff were working within the law. “As an institution, we operate as per the law and during normal hours. We also ensure we keep the highest possible openness and integrity in our operations.” Maiyo said the board was keen to ensure it serves farmers effectively.   -Edited by SKanyara