Deputy President William Ruto indirectly hit out at his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday over his perceived backing of ODM leader Raila Odinga. DP Ruto said he was betrayed after he helped Uhuru become President in 2013 and 2017 general elections. Ruto spoke in Ruai, Kasarani constituency, where he was accompanied by a host of politicians from the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. Among those present were Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Senator Johnstone Sakaja Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and aspirants from UDA. Ruto said the cost of living has skyrocketed since the handshake between Uhuru and Raila, yet the pair did not seem worried. He claimed Raila rocked the Jubilee boat and stalled the government’s Big Four agenda. The DP told his Nairobi county supporters to reject the Azimio presidential aspirant, saying he has failed to help the President deliver on pledges. He further said the hustler movement will help to stabilise the country by empowering the common Kenyan. The UDA presidential aspirant said he will commit funds towards the creation of jobs to ensure the issue of unemployment is addressed. Ruto said the majority of Kenyans blacklisted on CRB were small traders, who take loans from predatory sources because they lack collateral. “My administration will pick up from where Uhuru left and I will set aside Sh100 billion as we had originally planned in Jubilee government, for housing, manufacturing, agro-processing and value addition,” he said. Ruto told his supporters that he knows Raila well and he (Ruto) will beat him (Raila) hands down in the upcoming polls. “My development track record for the last years as Deputy President is unparalleled. What has the former Prime Minister done? He is too old and should retire,” Ruto said. Mudavadi said that Ruto is the best bet to take the country forward. He said Kenya Kwanza will help Kenyans realise their full potential. “Don’t elect Azimio candidates. Ruto is the best choice for the country as he understands the problems that people have compared to those tycoons in Muthaiga,” Mudavadi said. Mathira MP and Ruto’s designated deputy aspirant Rigathi Gachagua urged President Kenyatta to retire peacefully. Rigathi said he does not doubt that Ruto is the most loved presidential aspirant countrywide. He further drummed up support for UDA aspirants in Nairobi, saying that they understand the needs of the people.  (edited by Amol Awuor)