Manchester City may have signed Erling Haaland and have Julian Alvarez available from River Plate for next season but the Premier League champions are only just getting started on strengthening the team, chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak has said. City reached an agreement to sign Norway striker Haaland from Borussia Dortmund on July 1, with the 21-year-old having scored 86 goals in 89 games for the German side. Argentina international Alvarez—who scored six goals for River Plate in a Copa Libertadores game last week — was signed on a 5-1/2-year deal in January and the 22-year-old will remain at the Buenos Aires side on loan until July. "I can confirm that there will be more players coming in. We are looking to strengthen the team in the areas that we need strengthening," Al Mubarak told the club's website. "As you know, every season some players leave, and then we have to continuously refresh the team. Again, we will always look at improving and strengthening. "I think we've made two very important additions already, but I anticipate we'll be doing a couple more. We'll try to go as fast as we can, but you know how the market goes— it's not always entirely in our control." City have won their fourth Premier League title in five years and, although the club are aiming to bolster the squad, Al Mubarak said manager Pep Guardiola would also look for solutions within the academy. "We're in a different position to the one we were in many years ago," he added. "We have so much talent available within the squad and the academy that when we need something, it's very specific and it's very deliberate." Elsewhere, Manchester United have appointed Andy O’Boyle, previously head of elite performance at the Premier League, as their new deputy football director, the Old Trafford club said on Tuesday. O’Boyle, who was previously an academy coach at United, will work with football director John Murtough as the club continue their rebuild. United have just endured a torrid campaign in which they finished sixth with 58 points— their lowest in the Premier League era -- and failed to win any silverware. “We are delighted to welcome Andy back to Manchester United to take up this important role in the club’s leadership,” Murtough said. “Andy has experience across all technical areas of football, from fitness and sports science to scouting and recruitment.” He has had coaching stints with Liverpool and England’s Under-21s as well as lower-league sides Coventry City and Wrexham. “I am thrilled to be rejoining Manchester United at such an exciting time for the club, as the first team prepares for a fresh start under (new manager) Erik ten Hag, and the Academy and women’s teams go from strength to strength,” O’Boyle said. O’Boyle’s appointment is the latest step in a shake-up of United’s operations, with Matt Judge resigning as director of football negotiations while Richard Arnold was named CEO in January.