Garissa Township MP candidate Nasir Dolal has urged politicians to carry out peaceful campaigns devoid of incitement and name calling. He said they should focus on the electorate who will decide, as opposed to resorting to clan manipulations to earn sympathy votes. Dolal spoke on Tuesday at the constituency IEBC office after being cleared to contest. The candidate commonly known as ‘Jofle’ by his supporters, emerged second in 2013, after incumbent Aden Duale. He said security agencies should act firmly on politicians and individuals hell bent on causing mayhem during the election season. “We have seen politicians crisscrossing the town, moving to villages and uttering words that can easily lead to violence. This should not be allowed, since Garissa town is a cosmopolitan and its security is very fragile,” he said. Dolal however said voters are wise enough and will make informed decision at the ballot in August. Unlike other constituencies within Garissa, the township has the highest number of voters at 55,000. According to IEBC, it is home to all communities and politics of the county has over the years been shaped around the constituency. Six candidates have so far been cleared by IEBC to contest for the Garissa Township MP seat. They are incumbent Duale [UDA], Dolal [ODM], Siyat Osman [Jubilee], Abdullahi Gabane [United Progressive Alliance], Abdullahi Yunis [Democratic Congress] and Hassan Ali Ismail of Kanu. Dolal however said he will clinch the seat as he is not new to the electorate who are yearning for change. “The real contest has just begun. It is upon us to go to the people, sell our agenda and convince them on why they should vote for us. However, at the end of the day we shall remain brothers and sisters,” he said. The candidate said his campaign will be pegged on equality development and unity. “You cannot talk about unity when there is no equality and you can also not talk about development when the people are not united. These are very important aspects that go hand in hand,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)