The Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti, on Friday, urged detectives to take advantage of the newly commissioned DCI National Forensic Laboratory. He also urged them to learn a contemporary management course at the DCI academy. Kinoti encouraged the officers to apply the skills that they had acquired during their course in assisting their respective agencies to manage crime scenes professionally. "Every contact in a scene of crime leaves a trace and how you manage and process a scene greatly determines the outcome of your investigations," he said. Kinoti acknowledged the support that the DCI has continued to receive from the German government through the GIZ program. He noted that it has not only enhanced the effectiveness of the officers in the performance of their duties but has also given them the much-needed impetus to work smart and produce the desired results expeditiously. "In particular, the Anti-Terrorism and Forensics units have been the biggest beneficiaries of GIZ’s magnanimity, through training and exchange programmes that have been offered to our detectives locally and abroad," Kinoti added. Further, he said the knowledge detectives have acquired has been crucial in destabilizing terror cells in the country. He added that it has helped in the consolidation of crucial evidence, required to arrest and persecute suspects. DCI Academy commandant Gatiria Mboroki noted that the training was a first of its kind in the region and welcomed more such programs to be hosted at the academy. She urged the officers to share the knowledge that they gained with other officers in their respective commands. The aforementioned lab was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 13. It was part of the projects under Vision 2030 and one of the projects to be completed under the 1st Medium Term plan of 2008-2012. The Lab is aimed at boosting Kenya's capabilities to fight complex crimes through interventions such as DNA profiling; weapons and ballistics testing; and document examination.