A warrant of arrest has been issued against a police officer at the DCI academy after he failed to attend court to take a plea in a fraud case. A Chief Magistrate at Milimani Law Courts in Nairobi on Thursday ordered that Police Corporal Kennedy Okelo Kajode be arrested for failing to show up in court. He is accused of obtaining Sh250,000 from another person with a false promise of helping her get a job in the National Police Service. He had been apprehended and put in custody by the officers from the Internal Affairs Unit on Wednesday, June 15, 2022. He was released on Sh20,000 cash bail. According to the charge sheet, the officer is said to have obtained the cash from one Frida Gathoni Kiruja on behalf of Grace Nkatha to help her secure a job in the service. But when he was due in court for the mention of the case and plea taking, he failed to turn up, and his lawyer applied to defer it for a week, arguing that her client developed an eye problem immediately after he was released from police custody. The advocate also claimed that the officer had to rush to an eye clinic within Nairobi City. However, she did not produce any documentary evidence to back her case. The prosecution opposed the application for deferring of the plea because no evidence was availed to prove that he was indisposed. The magistrate declined the request and issued a warrant of arrest against the officer to be enforced by the Director Internal Affairs Unit. The manhunt to apprehend the officer has already started. The case comes even after there has been mounting concern over the increasing number of police officers who engage in crime. Earlier in the year, the Independent Medico-Legal Unit (IMLU) had raised alarm over increased criminal activities involving police officers. The lobby’s Executive Director Peter Kiama had said that several police officers have been involved in armed robbery, extra-judicial killings, and extortion contrary to their basic duty of preventing, detecting and investigating crime.