The worsening hunger and drought situation in Kitui county has prompted a visit by Eastern regional commissioner Evans Achoki. Already, the National Drought Management Authority has put the region at an alert stage. Achoki told journalists in Kitui town on Wednesday that he was in a fact finding mission on food security, adding that he would be in Mwingi on Thursday to assess the situation. “I will be looking at the food situation in Mwingi so that we can see what immediate interventions can be put in place,” the regional commissioner said. The commissioner said he was also keen to understand whether the hunger-stricken Kitui residents were keen to receive cash transfer as famine relief or they wished to be provided with actual food. Achoki’s visit to Kitui comes in the wake of an NDMA report last week that indicated that Kitui county was in alert stage, but was fast drifting to alarm owing to failed rains last season. The drought update reports said the prevailing May situation aggravated the food security and drought situation since the last March-May rain season was inadequate and poorly distributed across the county. Kitui, according to the report, generally recorded depressed rainfall averaging 41-50 per cent of normal rainfall. It added that the rain was poorly distributed in both time and space causing crops to wither and wilt. “The area planted with crops was lower than the long-term average due to late onset and poor performance of the long rains," the report said. "Crops withered during germination stage due to moisture stress, hence little or no harvest is expected.” The reported added that the water scarcity situation was likely to become worse going forward. “The onset of the 2022 long rains recharged open water sources at less than 10 per cent of their capacity. High surface temperatures and siltation are also hindering the period water will last,” the report said. The finding also said that livestock pasture and browse was insufficient as its quality and quantity had also deteriorated. “The available pasture is likely to last for 1-2 months compared to 3-4 months normally while browse can last for 2-3 months compared to a normal of 3-4 months.” Currently, the number of children who are likely to suffer malnutrition in Kitui county was slightly above normal, the report said. “The percentage of children at risk of malnutrition are on an increasing trend following deteriorating household purchasing power, high staple food prices and depletion of household food stocks.”  (edited by Amol Awuor)