At least three suspects were Wednesday arrested and a security guard for Nairobi Woman representative Esther Pasaris rescued in a standoff over money in Kibarage, Nairobi. The campaign security agent had been held hostage by a group that demanded money from the MP before releasing him. Police said the gang wanted Sh100,000 from the MP as ransom. This prompted the legislator to report the matter of abduction and extortion at the Gigiri police station. The agent is said to have been held hostage on June 1, before the abductors made calls to Passaris demanding the ransom. And after she reported the matter, the group continued to engage her in negotiations directing her to a bar along Waiyaki Way where she was supposed to hand over the money before the release of the agent. Undercover police officers accompanied her to the bar where they found one of the men there waiting to pick up the money. The officers arrested him before he led them to the Kibarage slums, almost four kilometres away from where the security agent was being held. Police said they rescued the man and arrested two more suspects as others escaped in the Wednesday night drama. The suspects were expected in court to face abduction and extortion charges as the hunt for more suspects continues. In March this year, the MP said her convoy was attacked while on a campaign trail in Westlands Constituency near Deepsea slums, Nairobi. Passaris then called on officials to intervene. "Our convoy is under attack. We are in Westlands near Deepsea. Help. The thugs have taken our truck keys and are demanding money to give back our keys," Passaris tweeted. She added that they are stranded inside the truck. "We know the thugs. They have broken our windscreen. Help." The MP is seeking to defend her seat in the August 9 election after she was cleared by the electoral body. She did not respond to our queries over the incident. Nairobi police boss James Mugera said they have intensified operations in the city in the campaign period and urged those holding rallies to always alert police for their safety. “It is good to inform police of planned activities for better planning and safety,” he said. He said they have more personnel to cover the activities.