Elders from Governor Kiraitu Murungi's turf have endorsed Meru Woman Representative Kawira Mwangaza for governor. The Igoki council of elders led by chairman Ken Uji said they have to support Mwangaza to avoid a curse from their former chairman Salecio Kanyau, who is deceased. They said they had to call for a public rally at Kithurine on Monday and endorse Mwanagaza as per Kanyau's wish, since Kiraitu had allegedly refused to address their demands. Uji said Kanyau cursed Kiraitu and directed that Igoki should shame the county boss by voting for Mwangaza in large numbers. “For the last 15 years we have suffered a lot. We were issued with a division this year but we do not have an MCA. "We had requested Kiraitu to give us the division years back but he deceived us. He brought an administrator a few days to the 2013 election and withdrew him after election," he said. Uji said they have agreed with Mwangaza that she will allocate Igoki division Sh100 million like other wards. "She has also vowed to employ several of our youths unlike Kiraitu who only employed people from his clan. We want a university here too," he said. The elder further said Mwangaza has helped so many with her Okolea Kaana Ka Meru initiative. Mwangaza said she is more than grateful for the elders’ immense support despite the fact that they are from Kiraitu’s backyard. “I am here to confirm to Igoki people, they will have the biggest share in my government,” she said. Mwangaza said people have seen the light despite her not enticing residents with handouts and ferrying them to attend rallies. She said the people of Meru have mobilisied themselves out of love. “I feel like crying seeing such huge crowds attending my meeting without giving a single penny to anyone. I am here to assure Meru people, it will not be as usual. "Your love and vote will change your life and generations to come. You will get money to pay your debts. Be patient for the remaining 40 days. Pray, I am ready to be crucified but save Kaana Ka Meru,”Mwangaza said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)