Garissa Township Member of Parliament Aden Duale has said that the strained relationship between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto put him at crossroads. In an interview with NTV, Duale said while this was going on, he was still in denial that this was a reality. "I was in a state of denial because more than 40 times I asked the President, are you reneging on your relationship with the DP on supporting him for the next general election?" Duale asked. The former National Assembly majority leader said he had a forty five minutes meeting with Uhuru where he only focused on his position. "I focused primarily on the function of the leader of the majority. Before that PG started, I had a 45-minute candid discussion with the President. Of the many things he discussed about his deputy, I just asked him to get to the point, what do you want me to do. We have a PG waiting," he stated. Duale further said Uhuru talked about his good work ethic and asked him to choose his preferred person. According to Duale, Uhuru said some individuals close to him were calling for his ouster from House leadership accusing him of split loyalty. "For the first time, the President said, 'You know Hon Duale you are my best friend, You have delivered on your mandate. You are one of the top leaders I respect in the country, but the people around me are saying that you have a split loyalty" "You know people in my inner circle are saying even if you remove all these chairs (in Parliament), you have not cleared William Ruto, the big snake is still in the house and that is Duale. That was the time I opposed BBI," Duale said. The legislator noted that this is where President Kenyatta asked him to decided between him and Ruto "I said I am a Muslim and I became the leader of the Majority courtesy of URP as a founder member. All of Ruto's political life, he has done good deeds for me and my family. I cannot be part and parcel of a group that blend around you." Duale said he was ready to leave his leader of majority job because he could not keep up. "I told him President, you are my best friend, let me go. I am ready to relinquish myself as the leader of the majority. Look for somebody else," he said.