Deputy President William Ruto has questioned Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga's academic credentials. Speaking in Manga, Nyamira on Thursday, Ruto said that the former Prime minister should give proof of where he schooled, his classmates and his teachers. "If there is anyone with questionable academic credentials, it is your Azimio presidential candidate," the DP said. "Before you tell us anything, your presidential candidate Raila should show us where he schooled, his classmates and who his teachers were. Stop the conmanship," he added. Ruto insisted that the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance candidate cannot prove what he studied, but claims to have a degree. "I want to ask the people of Azimio, what did your candidate study, where did he school and who taught him? You cant answer all that yet you want to tell us he has a degree? from where?" On Tuesday, UDA secretary-general Veronica Maina poked holes into Raila's academic credentials, saying that qualifications for public office holders need to be looked at from a wider public view. "Questions have also been cast on the credentials of presidential candidates. You have seen a lot of headlines questioning the university that our biggest opponent Raila Amollo Odinga qualified from, and it becomes a big question that needs to be looked at not through the lenses of just one candidate, but a wider public question," she said. On Wednesday, however, the IEBC said that the former Prime minister met all the requirements and is qualified to vie for the country's top seat. Speaking on NTV, the electoral body's CEO Hussein Marjan said IEBC did its due diligence and was satisfied before clearing Raila Odinga to vie for the presidency. “By the time he was clearing him (Raila Odinga), he had certified that the candidate had met all the requirements. Raila Odinga met the requirements and to that extent, I would say that Hon Raila Odinga met the requirements,” Marjan said. Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula who had accompanied Ruto said added that the person whose academic qualifications should be investigated is Raila and not senator Johnson Sakaja. The Ford Kenya leader said they worked with Raila in previous elections but never saw his certificate. "We have worked with your candidate and we have never seen his degree, we don't know where he school or with who. If you want to continue telling lies about your candidate we  shall continue telling the truth about your candidate," Wetang'ula said.