Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said the government has no plans to switch off the internet during the general election. Reacting to a backlash from some politicians in the Kenya Kwanza team, the CS said that the government respects the democratic space and will not interfere. Matiang'i spoke during a workshop to launch the National Cyber Security Strategy at Naivasha on Wednesday. The Kenya Kwanza team led by Deputy President William Ruto has pointed an accusing finger at Matiang’i and his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru as the masterminds of a plot to interfere with election transmissions. But Matiang’i dismissed the allegations, saying despite the amount of insults and intimidation leveled against them, they will not interfere with the internet. “We have been accused of all manner of things but this will not tempt us to retrogressive steps like shutting down the internet during the election, as we respect the rights of all,” he said. The CS termed cyber- crime as one of the major challenges facing the world. He said the strategy will come in handy in addressing the issue of data protection within the security forces and business community. Matiang’i who also revisited the controversial Huduma Number issue said it was meant to ease government services by pooling all personal data together. “Those who went to court opposing Huduma Number were concerned with data protection. This will now be addressed through the Cyber Security Strategy,” he said. The CS further said the country’s security forces are not immune to cyber threats. He however said the government is keen on investing heavily in protecting its integrity from outside forces. “This strategy will come in handy in addressing the issue of fake news and abuse on social media, as we head to the general election,” Matiang’i said. Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai lauded the strategy saying it will help deal with the rising cases of cyber-crime. He termed cyber-crime as a global concern and threat saying between 2017 to date cases of cyber-bullying had risen sharply. “The new strategy will help us in dealing with cyber-crime and bullying as we move in to secure the cyber space, currently under threat from hackers,” Mutyambai said. ICT director Heston Malweyi said cyber-crime targeting minors is on the rise in the country and globally. “Without cyber-security there is no national security. As a county we should continue to strengthen civil-military integration,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)