Individual mistakes and lack of a tactical acumen from the technical bench was a big letdown in Sailors’ 3-2 defeat to Kenya Police, skipper Douglas Nyerere has said. Mid-table dwellers Sailors fell behind to Benson Wakhungu’s 12th-minute goal with the former Strathmore Gladiators player converting Robert Masibo’s pin-point cross. However, the lead was short-lived as Johnstone Indiazi restored parity for the Timothy Kamar-tutored Sailors six minutes later. Felix Opora doubled Sailor’s advantage in the 44th minute, forcing Police to ring changes in attack. Moses Cheplaiti and Brian Saina were introduced to provide the cutting edge. Their influence was instantaneous as Cheplaiti made it 2-2 a minute after introduction, finding the back of the net in the 50th minute from a short corner. Masibo was the hero as Police capitalised on their numerical advantage to poke home the winner six minutes from time as Abraham Musee’s five-minute yellow card proved costly. “We got beaten because the substitutions didn’t work. We also had so many individual errors. We were not clinical in one-versus-one situations due to poor decision-making in the final third,” Nyerere lamented. “We had a good game till the third quarter before our levels dropped. Back to the drawing now because we need to perform better in the second leg in our quest for a respectable finish.” Police coach Patrick Mugambi said they need to work on their endurance even though they have won six matches in a row. “Fitness-wise, we are where we want to be but we ought to have the endurance to last the 60 minutes. We need to watch out on Butali, Sailors, Western Jaguars and Wazalendo when the second leg commences. The intention is to reclaim the title we last won in 2017,” said Mugambi. Elsewhere, defending champions Butali Warriors walloped Wazalendo 6-2 to maintain their unbeaten run. The sugar millers scored two quick-fire goals with Moses Odhiambo and Amos Barkibir on the scoresheet in the 15th and 16th minutes respectively to give Butali a 2-0 lead. Joseph Kasua grabbed a brace for Wazalendo in the 21st and 39th minutes respectively. Odhiambo and Calvins Kanu extended the lead to 4-2 before Tristin Kariuki sealed the win with a double of his own in the 58th and 60th minutes respectively.