Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati has pledged to perform better in the second term if re-elected in the August 9, polls. Wangamati is serving his first term as the governor after ousting Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka in the 2017 elections. In an interview with the Star on Sunday at the Khachonge area in Kabuchai Constituency, Wangamati said in his second term as the governor, he will not allow MCAs to intimidate him. “During my first regime, MCAs allied to my opponents plotted to impeach me but by the grace of God I survived," he said. "I want to assure you that in my second term as the governor, I won’t be threatened." Wangamati urged Bungoma to rally behind his bid saying he is prepared to face off with his fierce rival Ken Lusaka. He defended his track record as governor saying the former office holder performed far way below what he has done in the last four yours. “Within the short term I have been in office, Bungoma can see change. I have been able to take over 7,000 children from poor backgrounds to school,” he said. He added that the first Wangamati scholarship beneficiaries posted good grades in their exams. “The entire county will still remember my administration because of what I have been able to do in the education sector,” he divulged. Wangamati also lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for the immense development he has done during his second term as the head of state. He asked residents to vote for development-oriented leaders who will bring development. “Devolution came to ensure that resources are shared equitably up to the ward level. I and my cabinet developed a strategy to ensure that resources are shared well and locals benefit,” he said. He added that his government, at least in every ward, has a project that is serving locals. “I have done much in the health sector whereby I have ensured that my voters are getting quality health services,” Wangamati said. The county boss asked Bungoma residents to consider re-electing him claiming he enjoys the support of residents across the 9 constituencies. “At first I used to have bad blood with Sirisia MP John Waluke but because of the wonderful job I have done, he has decided to support my re-election,” he said, adding that the Kanduyi constituency is also fully behind his bid. Wangamati also pledged to increase the number of scholarship beneficiaries in his second term in office. “In my administration, I want bright but needy learners to get opportunities and share tables with students from royal families, I will not leave a bright child to suffer in my presence,” he said. Patrick Wangamati, the father of governor Wangamati,  urged Bungoma people to support Azimio la Umoja Presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga saying he has a good track record. He said if given an opportunity, he will take Kenya to the next level. “Even if I am supporting Raila for the top seat but also consider re-electing Wangamati, my son who will be coordinating well with Raila to bring developments in Bungoma,” he said.