Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has taken a swipe at the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition manifesto, saying it failed to capture the issues affecting the coastal region. Omar said Azimio has demonstrated to the region that they don't have their interest at heart. "Yesterday we saw Raila launch his manifesto, it clearly demonstrated that he has no interest in the coastal people. He never mentioned the land issue nor the return of port services to Mombasa," Omar said. He was speaking at the Kenya School of Government in Mombasa on Tuesday after he was cleared to vie for the governor seat by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Omar is making a second attempt at the governor seat on a UDA ticket, which supports Deputy President William Ruto. He said only Kenya Kwanza outfit is capable and willing to address issues ailing the region. Omar said during his tenure as prime minister in the grand coalition government, Raila appointed Siaya Senator James Orengo as Lands minister, yet not even a single title deed was issued to the coastal people. "It is during that time that land injustices in our region thrived. I want to be on record again that only Ruto can return port services back to Mombasa and address the land injustices that have bedevilled the Coast region for years," he said. Omar also said his opponents lack the integrity to lead Mombasa. He accused Governor Hassan Joho and his cronies of hijacking the Mombasa economy, which is currently on its knees. He said his administration will address the perennial issue of county workers’ strikes in Mombasa, which are usually occasioned by delayed salaries. "My administration will also strive to ensure our health facilities are well equipped and staffed to deliver the much-needed health services to the people," Omar said. He also promised to improve the drainage system and supply clean drinking water, if he wins. Omar reiterated that his administration will complement Ruto’s 'hustler fund' that seeks to distribute about Sh150 billion targeting medium and small micro enterprises. Omar said he will set up a Sh2 billion annual 'biashara fund' targeting Mombasa MSMEs. "We are also going to reduce food prices by lowering the levies and cess charges by the county to ensure mama mbogas and other small traders get value for their businesses," Omar said. He was accompanied by his running mate Selina Maitha, sister to former powerful Minister and Kisauni MP Karisa Maitha. Maitha had earlier this year been picked by Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal to be his running mate. Shahbal later bolted out of the race to support Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. Omar said this is a very decisive election for the Mombasa, saying he and Maitha will offer the best alternative. "We are people of integrity with no graft cases or stolen wealth from the people. We are better placed to upset the current status quo in Mombasa," he said "Let us secure the future for you and the generations to come.” (Edited by Tabnacha O)