Kwale politicians have been warned against using children in political campaigns. This follows a complaint by county children's officers who said teenagers are hired as entertainers during rallies. They said children below 15 years are paid to hold campaign placards for certain politicians. The children are reported to go home late after the rallies, posing a threat to teenage girls who are hunted by sex predators. Kwale county commissioner Gideon Oyagi said the politicians must exercise caution and avoid using minors in politics. “They must take good care of children and show them the right path,” he said. Oyagi said the leaders should instead help the government in ensuring all children are protected from any form of exploitation. He said they should demonstrate integrity and discipline. Oyagi said the candidates should heighten vigilance and send away children from their rallies. Recently, county gender officer Nelly Amoite raised a concern that the rallies might serve as defilement dens. She said school girls get to interact with sex predators in such rallies. Amoite urged parents to be on the lookout to curb teen pregnancies. Oyagi warned leaders and parents that stern measures will be taken against them if children are found in rallies. He said as part of restraining abuse of youth by politicians, the government has employed about 6,788 for the Kazi Mtaani programme. Oyagi said the move is targeted to flash out the youth from campaigns and engage them in income-generating activities. The administrator said if the young people are empowered they will become resilient to social vices and be a responsible generation. Oyagi spoke on Tuesday during an interview at Bahari Dhow hotel in Ukunda after attending a safety training session conducted by the Media Council of Kenya. The meeting was set to enhance working cooperation between journalists and security agencies. Oyagi assured MCK that the security department will provide necessary assistance in creating a conducive environment for journalists to cover the elections safely and effectively. He, however, urged journalists to abide by the journalism codes of conduct in disseminating credible and fair news content. Meanwhile, Oyagi said the county security is intact and ready for the elections. “We are well prepared,” he said. Oyagi commended politicians for observing IEBC campaigning protocols saying so far none has misbehaved. Dinah Ondari from MCK said the council will continue to ensure the welfare of journalists is safeguarded and work in a good environment. She underscored the need for journalists to remain ethical and deliver well-verified content to avoid defamation.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris