Trans Nzoia county governor candidate George Natembeya on Saturday received a boost in his bid after he received an endorsement from the Agikuyu community. The community's patron Bonface Ndura Koimburi said they chose to rally behind Natembeya because of his unrivaled track record in public administration. Koimburi said Natembeya's zeal in ensuring their businesses were taken care of makes him the best alternative among other candidates. "After soul searching, we have resolved to back Natembeya because he has for a long time protected our interests," he said. ''Natembeya protected businesses of our community when he was the district commissioner DC in Murang'a during days of John Michukiwhen things were bad." Koimburi dismissed allegations that the former administrator will evict them from their workstations once he is elected. "Natembeya has worked well with our community and as the Rift Valley regional commissioner he was only implementing government directives" he said. Agikuyu professionals led by Lucy Nyambura and Simon Kairo rallied behind Natembeya, saying everybody felt safe under his administration. "We have chosen to endorse the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition candidate George Natembeya  for the 2022 general election,"  Nyambura said. The professionals endorsed the resolution in the presence of  Natembeya  and the community’s top officials. Speaking at the Kitale Nature Conservancy Natembeya said his government will accommodate all the people living in Trans Nzoia. "Trans Nzoia county is a small Kenya; all communities live here. If we form the next government, I will ensure that all communities get a share of opportunities," Natembeya said. Natembeya expressed concerns about the level of nepotism in the current regime. Natembeya said the county Public Service Board normally advertises for jobs only as a formality. "I normally tell people not to apply for advertised jobs because you'll only be escorting people who have been given appointment letters, what a shame," Natembeya said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)