On Sunday, Kenyans will witness one of those rare and spectacular moments in football when the top flight winner is determined on the final day of the season. After a viciously fought season that took the title contention to the wire, the battle has now narrowed down to two fancied sides — leaders Tusker and second-placed Kakamega Homeboyz. Both clubs have 60 points, but the brewers enjoy a healthier goal difference after finding the back of the net 38 times and soaking in 17 goals in return. On the other hand, Homeboyz have slammed the net a whopping 49 times and let in 32. Matches involving the two sides highlight the eight final fixtures slated for Sunday with Tusker flexing muscles with Posta Rangers at the Ruaraka Complex and Homeboyz hosting Kariobangi Sharks at Bukhungu Stadium. It won't be a walk in the park for coach Benard Mwalala's charges who must surmount an enormous challenge from the badly wounded Sharks out on a vengeance mission after suffering a series of losses in their recent encounters. Anything short of a win for Homeboyz will hand Tusker the title on a silver platter. The brewers require a win and a comparatively higher goal margin to successfully retain their title should Homeboyz pull off maximum points. The Ruaraka-based side will be keen to defend the title they clinched in the preceding season after dethroning record champions Gor Mahia. But they are coming up against the highly unpredictable mailmen who have a new gaffer in charge after sending their head coach Salim Ali packing after a string of lackadaisical shows. Posta had held on to the dreams of a maiden title for the better part of the season, but a poor run in recent assignments disorganised their plans, effectively condemning them to the 12th spot on the log where they sit with 41 points. Bandari, who fell off the title race after crushing 1-0 to Sofapaka at Mbaraki Grounds last weekend, have a chance to make amends and secure the third spot when they dare Kenya Police to a battle at Nyayo Stadium. The dockers are fourth on the log with 54 points, one adrift of third-placed Gor Mahia who concluded the season with a resounding victory over debutants Talanta on Wednesday. The rejuvenated coastal lads, however, could still go third with a simple draw considering their superior goal difference. Whereas Gor have scored 36 goals and conceded 27, Bandari have scored 40 and conceded 25. Playoffs-bound Wazito face Vihiga Bullets who have already been shown the door after wrapping up the season at the tail end of the log. Sofapaka will be eyeing a top-five finish when they lock horns with Ulinzi Stars. The city lads place sixth at the moment with 46 points, two adrift of Nairobi City Stars who finalize their fixtures with an encounter against newbies Talanta. Last season’s runners-up KCB travel to Thika Stadium to honour their tie against host Bidco. The bankers have experienced a tough ride and are eighth on the log with 43 points. AFC Leopards will settle scores with Nzoia Sugar at Nyayo Stadium. Whereas Ingwe are seventh with 46 points, Nzoia are 16th with 31.