Vihiga UDA senator candidate Jackson Swadi has urged ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to stop wading into local politics and focus on delivering 70 per cent of Western votes to DP William Ruto. Swadi said the ANC leader is beyond local politics and must play his cards well for his political future. “Mudavadi's political future is pegged on Ruto's win and if he fails to win, the ANC leader is doomed,” he said. Swadi said Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula is a political survivor with plan B at hand and is currently walking with his senator seat in his pocket. “We must work as a team to deliver for Ruto,” he said. Speaking to the Star on phone on Tuesday, Swadi said the ODM candidates were the only threat to them as Kenya Kwanza alliance. He said Ford Kenya, ANC and UDA, PAA and Maendeleo Chap Chap among other parties are in one coalition. Mudavadi urged residents not to embarrass him. He spoke at his Sabatia home last week. The ANC boss was campaigning for MP candidate Emanuel Ayodi, senator candidate Kennedy Butiko, Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala and governor candidate Alfred Agoi. They are competing against MP candidate Clement Sloya, senator candidate Jackson Swadi and woman rep candidate Jacklin Mwenesi. They belong to UDA. Mudavadi’s sentiments came after Mwenesi urged residents to vote for UDA candidates. “Ignore the rest. The party leader needs to have enough soldiers when he takes over,” she said. Swadi said they have been loyal to Mudavadi in the political arena and that he was the one who led them to UDA. “What came out of the party NDC on January 23, was an earthquake so let's move on,” he said. “If Mudavadi wanted to balance the county for him to secure votes under ANC party, he could have given the governor position to Bunyore.” Swadi said if Mudavadi could have aligned in that manner he could have been in a safe position to cut off ODM in Vihiga. He said currently, the ANC candidates who have been given tickets cannot face political bigwigs in the county. Swadi said for Alfred Agoi and Kennedy Butiko to pull the masses it will take them years.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris