Garissa Township MP Aden Duale has said the inferno that razed Garissa market on Thursday was planned and has called for a speedy investigation to nail the perpetrators. Duale was speaking on Friday in Garissa town after touring the market to assess the damage. He pointed an accusing finger at land grabbers, who he claimed had been eyeing the market. "Many people wanted to grab this market to privatise it but I have remained steadfast in protecting our innocent traders from these greedy individuals.” The fire at the Suuq Muqqdi market affected thousands of small and middle-level business people. The market houses vegetable vendors, groceries, clothing shops, food kiosks, tailoring shops and electronic shops “I have spoken to the DCI director George Kinoti and the security agencies to bring to book the perpetrators of the fire incident. This was not a coincidence, it was well planned,” Duale said. “I challenge the national security apparatus and the county to act swiftly and find the root cause of the fires. Serious investigations should be done. These hustlers should be the last to be drawn into the politics of privatisation of market spaces." Garissa OCPD James Ngetich said they were interrogating the security guards at the market and Kenya Power officials to establish the cause of the fire. Traders who spoke to the press questioned the timing of the fire which only happened two months to the general election. The same market was razed a day after the 2017 general election after the gubernatorial results were announced. Duale also hit out at the county government for doing little to put out the fire, terming the current regime as a failed one. “Unfortunately, the traders watched helplessly as their merchandise worth millions went into flames. This is a clear manifestation of failed leadership," he said. "This county government cannot even provide basic safety measures and equipment found everywhere." Duale said in the next government, he will advocate for the improvement of market safety by installing CCTVs, perimeter walls, floodlights and well-equipped fire stations. “For now, it's my humble appeal to both the national and country governments, well-wishers and members of public to support the victims of this unfortunate tragedy," Duale said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)