Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru has linked her latest predicaments with Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to her political stand. She termed the attempt by EACC to block her from the 2022 race as 'frivolous'. Waiguru is one of the 241 aspirants EACC wants blocked from contesting in the August elections. The commission claimed the leaders don't meet the moral and ethical standards required of public officers. Immediately after this was out, Waiguru tweeted her reservations about the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. "Were it not for constitutional safeguards that separate investigations, prosecution, and adjudication, EACC  on behalf of their Harambee House masters would have hanged some of us for moving to UDA," she said. She said this would be on the basis of rumours, frivolous allegations and cooked stories without the need for a trial. "Fortunately, culpability under our law is determined on the basis of evidence and not by them," she said. "Trying to manage electoral issues through institutional State capture won’t cut. Not in this Kenya!" On Wednesday,  EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak asked that the 241 aspirants be barred from seeking public office for failing to meet the moral and ethical standards required of public officers. EACC wants the group locked out of the August elections for graft-related reasons. The anti-graft body said the flagging follows an integrity verification process undertaken by the Commission with respect to 21,863 persons seeking registration as candidates for various political positions. Top on the list is Murangá Governor Mwangi wa Iria who on Monday caused a scene at the Bomas of Kenya after the IEBC left out his name from the list of presidential aspirants. The EACC cited two pending court cases where it is seeking to recover Sh542 million from Wa Iria and another where he is yet to take a plea after the High Court in Murangá blocked his arrest for allegedly obstructing investigators and destroying evidence. EACC has also asked IEBC to block Justus Onyango Juma citing fake details on his ID card. Juma was on Sunday turned away by the commission after failing to meet requirements. Governors Ali Korane (Garissa), Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), Dhadho Godhana (Tana River), Fahim Twaha (Lamu), Mohamud Ali (Marsabit), Okoth Obado (Migori), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) are all in the EACC list. Others are former governors Mike Sonko, Evans Kidero, Daniel Waithaka, Godana Doyo, Nathif Jama, Simon Kachapin and Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi.