Kenya Sevens head to residential camp next week at Moi Stadium, Kaasarani in readiness for the Commonwealth Games slated for Birmingham next month. Team manager Eric Ogweno yesterday said the camp will run for five weeks before the team departs for the Club Games in Birmingham. The Sevens tournament will run from July 29-31 for both the men’s and women’s teams. Ogweno said the residential training will focus on upscaling the players’ skills and strength and conditioning for the event which will be the sixth since the discipline was introduced during the 1998 Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. “It’s going to be an intense camp. We are looking to be in the best possible shape for the Games,” added Ogweno. After the Commonwealth Games, the team will break and resume training for the Los Angeles Sevens in late August and the Rugby World Cup Sevens tournament in Cape Town, South Africa in September. Ogweno said the camp will give an opportunity to coach Damian McGrath to polish up the weakness in the team as well as look at the combinations heading into the two major championships. “The coach has been here for a short period and this camp will, no doubt, give him an opportunity to be with the players for a longer period. This will ensure we are in good condition by the time we leave,” said Odera. Shujaa have had a disappointing season at the World Sevens Series, languishing in 12th place on the log with 37 points. Out of eight tournaments, Shujaa have only made it to the Main Cup quarters twice. Ogweno expressed confidence that there will be an improvement in results even as he called for patience. “I believe the tide will change. We are taking one step at a time. The camp has come at a good time to reset the strategy and synergy of the team. I believe,  going forward we will be better.” Vice captain Jeff Oluoch, who underwent an ankle surgery earlier in the year and missed the Singapore, Vancouver, Toulouse and London Sevens is expected to rejoin the team. Kenya Sevens players are expected to play for their clubs in the national Sevens circuit which resumes with the Driftwood Sevens between June 18 and 19 followed by the Dala Sevens between July 2 and 3 in Kisumu. The final two tournaments are slated for Nakuru and Kakamega on July 9-10 and July 16-17 respectively.