The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has acquired an Enterprise Data Centre in a bid to deliver  high quality customer service. This is parts of the authority’s digital transformation strategy and  service reform agenda. According to NTSA, the new data centre will aid system availability, better speeds, efficiency and reliability. “We( NTSA)  acknowledge the transition has occasioned slight disruptions to our clients and we are working round the clock to complete the process,” reads a statement by NTSA’s Communication department. The agency further added that the data centre will facilitate real-time road safety monitoring and reporting to enable data-driven road transport and safety management. “Our goal is to ensure our clients enjoy same-day service delivery in registration, transfer of motor vehicle ownership among other services upon completion of the migration process,” read the statement. Additionally, the data centre will facilitate real-time road safety monitoring and reporting to enable data-driven road transport and safety management. In June 2021, the authority deployed the revamped Transport Integrated Management System (TIMS) in response to client service demands, security and technological advancements. The new system is touted to be faster, more integrated, simpler and easier to use, optimised, secure and with better reporting capabilities. Its users are now able to track service application status online at their comfort. TIMS is an online platform created to enable citizens to access NTSA services conveniently. All government services offered by NTSA migrated to the platform in January 2017 to ease the access of services. A TIMS account requires a national identification serial number, a Kenya Revenue Authority ( KRA) pin, and a phone number to register. Its account offers services including; vehicle registration, car inspection, application of duplicate logbook, application of driving license, guidelines for training drivers, transfer of car ownership, online car search, reflective number plate application, and registration of physical or functional changes to cars.