The Taita Taveta gubernatorial candidate Faustine Mghendi has promised to capitalise on economic resources in the county to change the economy. He said a better economy will help transition from politics of lobbyists and money to community-based politics of engagements. Mghendi, who is vying on former CS Mwangi Kiunjuri’s The Service Party, said the county is far from unlocking its potential in agriculture, mining and tourism. He accused the county’s past regime of failing to initiate investment in the multi-billion shilling livestock, mining, agriculture and tourism sectors. “The county has had zero investment in these sectors for the last 10 years of devolution. Such sectors have a potential of turning around the economy of the region,” Mghendi said. He was speaking during the launch of Mwanda Mghange MCA aspirant Julius Mariki's manifesto at Mghange on Monday. The region, Mghendi said, is the only county that can successfully develop a livestock industry owing to its disease free rangelands. “Our plan is to supply at least one million heads of livestock to the Kenya Meat Commission annually. We shall thereafter set up our own meat commission at the county,” he said. The demand for livestock in Kenya, he said, stands at 14 million annually, while the country only produces at least two to four million heads annually. “There is a deficit of more than 10 million that is yet to be tapped. Our idea is to partner with rangers to raise the livestock industry,” he added. The agriculture expert said his administration will target to raise at least Sh72 billion from livestock production. The county boasts of more than one million acres of grazing land falling under 28 community ranges. Besides the local market, he said the devolved unit shall target other markets within the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa. According to statistics from the Livestock department, the county is currently off taking 15,000 head of cattle annually, thus leaving the international market underutilised. The county also plays host to the 15,000-acre Bachuma Livestock Export Processing Zone thus placing it at a better place for livestock fattening and export. The Taita Taveta candidate said more than 10,000 unemployed youths will be employed within the livestock value chain while hundreds of others shall be absorbed in the county youth service and other sectors. Mghendi, who is vying alongside his running mate Immah Kimuyu, is among 13 candidates wooing the electorate for the coveted seat. They are incumbent Granton Samboja (Jubilee), former governor John Mruttu (UDA), Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime (independent), Stephen Mwakesi (PEP), media personality Patience Nyange (Narc) and former senator Dan Mwazo (Wiper). Others are George Mwandembo (DAP), Agnes Mwang'ombe (ANC), Godino Mwasaru (independent), Onsemus Mwinzi (independent), Tom Mwakwida, (ODM) and Safina’s Francis Mwaita. He further said the county shall capitalise on the tourism sector through building of high-end low cost hotels inside the expansive Tsavo National Park. The hotels shall be used to tap revenue from the promising domestic tourism. “Rwanda has successfully tapped on domestic and conference tourism yet they do not have the Big Five like us," Mghendi said. We shall have low packages targeting low and middle income people from the East African Community citizens.” Through the conference tourism, he said, the county shall increase the bed capacity from the current 4,000 to 10,000 to attract participants for conferences and sporting activities.  (edited by Amol Awuor)