Peter Lwasa was the toast of the day, bagging a brace as record champions Gor Mahia edged Talanta 2-1 in a rescheduled Kenyan Premier League clash at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Wednesday. Gor Mahia gaffer German Andreas Spier said he was delighted with the outcome, adding he was crossing his fingers for a top-five finish. The match marked the end of Gor's campaign this season where they wrapped up with 52 points. Their final position will, however, be decided at the conclusion of the season. “We are happy with the results. Focus now shifts to the next season where we will be going for nothing other than the title,” said Spier. “We have a strong team and I don't think there will be a need for an overhaul in the next transfer window. We only need to strengthen a few areas and we'll be good to go.” Talanta head coach Ken Kenyatta said his team's performance was compromised by ill preparations heading into the match. “We simply didn't come to today's match prepared and the outcome doesn't surprise me at all,” Kenyatta said. “I'm upset that we had to gift Kakamega Homeboyz free points after we skipped our tie last weekend. It definitely interfered with our plans to secure a top-four finish,” Kenyatta added. Trouble began when the players skipped their last encounter against Kakamega Homeboyz citing delayed May salaries. Sources also say they are yet to receive their share of the prize money awarded for winning the National Super League last season. The players staged a go-slow for close to a week before turning up for training a day before flexing muscles with K'Ogalo. The encounter had earlier been slated for May 14 but K'Ogalo declined to travel to Bukhungu Stadium, saying Talanta had not listed the facility as one of their home grounds. Lwasa fired Gor into the lead a few minutes before the breather before pouncing on another opportunity to double the advantage at the hour mark. Second-half substitute Mathew Angel reduced the deficit for the host with only five minutes to the full-time. 