President Uhuru Kenyatta is scheduled to unveil new hospitals for the military, police and prisons in a race to address increasing demands. The facilities worth millions of shillings have been under construction for the past one year. Officials aware of the plans say the president will be the chief guest during the graduation event of the Recruit Training Centre for the Kenya Defence Forces on June 30. He will then open the Level IV Eldoret Regional Hospital (ERH). And in July, he is expected to open the National Police Service Level Four Hospital along Raila Odinga Road near the Kenyatta Hospital in Nairobi. He is scheduled to travel to Kanyonyo, Kitui County, in mid-July to open another Level Four Hospital run by the Administration Police Service. Kenyatta will commission another Level Four Hospital under construction at the Kenya Prisons Service College in Ruiru. The hospitals have been equipped. The institutions have been constructing hospitals in the past years after the Covid-19 pandemic hit. On June 15, the Vice Chief of Defence Forces Lt Gen Francis Ogolla presided over the commissioning of the Kahawa Garrison Level II Hospital at the Kahawa Garrison, Nairobi County. The Level II Hospital has been elevated from the Medical Reception Station (MRS) level, which has been offering health care services to soldiers and their families since 1964. The state-of-the-art hospital is critical in providing a wide range of specialised health services including outpatient and inpatient services to the KDF personnel, their dependents and veterans. The 35-bed hospital has a well-equipped maternity wing, which will be critical in providing maternal health care. On April 7, 2022, Kenyatta commissioned an ultra-modern KDF regional hospital in Isiolo, underscoring the Government’s commitment to improving the welfare of soldiers. The state-of-the-art Isiolo Regional Hospital, with a capacity of 105 beds, is a level IV facility that will address the healthcare needs of service personnel, their dependents and veterans in the upper Eastern region which includes Isiolo, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Meru, Nanyuki and Samburu counties. The president said the new hospital marks an important step in the healthcare reforms for the disciplined forces that are in tandem with the Government’s agenda on Universal Health Coverage (UHC) which has witnessed improvements in the services offered to the civilian population as well. “The facility before us will provide Level IV specialised services including surgical, internal medicine, obstetric/gynaecological services, paediatric services and critical care to service members and their families within this region. This will reduce the time taken and resources used to travel all the way to Nairobi as was the case previously,” the President said. He said the hospital is also part of the modernization of institutions of state and security organs that his administration has been implementing since 2013. Another Trauma and Counselling Centre at Manda in Lamu County has been opened. The Level VI Hospital off Waiyaki Way, Nairobi, is still under construction. The hospital is intended to be a centre of excellence in medical care for all security agencies, offering comprehensive care and acting as a referral hospital. The 11-storey block will have 700-beds and 15 operating theatres and will also be a centre for medical teams to conduct research on emerging medical challenges. Builders China Wu Yi is in the course of putting up the facility on four acres of land.