Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja came face to face with police investigating forgery claims against him in a saga surrounding his foreign degree in a session that lasted hours. He had earlier ignored a session with the president of the Commission for University Education to provide proof that he indeed has a degree. He said CUE did not give him an official invitation to the said session. “I read it in the media. I can’t go there without an official invitation,” he said. When he appeared before the team investigating him, he produced some of the documents needed and promised to bring others later. He insisted he has a degree from the university. “He says his degree is genuine. We are however investigating claims of forgery,” said an officer aware of the probe. Sakaja had kept the Directorate of Criminal Investigations cops at the Serious Crimes Unit for two hours. He was to arrive at 2pm but arrived two hours later. He had called the cops to ask them for more time as he was held in a meeting in Karen and the officers told him they will stay waiting until even midnight. He was aboard a sport Range Rover in the company of his running mate James Muchiri and was ushered into a grilling room that lasted until late in the evening. The team investigating said they had liaised with authorities in Uganda for more information regarding the degree. Sakaja claims to have graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Management (External) from Team University in Uganda. He was Sunday cleared by the electoral body to seek to be the next governor of Nairobi amid the controversy. Police revealed Machakos gubernatorial Wiper candidate Wavinya Ndeti and Meru UDA candidate Mithika Linturi had also been summoned for grilling over claims of forgery into their degree. Police said Linturi refused to sign his summons. They both had complaints before the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission over their degrees but were dismissed. They were expected at the DCI Monday, police said. A declaration by Sakaja in 2017 that he has a degree from the University of Nairobi is likely to come back and haunt him. This will be an addition to an ongoing probe of claims of forgery that he is facing. The Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji ordered police to investigate the claims and others. Head of Serious Crimes Kuria Obadiah told the senator to show up at the DCI at 2pm on Monday. This came a day after Sakaja presented himself at the DCI headquarters, only to be turned away by detectives. "I am investigating into an alleged offence of forgery contrary to Section 345 of the Penal Code and have reasons to believe that you Mr Sakaja has information that can assist me with investigations,” said a letter from the DCI sent to the senator. He was asked to present the application letter he sent to Team University, his admission letter and school fee payment records. He is also supposed to give a clearance letter from the Speaker of the Senate to show he was allowed to travel to Uganda for his studies or any other activities. The DPP asked the police to address allegations and complaints about aspirants’ academic credentials on social and mainstream media to be investigated. “It is prudent to expand the scope of investigations beyond the two gubernatorial aspirants to include complaints against aspirants lodged with the IEBC and relevant government agencies, including complaints circulating in the digital, print and electronic media,” Haji said. At the same time, the DPP told police to probe any government agencies that may have been involved in the fraudulent clearance of aspirants without requisite documents in what may rope in staff from the IEBC and the CUE. “In addition, there is a need to investigate the role, if any, of any government agencies, departments and commissions to determine whether they aided and/ or abetted the commission of any offences in the issuance of relevant clearances,” he said. Wavinya Ndeti will be probed for forgery after her academic credentials were questioned by two voters. Ndeti claims to have obtained a computer study from South Bank University London. Linturi too has complaints about the same issue. CUE summoned Sakaja to provide proof for his degree which he claims to have acquired from the university. The commission maintains that the academic credentials of the senator who is eying Nairobi governorship on a United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket remain revoked until he can prove their authenticity. CUE chair Prof Chacha Nyaigotti said the commission received complaints challenging the authenticity of Sakaja’s degree despite having cleared him a week ago. “The commission received complaints from members of the public and civil society casting doubts on the authenticity of the degree certificate submitted to CUE by Hon. Sakaja. The gravity of the matters raised, made the Commission to revoke its decision to recognize the degree qualification in Kenya pending further investigations in liaison with other relevant investigative agencies,” Prof Nyaigotti said. CUE has asked Sakaja to provide material evidence proving his academic qualifications among them his admission letter, student ID, transcripts, receipts of tuition fees paid to Teams University, graduation photos and a list of lecturers who taught him at the institution. “Further, the Commission has invited Hon. Sakaja to attend a meeting on Monday, 20th June 2022 at 10.00 a.m. in order to provide further information that can aid in the investigations,” the CUE boss said.