Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko has triggered anxiety in her UDA party after she said on Saturday she will only support any governor candidate seeking her endorsement. Tobiko made the remark in Masimba during a mass service for the four people shot dead by police on June 2. “Ninajua sana kwamba gavana Joseph Lenku anapenda jamii ya Wamaasai. Kura mimi bado ninaangalia mwenye ataniomba hio kura yangu. Mimi ni wa kupeana kura, lakini bado, bado…Nitampa mwenye ataniomba,” said Tobiko. Loosely translated: “I know very well that governor Joseph Lenku loves his Maasai community. I am still looking to who I will give my vote. I am giving out my vote, but not yet, not yet…I will give it to anyone who will ask for it.” When the Star sought her clarification further on Sunday, Tobiko said she did not name anyone in Masimba who she will support as the next Kajiado governor but insisted that she will support “anyone, anyone” needing her indulgence. The Kajiado East MP lost to Kajiado South MP, Katoo ole Metito in the UDA gubernatorial nominations in April, and since then, she has never been seen in the party’s campaign in Kajiado. The legislator has severally indicated on her Facebook account that she is supporting the election of DP William Ruto as the next president of Kenya. Those who attended the Masimba mass service for the four slain men had strong feelings that Tobiko could be headed to Lenku’s camp. “The way he complimented Lenku in the church revealed her inner feeling and urge to support governor Lenku. She is already there,” said Peter Topisia. Topisia claimed MP Tobiko has already sold her soul to Lenku but only time will tell where she is headed to. Our attempt to reach out to Metito to comment on Tobiko’s latest actions could not bore fruit after he failed to respond to our messages. The MP’s brother and CS for Environment Keriako Tobiko, who is supporting the former governor David Nkedianye’s candidacy have planned a mega rally on Tuesday in the Lasit area of Kajiado East. The rally will take place on Tuesday in the MP’s backyard. Kajiado East is also the home of the Kaputiei Maasai community which heavily backed Nkedianye in the 2013 and 2017 general elections.