The Kenya Medical Association has said it will push for a new policy to address work-related challenges, including stress, which affects many health workers. KMA president Dr Were Onyino said they discussed details in the new policy at the just-concluded 49th KMA annual scientific conference in Eldoret. He said after the conference they will come up with recommendations that would be discussed with the Ministry of Health and other stakeholders. Onyino said the effects of Covid-19 and poor working environment have affected the physical well-being of medics. He said more than 30 doctors died of Covid-19, which exposed many problems which doctors face. “That is why we thought it wise to have this conference this year to focus on the well-being of the doctors because when a doctor or any other healthcare worker is unwell he or she cannot effectively treat other patients,” Onyino said. He said doctors also face family-related challenges because they work for many hours and have little time for their families. “We would like to have a very good work balance that will ensure doctors perform their duties well and also take care of their families,” Onyino said. Present were Dr Charles Jakait, who is KMA Eldoret branch chairman, and Diana Marion, who is deputy secretary general among others. Jakait said several doctors suffer from mental health issues and are being managed in various parts of the country. Marion said the well-being of doctors is a key factor that has to be considered in ensuring the delivery of quality healthcare. KMA secretary general Dr Simon Kigondu said doctors, by the nature of their work, handle critical situations including carrying out surgeries and dealing with patients in critical condition. Some die in their hands, he said. “All these situations expose doctors and other medics to challenges touching on their mental health,” he said. He said medics are not properly remunerated and end up suffering serious mental problems that affect their work. He said they would push to have NHIF pay for all healthcare needs of doctors, including handling mental health. Edited by A.N