The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has cleared seven out of the 13 gubernatorial aspirants in Taita Taveta county. On Saturday, the commission cleared former senator Danson Mwazo, Francis Mwaita, Agnes Wakesho, Faustin Mghendi, Godino Mwasaru, Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime and ODM's Thomas Mwakwida. Five more aspirants will be cleared on Sunday while the incumbent Governor Granton Samboja will be cleared on Monday. Speaking shortly after being cleared at the Taita Taveta University, Mghendi, a governor hopeful, committed to conduct peaceful campaigns. Mghendi expressed satisfaction with the commission, saying his clearance was a big step towards victory. "The exercise was smooth and everything went on well. It is now time to hit the ground and meet our supporters." The aspirant, who is vying on the Mwangi Kiunjuri- led The Service Party, was accompanied by his running mate Immah Nduku. He promised to tap the potential in the agriculture sector to transform the county's economy. "The county is rich in agriculture and there is a big potential if fully explored. That will help generate revenue for the county," Mghendi said. Nduku, a geologist, said she will help residents benefit from the multi-million mining sector, adding that it had been neglected thus pushing residents to poverty. On his part, Mwadime asked IEBC and the police to investigate cases of buying of identity cards. Mwadime claimed some of his supporters had revealed to him there were people buying ID cards at his strongholds. "I have advised the complaints to report it to the police so that action can be taken. We have further asked IEBC to investigate the same," the legislator said. Mwadime, who is vying on an independent ticket, said he is determined to replace Samboja. The two-term legislator said he is banking on his past experience to streamline service delivery at the devolved unit if he is elected on August 9 polls. Mwakwida, on the other hand, said his banking background will be helpful to the county, promising to tame corruption at the county. "If all the money lost through corruption is utilised, we can implement mega projects," Mwakwida, who was accompanied by his running mate Hope Mwanyuma, said. Taita Taveta county elections manager Eisha Mohamed said they had not experienced any difficulty in clearing the aspirants. "All the candidates had the required documents. That has enabled us to move with speed," she said. Mohamed urged candidates to conduct peaceful campaigns and desist from contravening election laws.  (edited by Amol Awuor)