A declaration by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja in 2017 that he has a degree from the University of Nairobi is likely to come back to haunt him. This will be an addition to an ongoing probe of claims of forgery that he is facing. Sakaja had declared he has a degree, which officials at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission are likely to raise in the course of the ongoing probe. The statement was made on his self-declaration forms filed with the EACC. “It will be raised. This is what may be dangerous for now,” an official aware of the plans said. The DCI has summoned him on June 20 over forgery claims. This is the same day he is expected to provide proof to the Commission for University Education (CUE) that he indeed has a degree. Sakaja claims to have graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Management (External) from Team University in Uganda. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has ordered police to investigate the claims and others. Head of Serious Crimes Kuria Obadiah told the senator to show up at the DCI at 2pm on Monday. This came a day after Sakaja presented himself at DCI headquarters, only to be turned away by detectives. “I'm investigating into an alleged offence of forgery contrary to Section 345 of the Penal Code and have reasons to believe that you, Sakaja has information that can assist me with investigations,” a letter from the DCI sent to the senator said. He was asked to present the application letter he sent to Team University, admission letter and school fee payment records. He is also expected to provide a clearance letter from the Speaker of the Senate to show he was allowed to travel to Uganda for his studies or any other activities. The DPP asked police to address allegations and complaints about aspirants’ academic credentials on social and mainstream media to be investigated. Machakos governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti will also be probed after her academic credentials were questioned by two voters. “It is prudent to expand the scope of investigations beyond the two gubernatorial aspirants to include complaints against aspirants lodged with the IEBC and relevant government agencies, including complaints circulating in digital, print and electronic media,” Haji said. The DPP told police to probe any government agencies that may have been involved in fraudulent clearance of aspirants without requisite documents in what may rope in staff from the IEBC and CUE. “In addition, there is a need to investigate the role, if any, of any government agencies, departments and commissions to determine whether they aided and/or abetted the commission of any offences in the issuance of relevant clearances,” he said. CUE summoned Sakaja to provide proof for his degree, which he claims to have acquired from the university. The commission maintains that the academic credentials of the senator, who is eyeing the Nairobi governorship on the UDA ticket, remain revoked until he can prove their authenticity. CUE chairperson Prof Chacha Nyaigotti said the commission received complaints challenging the authenticity of Sakaja’s degree despite having cleared him a week ago. “The commission received complaints from members of the public and civil society casting doubts on the authenticity of the degree certificate submitted to CUE by Sakaja. The gravity of the matter raised made the commission to revoke its decision to recognise the degree qualification in Kenya, pending further investigations in liaison with other relevant investigative agencies,” Nyaigotti said. CUE has asked Sakaja to provide material evidence proving his academic qualifications, among them an admission letter, student ID, transcripts, receipts of tuition fees paid to Teams University, graduation photos and a list of lecturers who taught him at the institution. “Further, the commission has invited Sakaja to attend a meeting on Monday, June 20, 2022, at 10am to provide further information that can aid in the investigations,” the CUE boss said. Sakaja has dragged President Uhuru Kenyatta's name into the saga, blaming him for his woes. The Star has established that earlier this week members perceived to be  'deep state' called Sakaja asking him to drop his governor's bid and would be given a Cabinet secretary position. "The deep state men called Sakaja and asked him to drop his bid, promising a CS slot, but Sakaja turned it down," a source who sought anonymity said. Sakaja said Uhuru was a political father until last week when he blamed the head of state for his degree saga. “For the first time today, I have addressed my former party leader who is the president and a man I respect,"  Sakaja said. He labelled the head of state a traitor, accusing him of fuelling attempts to lock him out of the Nairobi governor's race. Despite all the drama over his degree, Sakaja has insisted that no form of intimidation will change the will of the people of Nairobi to have new leadership. “Threats of arrest and persecution by the state will not intimidate us or change the will of the people of Nairobi. Our resolve remains firm,” he said. Edited by A.N