Police have arrested 13 suspects linked to the killings of a supermarket employee in Kisumu. County police Commander Alphonce Kimanthi confirmed the arrests, saying they have intensified patrol operations across the county. “We have made changes in the security in Nyamasaria, the scene of the incident and we have a new Officer Commanding Station (OCS). The suspects are in custody,” Kimathi said. He said they also impounded a motor vehicle and motorcycle the criminals are believed to be using to terrorise residents. “We have heightened up investigations into the incident and the suspects will be taken to court once investigations are concluded. The county police boss said they are working closely with community policing to address the insecurity in the county. He, however, assured residents that they have robust security measures in place to protect them and their property. Kimanthi further said they are prepared to provide maximum security during the August 9 general elections. “Nobody is above the law. Laws must be obeyed irrespective of your status in society. We will deal firmly with those causing violence including politicians who will be breaking election laws during the election period,” he said. Market Milimani MCA Seth Ochieng had raised concern over the increased insecurity in the city and called for swift action from the security agency. He cited the recent killing of one of the supermarket's staff on his way home from work. “Some criminals are walking in groups and terrorising residents. They recently killed an employee of a local supermarket,” Ochieng said. The MCA urged police to ensure maximum protection for the residents as well as their property in Kisumu. Kisumu Central deputy county commissioner Hussein Alaso Hussein, who presided over the Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu,  directed police to beef up security in the city and warned criminals that they will face full force of the law. “It is just a matter of time and we will all catch up with those involved in criminal activities,” he said. With the digital era and dedicated security officers, Hussein assured that criminals will be apprehended. The commissioner noted that the security agency was fully prepared to ensure peaceful elections. He, however, cautioned politicians and supporters to shun violence and embrace unity during campaigns and after elections.