As the country gears towards general elections, dress code has become something critical. Political formations now limit what colours one can safely dress in, lest you are associated with any of the parties. The two main alliances, Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance (Azimio) and Kenya Kwanza Alliance (KK), have a blend of colours associated with them. For Azimio, it is royal blue and orange, while yellow and green are the main colours for the KK team. While attending events organised by either alliance, many supporters become creative with the colours. For women, the designs range from dresses, T-shirts, hair, beret caps, lessos and blouses. Men are a bit limited, so they mostly dress in long shirts, suits or caps. Here are a few tips to help you escape being engulfed in political woes because of your dress code. STAY NEUTRAL Neutral colours, including white and black, will not be aligned with any political formation. Other neutral colours are grey, beige, taupe, cream, brown and sky blue. This is because none of the alliances has used the combination as their alliance theme. Also, if you are attending a political event but your profession does not allow you to declare a stand, then you should remain neutral. AVOID BLENDING THEMES For instance, if you innocently wear a yellow shirt and black trouser, everyone will think you are in the KK team. This is similar with blending royal blue and orange, whether intentionally or not. To avoid these, you can only wear one bit of the theme colours. We can’t avoid buying blue clothes because of Azimio, but if you blend blue and orange, then you’ll definitely be mistaken. CODE FOR POLITICIANS Even the politicians themselves can now be questioned on their dress code. They are in a tighter spot to avoid wearing colours aligned with the opponents’ team. These tense political times have now hindered the Azimio team from wearing their yellow outfits. Same to KK team, who now have to put aside all their blue and orange outfits until after the elections. Any attempt to wear the other alliance's theme colour will have people insinuating a plan to ‘dump the party’. When attending an Azimio function, even a fan attending the event in a yellow, black or green outfit will look out of place.