ODM leader Raila Odinga and his Wiper Party counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka are expected to address a joint rally at Mkuru Kwa Njenga in Nairobi, on Thursday, the Star has learnt. A source privy to the developments told this writer that the meeting will mark Kalonzo's return to the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance, two weeks after he announced his exit. "The information I am privy to is Kalonzo and Raila will address the nation together on Thursday," a source aware of the plan, and who sought anonymity, said on Wednesday. Minutes after the source informed the Star of Kalonzo-Raila's looming reunion, Azimio Coalition secretary General Junet Mohamed ostensibly confirmed the source's assertion, though he did not mention whether Kalonzo will be present. "Azimio la Umoja one Kenya coalition party will address the nation tomorrow at 2 pm from Mukuru kwa Njenga," Junet tweeted. The development come hours after Kalonzo announced that he would make a major political announcement in two days' time. Speaking at the burial of former diplomat Joseph Katithi in Kyawango village in Mwala, Machakos county, Kalonzo yet again gave a hint that he could be on his way back to Azimio La Umoja  One Kenya Alliance. Kalonzo's move to pass messages of condolences from ODM Chief and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua to the bereaved family exposed his apparent plan to rejoin the Azimio coalition. While revealing his looming major announcement, the Wiper leader urged the Kamba community to bear with him and support his political move stating that it was in their best interest. "I will give a political statement within two days’ time. That’s why I am requesting the Kamba community to support my political move,” Kalonzo said. He asked the region's leaders not to ridicule him once he makes the announcement since he has the blessings of the Wiper party’s delegates. Wiper delegates last week urged Kalonzo to rejoin Azimio and renegotiate on behalf of the community what is at stake for them as a region. “I was given authority by Wiper delegates to contest for the Presidency. It isn’t only Wiper and Kamba community, but we need all communities for Kenya to move on as a nation,” Kalonzo said.