Chama Cha Uzalendo leader Nzioka Waita has asked Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to keep off Machakos politics. In a tweet on Sunday, Waita said Kalonzo is not a registered voter in the county and his focus should only be on campaigning for Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga. According to the former State House Chief of staff, the rest should be left to the people of Machakos to decide. “Kwa heshima haujachukua kura yako hapa Machakos. Kwa hivyo, omba kura za Baba, mengine utatuachia tutajipanga. Watu wa Machakos sio wajinga. Hiyo dawa unajaribu kutupatia haimezeki," he said. This loosely translates to, "With due respect, you aren’t a registered voter in Machakos. Seek votes for Raila and leave the rest to us. The people of Machakos aren’t stupid. That pill you are trying to give us can't be swallowed.” Waita's remarks came after Kalonzo endorsed Wiper party's Wavinya Ndeti for the Machakos governorship during an Azimio la Umoja campaign in the county. Wavinya and Waita supporters on Sunday clashed as the Azimio team campaigned in the county and one time former Prime Minister Raila Odinga was forced to cut short his speech and leave the dais. Both Ndeti and Waita never addressed the public in Athi River. There are claims that a sitting member of Parliament physically attempted to block Waita and a Mavoko parliamentary candidate from getting near Raila at the podium sparking the fight. "We are ready to play with the Tanga tanga team. I will play number nine, I have my team here," these were Raila's last words before he cut his speech short. Bodyguards pounced on some of those who were on the dais as Raila made his speech. When the situation became unbearable, Raila stopped his speech and left. "The MP was physically preventing Waita and an MP candidate from moving closer to Raila. They forced themselves closer and then tension ensued leading to the fights," a source said. Kalonzo had earlier unsuccessfully told Waita to shelve his governor bid in Wavinya's favour. "I am happy that Wiper's team is strong. Those others are our youths, we will talk with them," Kalonzo said in Masinga. "Nzioka is my friend, I will talk to him. For now, Wavinya is okay, " he added. Kalonzo was booed as Waita protested his push for Ndeti's candidature. There had been heightened tension all through the rallies among Waita and Ndeti supporters. The former State House Chief of staff asked Raila not to bow to Kalonzo's pressure in forcing him to endorse Ndeti.