Butere Girls became the latest team to join the Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) women's Division One. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) competitions secretary, Joseph Amoko, confirmed the development saying the school girls are already drawn into the fixtures. Butere qualified from the KBF inter-provincial playoffs in Eldoret last November but couldn't immediately confirm their availability. "They have now made it clear that they will take part in the league and I have already put them in the fixtures starting this weekend," Amoko said. Their first assignment will see them host neighbours and long-time premier league side, Western Delight in their backyard. Butere now join Swift from Bungoma who also made their debut last weekend, losing 54-35 to another new side TH3 Swish of Nakuru. Butere, Swift and Western Delight now bring to three the total number of teams from Western into the national fold. Meanwhile, national women champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) coach Anthony Ojukwu has hailed the exploits of his new signings' opener against Storms. Guard Jemimah Knight and forward Linda Alando proved they have fitted in well into the team in the 95-43 Premier League win. Knight, poached from Storms and Alando who came in from Equity Bank, were instrumental in the match played at Makande Welfare hall. The porters, who sailed away to a 51-15 advantage at the break, had 19 points from the international Knight and 13 from Alando. "The effects of our pre-season in Kigali and Kampala is coming up well.  It was evident during the game and I am happy that we gave a good account of ourselves," noted Ojukwu. "The new players have come in very well and I can see they will form an understanding and build a good team chemistry." He added: "Though the season is still early, there are indicators of another good season ahead." KPA's encounter against Eagle Wings wasn't played over the weekend as the Nairobi side did not show up for the fixture. At the Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium, Africa Nazarene University (ANU) blanked Zetech University 61-48 in a men's top-flight league. The Wolfpacks who lost to Titans in the Division One play-off finals raced away to a 26-18 halftime margin and never looked back. "Everything worked out well for us. The boys played well on defence and offence. We hope to continue that way in our coming games," said coach Mike Oluoch.