The National government is set to roll out additional measures to tame over speeding along the Nairobi Expressway. This follows a road accident involving multiple cars and injured people at the Mlolongo toll station last night. Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna on Sunday announced that plans were already on course to implement new enforcement measures to ensure adherence to the 80km/h speed limit on the expressway. He pointed out that despite the expressway having a speed limit of 80kph which is clearly displayed at intervals, some ‘rogue’ drivers choose to ignore the guidelines. “The crashes are attributed largely to drivers ignoring speed limits. Nairobi Expressway for instance has a speed limit of 80kph and below which is clearly displayed,” Oguna said. In addition, he urged motorists to adhere to the recommended speed limits to avoid chances of crashes like the one that happened at the Mlolongo Toll Station on Saturday night. Oguna also cautioned motorists to approach the affected toll station with care as it has been partially closed to facilitate repairs. The Government spokesman made the statement after the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) linked the crash to over speeding. KeNHA pointed out that the motorist who crashed on the toll station and other adjacent cars approached the exit in complete disregard of the set speed limit. “The Nairobi Expressway is committed to providing a safe and reliable toll road service and would wish to assure the public that they are putting measures in place to avert such unfortunate incidents from occurring. Motorists are advised to avoid over speeding (sic) and be cautious while on the road,” the highways authority warned. On May 7, the first road accident on the newly constructed expressway was reported. It involved a car which hit the fence demarcating the new road and Mombasa Road and landed on the highway. Before opening the road for public trial, authorities had released reports of stiff penalties for motorists who damaged property along the expressway.