A showdown looms in Garissa when Azimio flagbearer Raila Odinga visits on Monday and two governor candidates in Aximio flex their muscles. The two leading candidates are incumbent Ali Korane of Jubilee and former Governor Nathif Jama of ODM positioning themselves to welcome Raila and show their popularity. During his last visit in October last year at the Azimio la Umoja forum, supporters of Korana and Jama clashed. The situation was so bad that Jama was almost denied entrance to Korane's residence where Raila was meeting leaders from Northeastern. Jama said that based on their discussions with the organising committee, there will be no rally in Garissa town. Instead, Raila will visit three subcounty headquarter towns, first Masalani, then Bura, then Dadaab. A confrontation was also witnessed during a recent bisit by Raila's running mate, Martha Karua. Complicating matters is the fact Korane is the coalition’s point man in the region, while Jama is the ODM candidate for the seat. Raila heads ODM. Raila has already started his tour of Northern Kenya, landing in Garissa on Monday. Clashes broke out on Friday in Moyale town in Marsabit when supporters of Governor Mohamed Muhamud (UDM) and Treasury CS Ukur Yatani (UPIA) clashed. The same tumult broke out on Sunday in Mandera when supporters of Governor Ali Roba (UDM) clashed with those of Hassan Noor (ODM). On Friday Jama lifted the lid on the existing tension, publicly stating Raila's itinerary, essentially telling  both sides where to position their forces. “Hence, I take this opportunity to call on all county Azimio leaders, members, associates, supporters and well-wishers to come out in large numbers to make Baba's visit to our county a big success,” Jama said. A source close to Governor Korane said, however, the official communication of Raila's programme and the stops he will be officially announced on Sunday. “I am not allowed to speak because I don’t have the authority to do that, but what I know for a fact is that the programme will be released on Sunday. "Garissa town is one place he will a stop to address the people," the source said. The pastoralist counties — Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, Isiolo, Marsabit and Samburu — had been perceived to be neutral. Now they have become battlegrounds as Raila and DP William Ruto seek to get a portion of nearly one million votes. Last week, Ruto crisscrossed the region as he intensified his campaigning. Among pressing issues that have featured prominently in the presidential candidates' manifestos increasing water supply, livestock, lack of infrastructure and insecurity. (Edited by V. Graham)