Kenya Simbas head coach Paul Odera has made nine changes to the side that will face Eastern Province Elephants in the Currie Cup on Saturday at the RFUEA ground. This will be Simba's final match of the campaign ahead of their World Cup qualifier against Uganda in France on July 2. Odera will start Patrick Ouko, Brian Waraba and Ephraim Oduor in the front row with the Romanian-based lock Malcolm Sandor partnering Thomas Okeyo in the second row George Nyambua skippers the side and will start at blindside flank alongside Martin Owilah and Bethwell Amani in the back row. In the backs, Samuel Asati and Dominic Coulson retain their partnership in the half-backs with John Okoth and Vincent Onyala in the midfield. Kenya Sevens talisman Collins Injera, Jacob Ojee and Darwin Mukidza complete the back three. Odera said he expects a competitive match against the Elephants, who are second on the log. However, he wants his charges to keep up the momentum after beating the Leopards 51-35 last week. "It has been a fantastic week and with every win, there’s always some confidence in the team and after last week’s performance, the mood in the camp has been very good, as expected. It has been quite a challenge to point out to the boys that there is still a lot to do," said Odera. "We are reminding the players that good teams produce good performances week in, week out. They need to prove to themselves, the coaching staff and Kenyans that they can put in a good performance for the second consecutive week." Odera said the team have worked on one-on-one tackling and kickoff reception areas he said were a letdown in last week's win. The Elephants will be targeting a win to consolidate second place on the log and a home semifinal next week in South Africa. Elephants' assistant coach Zane Bosch said: “It is a very important match for us as we are playing in the semifinal next Friday. We are using this match as a preparation towards that fixture. The aim is to come, do the best we can and build a good platform going forward.”