From the remote Kikaech village in Baringo Central, Joyce Chemjor, 53, a teacher from Baringo, started making and selling decoration beadwork to earn extra money. She started her beadwork during Covid-19 in 2020. Currently, she displays them at a shop in Kabarnet town bus stage. “I was idling at home during the Covid-19 period. However, one day I saw a beaded keyholder and suddenly developed an interest to make a similar one,” Chejor said on Wednesday. She said without hesitating she visited a shop in Marigat town selling beadwork, then made some inquiries. “I settled on buying some few beads of different colours and a sewing hook then started making them. Everything has been a learning experience,” the teacher said. She attributes her quick learning to Art and Crafts subjects she studied in primary school. Today, apart from her monthly salary, she earns extra coins. Her decorated items are women's handbags, serviette holders, flower vessels, bangles, necklaces, headgears, fruit baskets, and vehicle steering cases, key holders, men's and women's belts. “Satisfied clients come back individually or in groups to buy the items during wedding ceremonies, homes, church activities, vehicles and offices,” Chemjor said. “I sacrifice my time every evening after work, weekends and holidays to do my beadwork, which has so far attracted several customers.” Chemjor said it takes creativity, time, patience, energy, and money to venture into the business. She said she buys new ladies' bags, improves them with decoration and sells between Sh650 and Sh1800 depending on the sizes.  She buys at around Sh250 and Sh400 per bag. “I just focus on making small profits because I take care of my customers. Since 2020 have not lacked some little cash from my new talent to pay for my children's school fees, I thank God,” she said. Chemjor decried the marketing challenge saying not so many people have learned about her artwork. “With some little marketing I am sure I'll go far,” she said. The teacher said no single shop sells the quality beads in Kabarnet town and she has to travel to Nairobi, Nakuru and Eldoret, to buy at fair prices. In future, she hopes to produce many of the items and sell them as a wholesaler both locally and internationally and establish a learning centre to train people especially youth, at a small fee.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris