Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua on Wednesday appealed for a high voter turnout in Raila Odinga’s Nyanza backyard to guarantee a decisive win on August 9. Karua, who was in Homa Bay, urged residents to come out in large numbers and cast their votes saying that is the only way to secure victory for the coalition. The Narc Kenya boss spoke on a day Raila’s wife Ida Odinga pitched camp in Kwisero, Kakamega, to rally the region behind the Azimio candidate. Ida was the chief guest during the library launch at Mulwanda Primary School. Karua said every leader in the coalition must make it their responsibility to get everyone out to vote saying it will be counterproductive to assume Raila will win without his strongholds coming out to vote. “Raila allowed me and the women of Kenya the opportunity to serve in the presidency but this awaits your authorisation. We are not there yet; we must get every vote out,” Karua said. “We just don’t want a win but a decisive win that has never been seen in this country before. Are you going to let Baba down at this eleventh hour?” Karua said the ODM leader should be voted in with enough MPs to push his legislative agenda in the bicameral Parliament. She warned against voting for Raila with few MPs saying it will make him a lame duck president who will struggle to realise his promises to Kenyans. Voting Raila allies, Karua said, will guarantee a stable government and push through necessary legislations to anchor their ambitious manifesto. “If you elect Raila and fail to give him his MPs then you have done nothing and by that, I mean senators, woman representatives, Members of the National Assembly and MCAs,” Karua said. She spoke during the Homa Bay women convention attended by Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti, Homa Bay governor candidate Gladys Wanga, Azimio Nyanza region coordinator John Mbadi and Senator Moses Kajwang’. Already there is a special team to rally the Nyanza region towards a 100 per cent voter turnout and change the perception of a perennial lower turnout in Raila's regions. The team co-chaired by Mbadi and Kisii Governor James Ongwae has been tasked with the responsibility of realising the highest turnout possible in the region to propel Raila beyond the 50 per cent plus victory mark. The leaders also hit at Deputy President William Ruto questioning his development record for the years he has been in government. “There is no Kenyan who can vote for the Ruto-Rigathi ticket leaving Raila and Karua, that would be madness of highest order,” Mbadi said. “There is no contest between Azimio and Kenya Kwanza, Kenyans know who can deliver on their promises,” Wanga said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris