Tusker head coach Robert Matano was euphoric after firing his side to a second consecutive Kenyan Premier League title following an emphatic 2-0 win over Posta Rangers in an action-packed thriller at Ruaraka Complex, Nairobi on Sunday. It was a surreal ending for a side whose campaign took off on a torrid note following a string of unconvincing performances in the initial phases of the season. “I'm certainly happy. Winning a Premier League title for the fourth time is not a joke. I've made history and Tusker have also opened another chapter in history. Remember this is our 13th title,” said the visibly elated gaffer. Matano took home his fourth top-flight title having previously guided Tusker to similar feats in 2012 and 2021. He was also in charge when Sofapaka bagged their only KPL title in 2009. “I can't find enough words to thank our sponsors, the management, my colleagues on the technical bench and all the players for a consecutive title. Teamwork pays,” Matano said. “It has been a tough season. Our intense rivalry with Kakamega Homeboyz took the title contention to the wire and we thank them for being worthy opponents.” The brewers cruised to the winner's podium on the back of a healthier goal difference over Kakamega Homeboyz. Both teams had 63 points at the conclusion of the topflight league on Sunday. However, Homeboyz found their potential limited after Kariobangi Sharks failed to turn up for their final fixture at Mumias Sports Complex. The interesting turn of events on the final day of the campaign handed the coach Robert Matano-tutored side their 13th Kenyan Premier League title. Shaphan Oyugi fired the brewers ahead in the 26th minute on the second bite of the cherry after Tanzanian Ibrahim Joshua's initial effort bumped off the woodwork following Shami Mwinyi's enticing cross from the right channel. Jackson Macharia pounced on a perfect opportunity to double the advantage in the 79th minute after being teed up by Stewart Omondi. The brewers suffered a scare in the final six minutes of play and had to conclude the battle with ten men after Kevin Monyi was sent off by referee Peter Waweru following a second bookable offence. In other fixtures, coastal side Bandari surrendered third spot to record champions Gor Mahia after crashing 1-0 to Kenya Police at Nyayo Stadium. Ulinzi Stars edged Sofapaka 1-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. AFC Leopards wrapped up the season on a low following a 3-1 loss to Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium. Wazito earned a walkover after relegated Vihiga Bullets gave their match a wide berth.