Former national champions  beat Zetech University Titans 71-51 in a Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) tie at Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium. Rodney Sande hit the game's opening basket and Titans went on to pose all sorts of problems for the opponent despite trailing 20-18 in the first stanza. They kept hammering at the soldiers and were rewarded with a strong 12-11 cushion as the two teams went into break with Ulinzi leading 31-30. Ulinzi hanged on 50-40 as the buzzer sounded to end the third quarter and managed a 21-11 last quarter edge. Eric Mutoro and Joseph Owino each hit 14 points. "We are still rough on the edge. We hope to refine as time goes by," said Ulinzi's head coach Ben Mufutu. "In the first two quarters, we didn't settle down and we were in a hurry unlike in the third and fourth, where we did well. We will correct our mistakes as we move on," Titans' coach Job Munene opined. " We had a good start but our execution after the break was poor. It's still early in the season and we lack maturity. All the same, I am happy with our start.." In another top tie encounter, Strathmore University Blades had to charge from behind to cut a determined Umoja side 73-65. The students trailed 18-8 in the first quarter but did well to to keep their opponents at bay with a 18-18 tie in the second quarter. Blades were on top of the proceedings after the break, roaring to a 28-8 cushion to carry the day despite a 21-19 Umoja surge in the last stanza. Bramwel Chevai led the winners with 20 points as Garang Ding collected 15. Mike Munene scored Umoja's 16 and William Malole hit 15. "We really struggled in this game, especially in the opening half. But I must applaud my boys for coming up strong after the break," Blades coach Tony Ochieng said ."I am happy with the overall performance but we will have to work extra hard in our next game tomorrow. "In Division One, Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) University dimmed Moi Air Base 52-48 while National Bank of Kenya hit Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology 59-42 in their debut. Little Prince did well to manage a 48-38 victory against Nairobi Institute of Business Studies (NIBS)while Eldoret-based Shoot 4 Life failed to show up against Strathmore University who were awarded a walkover