The controversy surrounding the credibility of Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja's university academic credentials has taken a new twist. The University of Nairobi has listed him among its alumni, days after it emerged that the administration denied that he graduated from the institution. Sakaja is listed on the alumni page as having graduated with a degree in Actuarial Science, right above the late former vice president Prof George Saitoti. "He joined the University of Nairobi, where he graduated with a degree in Actuarial Science. At UON, Sakaja set up a financial consultancy firm, Arthur Johnson Consultants, during his fourth year on campus," reads the description on Sakaja. This is, however, in contrast with communication from the university on May 31, 2022. The letter from the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Julius Ogeng'o to the Director of Criminal Investigations confirmed that Sakaja was and is still a student of UoN. "He undertook the programme "Bachelor of Science in Actuarial Science" at the university for four years from  2003/2004 to 2007/2008," Ogeng'o said in the letter. The deputy VC, however, revealed that the Senator never graduated from the university as there is no record in the graduation booklet confirming that. "Records available indicate that he did not complete his studies," Ogeng'o told the DCI. The credibility of Sakaja's university academic qualification was brought to question two days after he was cleared by the IEBC to vie for the Nairobi governor seat on June 7, 2022. Sakaja is seeking the seat on a United Democratic Party ticket, UDA. He was cleared on the strength of a degree certificate from the Team University in Uganda. Four complainants, however, petitioned IEBC to revoke the clearance on grounds that Sakaja is unqualified to contest at the August polls for the seat. They claim he never studied nor graduated from the Ugandan university, something Sakaja has dismissed as false. The senator insists he graduated from the University on October 21, 2016, with a degree in Bachelor of Science in Management. One of the complainants, Dennis Wahome, however, claimed in his affidavit that the university dropped the course in 2015, a year before Sakaja's alleged graduation. IEBC's Dispute Resolution Committee chaired by Wafula Chebukati commenced hearings on the matter at the Milimani Law courts on Tuesday. Sakaja will know his fate on Wednesday when the committee pronounces its verdict.