A family in Kabatheni, Kaloleni constituency has donated eight acres of land for the construction of a secondary school. The family from the Amwangari clan said they willingly donated the land to reduce the walking distance their children, especially girls, walk to school. Jumaa Khonde, who spoke on behalf of the family said many girls have been impregnated by sex pests, who take advantage of the distance to school. “Most girls are defiled on their way to school. Some boys lure them by offering them transport on their motorbikes and later seduce them," Khonde said. "This school will make sure they cover a short distance to school without the temptation from boda boda riders." On Thursday, Kaloleni MP Paul Katana led a groundbreaking ceremony of the school which was named after him. The Kaloleni NG-CDF has allocated Sh32.5 million for the construction of the Paul Katana Secondary School. During the groundbreaking, one of the elders in the family Jondi Khonde, shed tears and said he had been praying not to die before he sees the school constructed. “I did not attend any school and I have suffered due to illiteracy. My dream has always been to see my children and grandchildren attend school," Khonde said. "This land would have fetched a lot of money for the family but we have decided to give it for free to be an inheritance for every learner that will pass through this school." According to the MP, the land would have fetched more than Sh6 million if the family had sold it. The area has three primary schools with the nearest secondary school being 13 kilometres away. The family also donated four more acres for the construction of a health facility. Katana said the school will be complete by November and will start admitting students in January. The project is a two-storey building that will include an administration block, staff room, twin laboratory and four classrooms. Katana said the project will start immediately and road to the school will also be constructed. “I will also make sure the school is connected with electricity and the family members get a representative in the board of management for the school,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)