Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has questioned close to Sh1 billion expenditure in Busia county. In what could put Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s administration on the spot days to the end of its tenure, Gathungu exposed several unexplained expenditures and huge pending bills that could haunt the next administration. Some of the expenditures, the country’s top auditor said, are wasteful with the county executive spending cash against the law or without requisite legislation. The revelations are contained in the financial audit report for Busia county executive for the 2020-21 financial year by the auditor general. Gathungu said that Busia executive paid Sh15.56 million incurred by Lake Victoria North Water and Western Water Service Company. Terming the expenditure futile, the auditor said the county settled the bills incurred by other entities and for which budget had not been provided in the annual budget. “Consequently, the propriety of the expenditures of Sh15.56 million relating to utilities, supplies and services for the year ended June 30, 2021, could not be ascertained,” the report said. Further, the report said that Busia taxpayers paid for medical cover for retired county officials contrary to the law. During the year under review, the county spent Sh207.94 million on staff medical cover. However, the cover policy stipulated that county staff can be covered up to the age of 66 years. “This is contrary to section D21 of the Human Resource Policies and Procedures Manual for the Public Service, 2016 which stipulates that all officers shall retire from the service on attaining the mandatory retirement age of 60 years and 65 years for persons with disabilities,”the report said. The auditor also revealed how the county spent Sh22.48 million on the insurance of motor vehicles but failed to avail insurance policies to authenticate the expenditures. Gathungu cast doubts on the expenditure of Sh33.84 million reportedly spent on the purchase of office equipment and general supplies. The county officials did not provide payment vouchers and related supporting documents to affirm the expenditures. The auditor further expressed doubts on the expenditure of Sh27.99 million by the county on an electronic system to streamline revenue management. The system, whose contract was awarded on November 17, 2015, for a period of three years, was to provide visibility to the management across all revenue streams as well as provide real-time information to the county and citizens at large. However, since the expiry of the contract on November 17, 2018, the contract has not been renewed thus casting doubt on the prudent management of revenue by the county. “Consequently, the management did not obtain value for money from the Sh27.99 million investment in the project,” the report said. The county has also been indicted for spending Sh72 million on emergency relief and refugee assistance without establishing an Emergency Fund as provided for in law. The audit said that Governor Ojaamong’s administration will likely pass over the next administration pending bills amounting to Sh740.65 million. “Failure to settle the bills in the year to which they relate distorts the financial statements for that year and adversely affects the budgetary provisions of the subsequent financial year,” it said. And as the county accumulates the bills, Gathungu reports that the county missed its own source revenue collection target by a whopping Sh796.99 million. This adversely affected the execution of the budget with several programmes and projects stalling for lack of funds. “Consequently, there is a need for the county government of Busia management to come up with strategies for formulating realistic budgets,” Gathungu said in the report. The county executive has also bloated its workforce, blowing up to 39 percent of its revenue in salaries and wages every year. During the year under review, the county spent Sh2.74 billion out of Sh7.09 billion on the compensation of its employees. “This is contrary to regulation...of the Public Finance Management (County Government) Regulations, 2015 which states that total expenditures on the wage bill for county governments should not exceed 35 per cent of the...total revenue,” the report said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)