Machakos health workers have downed their tools, disrupting services in all public health facilities. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Doctors Union Lower Eastern region chairman Dr Charles Okumu said more than 400 health workers in Machakos have not been promoted in 15 years. He said they have exploited all avenues to have the medical practitioners promoted through the Machakos County Public Service Board. Okumu addressed the press at the Machakos Level 5 Hospital during the demonstrations on Monday. "We have decided to paralyse services in Machakos hospitals. As you can see, our members are disgruntled. They have been manhandled by the county government. "With us today we have all the unions represented: KMPDU, KNUN (nurses), KUCCO (clinical officers)," he said. The official said the workers have for the longest time been diligently serving the county in various capacities without promotions. "As we all know, the public service provides a system to have their workers promoted. This is what we have always used to engage the county government," he said. Okumu said they have engaged all the officers including the governor, his deputy and all they have received are empty promises. "We will be conducting these protests everyday, our promotion letters are lying on shelfs at Machakos County Public Service Board offices," he said. Okumu said doctors feel demotivated. "When doctors feel demotivated patients will not receive services as they should. You don't wish to be treated by a demotivated doctor, nurse or clinical officer because of a promotion that will probably take Sh2,000 or Sh5,000," he said. The official said the county public service board and county assembly has however been approving budgets for promotions. "The question is why should they approve funds for promotions, when they don't happen," he said. Okumu said the board says promotions will only take place in several months, meaning in the next financial year. "Patients need to be seen, patient care has been stalled," he said. The official said it is unfortunate that the Machakos health sector is in such a pathetic state despite the government launching the Universal Health Care programme in the county. He said lack of employees and supplies in hospitals has affected service delivery across the county. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)