Kenya Simbas will undertake a one-week training camp before their departure to the Rugby World Cup qualifiers slated for next month in France. Fresh from earning hard-fought victories over the Leopards (51-35) and the Elephants (41-24) in the Currie Cup, the Simbas will now polish up the weak areas ahead of the blockbuster showdown against Uganda in Marseilles on July 2. Speaking on Tuesday, head coach Paul Odera said the consistency in the lineout and kickoff reception will be among the areas to address during the week-long camp. “During our match against the Elephants, we conceded a handling error from the opening kickoff and we were punished. At this level, mistakes are punished ruthlessly and so we need to get better in that regard,” noted Odera. The tactician saw an improvement in the lineout but wants 100 percent performance by the time his charges face Uganda in three weeks' time. “Our lineout quality was much better on Saturday. We lost a couple of our own throws and that is why the training camp will come in handy,” added Odera. Former Kenya Under-20 and Strathmore Leos tactician termed the match against Uganda as a derby and said his charges can't afford to underestimate them. “We are treating the game as a final because If we lose we are out. It's a derby in football terms. It is like Liverpool playing Everton or Real facing Barca. It's going to be brutal and physical and the boys will have to rise to the occasion,"  said Odera The former international hailed the boys' mental strength and resilience in the two matches against the South African teams in Currie Cup. “Mental strength will serve us ahead of the qualifiers. The team showed character in coming back from 17 points down against the Elephants to win the match," he noted. The final 28-man squad will be named next week. Should Kenya beat Uganda in the quarterfinal, they will await the winners between Senegal and  Algeria in the semifinal. The other half of the draw will see Namibia take on Burkina Faso while Zimbabwe will face Ivory Coast. The winner of the Africa qualifier will be slotted into Pool A of the Rugby World Cup in France next year where they face three-time champions New Zealand, hosts France, Italy and Uruguay.