AFC Leopards chairman, Dan Shikanda, headlines the list of six candidates cleared to vie for office in the forthcoming club elections slated for Sunday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The six got the nod from the Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD) — the organization tasked with overseeing the polls — during an exercise conducted on Tuesday. Shikanda will face former club CEO Ronald Namai as he seeks to retain the seat he secured in 2019. Former chairman of branch heads, Gilbert Andugu, is limbering up for a vicious battle against Robert Situma and Tony Omusina, who are all eyeing the secretary-general's position. Two incumbents have dropped out of the race. They include current treasurer Maurice Chichi who did not seek clearance, leaving Oliver Napali Imbenzi the only candidate for the position. Current secretary-general Oliver Shikuku will also not seek re-election. In an earlier interview with the Star, Shikanda said he needs more time to complete some of the ambitious projects he had envisioned for the club upon assuming office in 2019. “The club election is on and shall be held on June 26 and yes, I will defend my seat because we have a lot of things we intend to achieve,” Shikanda said. Leopards have nothing tangible to display since its inception in 1964 and that's why we must burn the midnight oil to develop the club," Shikanda said. The ex-Kenyan international said the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic scuttled some of the plans they had put in place for the club. “The pandemic spread across two good years, leaving us with only one year to achieve our objectives,” Shikanda said. The AFC honcho outlined some of their dreams for the 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions, including securing a permanent training ground. “We want to gift our loyal fans with a present they will forever be proud of and that's a training ground which our players really deserve.” "It's a big concern that after 56 years of existence, we are yet to secure a training ground,” Shikanda lamented. Shikanda also said he would still fulfill his earlier pledge of rewarding each player with a house if they happen to clinch the league. Leopards had earlier been allocated a 20-acre parcel of land by former president Daniel Arap Moi in Kasarani whose title deed they are yet to acquire. In the last elections held at Moi Stadium Kasarani on June 23, 2019, Shikanda garnered 457 votes to beat Bernard Musundi who managed 165. Namai Ronald came third with 72. Oliver Shikuku was at the same time elected to serve as the club's secretary-general after garnering 570 against Robert Situma's 124. Maurice Chichi clinched the Treasurer's seat with 506 votes against Napali Imbezi's 18. Editing by Tony Mballa