Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah has continued to elicit reactions because of his unique but radical policy proposals should he win the presidency. The acclaimed lawyer who will be taking his first stab at the presidency during the August 9 general election has captured a diverse audience, including academic peers. If elected, Wajackoyah, who has named Justina Wambui as his running mate, has among other things proposed that he will suspend the Constitution. He has also said he will reintroduce the death sentence in Kenya's Judicial system and hand all corrupt individuals by the hemp. Wajackoyah has also said he will introduce snake raring as a commercial venture to cash in on the huge revenue in the venom market. The snakes, he says, he will give out to the Chinese government as part of the deal to offset Kenya's debt. But what has captured the attention of many Kenyans, going by conversations online, is his proposal to legalise bhang. Whereas some have criticised this radical policy proposal as mere attention-seeking antics, some have averred that what the good Professor is proposing is exactly what the country needs in the prevailing circumstances. Among them is the Music Copyright Society of Kenya (MCSK) Chief Executive Officer, Ezekiel Mutua. Mutua holds that what Wajackoyah is proposing is for Kenya's own good. "Wajackoyah teaches us not only to think outside the box but to think without the box. Such radical thinking is needed in Kenya today," Mutua said in a tweet. Mutua's tweet on Monday came a day after he claimed that Wajackoyah's rising popularity could easily force a runoff at the forthcoming polls. The MCSK boss said he had a chat with young Kenyans who articulated to him why they have fallen in love with Wajackoyah. "Prof. Wajackoyah will cause a re-run. I sat down with a group of young people last night and was shocked to hear the animated conversation on why they love the guy," Mutua said. "If the talks are anything to go by, Wajackoyah will get over one million votes and that will be a game-changer," he added. The latest opinion poll conducted by Radio Africa showed that Wajackoyah is the third most popular of the four presidential candidates. The poll conducted between June 8 and 9, 2022 shows that Wajackoyah has a 2.7 per cent popularity rating. He fairs dismally against the leading contenders Raila Odinga of Azimio la Umoja who has a 44.6 per cent popularity rating followed by DP William Ruto of UDA with 38.9 per cent. Whether Wajackoyah will manage to surmount this level of competition and make history on August 9 remains to be seen.