Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito has called on politicians to commit to preaching peace. Speaking after presenting his papers to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for verification and clearance, Mbito  called for tolerance among aspirants vying for elective seats to help curb division and violence as the country nears the general election. "There is no need of exercising supremacy battle and party wars. Let politicians sell their political agenda and manifesto to the electorate peacefully. There is no need of hiring goons to disrupt meetings for other politicians because they do not support your party," he  said. Mbito has opted out of the senatorial race and is instead contesting the Saboti Parliamentary seat on a Jubilee ticket. The one time ally of Deputy President William Ruto will be competing with Saboti MP Caleb Amisi whose party ODM is a member of the Azimio la Umoja one Kenya Coalition. He dismissed calls for zoning which have been advocated by top Azimio leaders to have one coalition candidate in every area of political representation. "There is a likelihood of an eruption of friendly fire in the Saboti MP race. I’m confident of clinching this seat on the election day to give Saboti the real taste of leadership that was missing.’’ He warned youths against being used by politicians to cause chaos during political gatherings. He urged them to shun such politicians out to use them to gain political mileage. "You have seen how some politicians hired youths to try and cause chaos during presentation of their papers to the IEBC today.  It is wrong to take advantage of their vulnerability to instil fear on political rivals,’’ he said. Mbito challenged his competitors to commit to campaigning in a peaceful environment. He appealed to the youth not to be swayed by such politicians and urged them to maintain peace before, during and after elections. He asked residents living in the constituency to be peace ambassadors and shun politics of ethnicity and divisions. Mbito pledged to make Saboti great again through helping the constituents achieve their goals in life. He said youths in the constituency had been excluded from employment. "My leadership as Member of Parliament will be all inclusive, my objective number one is to work with the youths to help them secure good jobs," he said. “If elected, I want to ensure legislation is enacted to support SMEs and other businesses by providing incentives and reducing taxes. This will create employment for our youths. I want to ensure there are no families living in our streets,” he added. Trans Nzoia County assembly speaker Joshua Werunga was also cleared by IEBC to vie for the Trans Nzoia Senate seat. He asked residents to  vote for him and governor candidate  George Natembeya  and Azimio Presidential candidate Raila Odinga. 