At least 33 markets in Nairobi have been rehabilitated during President Uhuru Kenyatta's second term. The transformation included turning them into business hubs to ensure small retail traders operate in a healthy environment. Housing and Public Works PS Charles Hinga on Tuesday said the government has invested heavily to ensure the markets get a facelift. “City Market, being one of Nairobi’s oldest markets, was burned down in 2014 .The renovations took too long and in 2020, the market leadership officially wrote to President Uhuru Kenyatta seeking support because the work had stalled,” Hinga said during a tour of the facilities. He said Uhuru drove to the market after receiving the letter and ordered for its completion. Some 689 traders moved to occupy the upgraded City Park market in July, 2021. The new stalls were given free of charge to those who occupied the place earlier but they will be paying Sh200 a month for maintenance. Other sources of money to maintain the market will be from public toilets and the secured parking lot. “Right now, the traders have dignified places where they can trade from and they were the first beneficiaries of the new stalls, which are more compact, take less space but accommodate more produce,” Hinga added. Each trader has been allocated space in the market. There are also stalls where traders keep their commodities at night. The market has concrete floors and drainage systems have been installed to allow free flow of water and prevent flooding during the rainy seasons. The market has also been divided into sections where traders sell fruits, vegetables, chicken and other poultry products and other goods and services. Other than City market, Kenyatta market was also rehabilitated after Uhuru made an impromptu visit. Nairobi Metropolitan Service has also launched the rehabilitation of eight city markets. They are Jericho, Wakulima, Landhies Road, Kariobangi South, Kayole Spine Road, Embakasi, Uhuru and Muthurwa. Markets that had asbestos roofs were removed and replaced with modern roofing, and perimeter walls and security lighting were also installed. 