Kisumu ODM senate candidate Tom Ojienda has pledged to support legislation on the boda boda sector that will empower operators economically if elected on August 9. He noted that boda boda plays a crucial role in the transport sector and should be constructively and legally empowered financially for socio-economic growth. Being an enabling sector in the country, Ojienda said the sector should be allocated funds anchored in law to enable the operators access loans to empower themselves. "We want riders to be able to access funds to buy and own a motorcycle to boost their income. This will be done through proper legislation and when riders are organized into saccos," he said. The advocate noted that boda boda has created jobs for millions of youths in the country and should be properly funded by the government. While drumming support for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga's and his bid at Kisumu East sub county on Friday, Ojienda noted that  boda boda is a key driver to the country's economy on matters of transportation. He met more than 3,000 boda boda operators and urged them to rally all voters to vote for Raila to the last man. "I have come to thank you for voting for me during the nomination. It is now time to come out in large numbers to ensure Raila clinches the presidency," Ojienda stated. To ensure potential voters cast their vote on August 9, the senior counsel said they will allocate funds to help ferry elderly persons and the sick to exercise their democratic rights of voting. In Kisumu, Ojienda said there are 616,000 voters who should be mobilised to ensure they all vote. Earlier, Ojienda met 35 MCA nominees from Kisumu at Ciala Resort in Kisumu West sub county to deliberate on the best ways to mobilise and consolidate voters behind Raila's bid. In the meeting, it was resolved that the candidates will have joint campaigns to ensure ODM nominees for various seats in the county are elected in the forthcoming elections. Ojienda also pledged his full support for party meetings and rallies geared towards achieving 100 per cent voter turnouts. He also called on candidates and ODM supporters to embrace unity and peaceful campaigns during and after general elections. "We should not let our differences divide us and spoil the votes towards the presidency quest," Ojienda said.