The case against seven men accused of using President Uhuru Kenyatta’s name to con Sameer Group chairman Naushad Merali Sh10 million will proceed on November 21. The three-year-old case had been scheduled for the first hearing before Milimani chief magistrate Wendy Micheni on Thursday, but could not proceed since the prosecution was not ready. The prosecution said witnesses were not present in court to testify. Micheni ordered the case be heard on November 21 without further delay. Joseph Waswa, Duncan Muchai, Isaac Wajekeche, William Simiyu, David Luganya, Gilbert Kirunja and Anthony Wafula have since denied the charge of conspiracy to defraud the businessman using Uhuru's name. All the accused are out on cash bail of Sh100,000 each. According to the prosecution, the seven conspired to defraud Merali by lying they were in a position to sell him a prime piece of land in Milimani, Nairobi county. According to the charge sheet, they conspired to defraud and obtain Sh10 million from Akif Hamid Butt by pretending they were in a position to sell the land to Sameer Africa between January 24 and February 1, 2019. The prosecution alleged the seven called Merali demanding he facilitates the release of the Sh10 million for purchase of the land while mimicking the voice of the President. The businessman was at the time outside the country, but after being convinced the voice was coming from State House, he instructed his finance director Butt to get in touch with the callers who in turn gave him an account number at Equity Bank to deposit the money. He was, however, alarmed by the nature of the transaction after depositing the Sh10 million in the account and reported the matter to police. After investigations, the seven were arrested. In 2019, the seven, through lawyers Cliff Ombeta, Neville Amollo and June Ashioya, had demanded that Uhuru be summoned to testify as a witness to confirm if he owned the number used by the callers. The lawyers had demanded the prosecution disclose any dealings the President has had with Merali to warrant the release of Sh10 million from his company just by a mere phone call. "If he received a call from someone claiming to be the President, then he must have been familiar with that voice and convinced that it was actually the President. It means he had the President’s number and nothing stops the prosecutor enjoining the president in the case,” Ombeta said. The lawyers had said the prosecution should have first consulted the President to confirm if indeed the number was his and whether he was the one who made the call to Merali leading to the release of the Sh10 million. Edited by A.N