The national full bore shooting team say they are buzzing ahead of their participation in the 153rd edition of the Imperial meeting in Bisley, the United Kingdom on 28 June-26 July. Team captain Sanford Otundo said they have come a long way since the challenging Covid-19 period during which most sporting activities came to a halt. "It was a tough period during the Covid period because not much sporting activities were going on. However, things picked up as soon as sporting activities were allowed to resume," Otundo said. He added: "We went out to South Africa where we came in second, which was a good score. We are now going for the Imperial meeting, which is a tough one but I know my team will score well." The team, Otundo further said, is excited to be competing in this premier competition and have worked hard in preparation for this moment. "We have prepared well and as a matter of fact, been in a residential training camp for two weeks before we broke off to take a rest for a week," he said. Otundo was speaking in Nairobi during a flag-off ceremony for the team by Kenya Sports Shooting Federation officials. Federation president Shoaib Vaiyani described the team of shooters as the creme-de-la-creme of full-bore shooting and backed them to deliver on their potential. "This will be a good start for the team after the very long break due to Covid-19. The team has been training in Laikipia and we have chosen a strong team of twenty who we know are well prepared and raring to go and represent Kenya well," Vaiyani said. He further said KSSF will be looking to acquire valuable lessons from the Imperial meeting even as they hope to host full-bore shooting events in the near future. The team, comprising shooters from the Kenya Police Service, Kenya Defense Forces, and Chalbi Shooting Club, is set to depart the country today (Tuesday). Kenya and South Africa are the continent's only representatives at the championship with the other competitors coming from Canada, the U.S, Malaysia, Australia, and New Zealand.