World Under-20 800m champion Emmanuel Wanyonyi says his latest victory in the Rabat Diamond League has increased his confidence to qualify for the World Championship and Commonwealth Games. The junior athlete notched his fourth victory of the year, timing 1:45.47 ahead of Botswana's Amos Nijel (1:45.66) and Frenchman Gabriel Tual (1:45.71) in second and third respectively. "Now I need to focus on the next event, a very important one : the trials in Kenya for the World Championships in Oregon and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. I hope to qualify for these two competitions. If I can go to Eugene, I will go to chase the gold for myself and for my country," Wanyonyi said. The national trials for the two events will be held on June 24-25 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani after which one team will be named to fly the national flag. Wanyonyi's win in the Moroccan capital came hot on the heels of another win in Ostrava, Czech Republic as well as on home soil at the Kip Keino Classic on May 7. The junior attributed his imperious form on track this season to the hard work he has been putting in the training. He is optimistic that he can lower his personal best even further if he continues with the same performances he has been churning out of late. "I gave everything I had today. I had the opportunity to win this race in Rabat, so I didn't want to miss it. Actually, it was quite easy. I'm in a good shape, I'm feeling great on the track, I'm very confident. About my best time, I think I can do 1 min 42 this season,"Wanyonyi said. Equally eyeing a place on the plane to Oregon and Birmingham is 2013 World 5000m silver medalist Mercy Cherono who clinched the women's 3000m in Rabat. In a pulsating race at the Mohammed VI Stadium, Cherono clocked a season's best of 8:40.29, ahead of Briton Amy-Eloise Markovic (8:40.32) and Ethiopian Medina Eisa (8:41.42) in second and third. "I'm so delighted for winning this race today. In the last 15 meters, I had to push myself harder and do my best which resulted in achieving my season best. I now will go back to Kenya to prepare and get ready for the world's championship," the 2014 Commonwealth 5000m champion said. 