Former High Court judge Robert Mutitu was on Tuesday charged in a Nairobi court with conspiracy to defraud Sh6.8million in a land deal. He appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Wendy Micheni. Mutitu, through lawyer Wandugi Karage, pleaded with the court to have a plea deferred for two weeks. The former judge is facing the charges with lawyer John Njoroge Thiong'o, who was not present in court. “The accused was arrested on Monday evening, the second accused who is a legal practitioner practising privately was not in court on Tuesday.  I kindly seek to have a mention after two weeks,” he said. The prosecution had opposed the application, saying the complainant was in court and there were no pending negotiations. They said the investigating officer has indicated they have been tracing the second accused, John Njoroge, for the last three weeks. The prosecution requested a warrant of arrest against the second accused. The intended charge sheet indicates that between April 22 and May 19, last year, in Nairobi they conspired together to commit a felony, namely stealing Sh6,850,000 the property of Jane Wangui Wahome upon land purchase transaction on LR Nairobi /Block 10/695. In the second count, they are facing stealing charges. Mutitu and Njoroge are charged that being agents of Wahome, they stole Sh6,850,000 of the property which had been entrusted to them for the purchase of land on LR No. Nairobi/Block110/695. “The second accused was my pupil and he has just travelled to visit his family in Tanzania and will be back in two weeks, ” Wandugi said. Wandugi said the suspect was in court on Tuesday and he can avail him. “I am not aware of any summons and the second accused will be able to come to court in three courts,” he said. He requested for personal bond against the first accused. Magistrate Micheni deferred the plea for two weeks to allow the Investigation Officer to trace the second accused. She directed lawyer Wandugi to assist in summoning the second accused. The former judge was released on a Sh500,000 bond or a cash bail of Sh 100,000. The matter will be mentioned on July 6 for plea taking.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris