Kitui County Governor Charity Ngilu on Thursday exuded confidence in Azimio la Umoja bagging the presidency come August 9. Speaking during an Azimio rally at Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Nairobi, Ngilu first congratulated Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for rejoining the team. She rekindled remarks made by Deputy President William Ruto's running mate Rigathi Gachagua that seemingly appeared to downplay the Ukambani region vote strength. The Kitui governor said the votes Gachagua appeared to take for granted will now seal their presidency fate as Raila is set to win the forthcoming polls, thanks to Ukambani votes. "Baba's vehicle is now full. The 1.5 million votes from Ukambani that someone (Kenya Kwanza presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua) said cannot take anyone anywhere, will take Raila to the State House," she said. Ngilu said Kalonzo will help rebuild the 2002 government. "We're back to the unbwogable government." She urged Raila to prioritize the needs of the young people if he gets into the presidency saying they need education, jobs and healthcare. "Thank you also for giving us Martha Karua as the running mate. We're now on track to greatness," Ngilu added. The woman leader advised Ruto's Kenya Kwanza Alliance to board the quickest vehicle home saying they are poised to lose the polls. Ngilu was one of the many leaders who lauded Kalonzo fo his bold move of rejoining Azimio. Others are Nairobi Governor Anne Kananu who endorsed Polycarp Igathe for governorship, KANU leader Gideon Moi, Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege and Embakasi East MP Babu Owino. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, Machakos governor aspirant Wavinya Ndeti and Andrew Sunkuli were also present. Kalonzo announced his re-entry to Azimio on Thursday and said he had accepted the offer to be a chief minister when Azimio Coalition forms government. "With humility, I hereby accept the nomination for the position of the chief minister when Azimio forms government." While announcing this, he congratulated Karua for being nominated as the Azimio running mate.