As one of the pioneers of lacrosse in the country, Flora Chebii has joined the big leagues in the sporting world among African women, especially in Kenya where young girls play in the Rift valley and Western regions. Chebii, a second-year medical student at the University of Nairobi, made her first major international appearance at the World Under-19 Women Lacrosse Championships in Toronto, Canada in 2019. The second born in a family of four, Chebii attended Kaliet Septonok Primary School in Nandi County, where she scored 428 marks out of 500 in her Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE). “I started my primary education in Uasin Gishu before heading to Nandi's Kaliet and my marks were amazing. I was the best pupil in my school,”Chebii says. Following her excellent performance in primary school, she joined Moi Girls High School, Eldoret in 2016 and sat for the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) in 2019, passing with an A. No academic pushover Chebii disagrees with individuals who profile sports people as academic dwarfs. “If someone out there has the talent in sports, I want to tell them not to give up. I went to Canada because of sports and this is despite having joined late. If you focus and give it your all,  sports will take you places,” she says. In high school, she took up several leadership roles. She was first appointed the deputy captain for sports before being promoted to the position of deputy school captain in charge of academics and discipline. “I have been an athlete right from primary up to high school. In primary school, I did athletics, netball, and volleyball while in high school, I played a little bit of netball and participated in athletics. However, I mostly concentrated on basketball,”  Chebii explains. She joined Lacrosse in November 2018 in the run-up to the World Under-19 Championships. “I was able to make the team that represented the country in Canada. After that, I did my Form Four and joined UoN to study Bachelor of Medicine in surgery. Now I’m a second-year student in my second semester,” she adds. Chebii says she has gained a lot of exposure from sports, something that has helped her shed off her introverted nature, given she gets to meet many people from different backgrounds. “It is hard to relate with people as an introvert but sports gave me the chance to make friends. I meet people with different personalities and I have learned how to deal with them,” she says. Newfound love Her breakthrough came in November 2018 when she joined lacrosse and started training for an international competition held in Uganda. “It was a big challenge because I did not know anything in the game. I was new in the sport yet I had to compete. I must admit that I really messed up. I remember my coach Moses Muge advising me that I can do better. There were other girls and teachers from different schools who complained about my inclusion in the camp. I kept on training hard. I worked so hard and I got something out of it,” she recalls. Chebii adds: “We used to train during holidays and weekends and we used to have many tournaments at Uasin Gishu High School under our coaches led by Muge, Emmanuel Omusikwa, and fitness coach Ali Hassan. It wasn't easy though, being a newbie in the sport and Chebii had to work overtime to come to grips with the rules and technicalities. "We focused mainly on stick-work, which is all about the game because we pass the ball and score with the stick. That is what I had to really work on because I did not have any idea. Yes, I was fit as a basketball player but I had no idea of the new game,” the 19-year-old explains. In 2019, while in Form 4, she was under pressure as a candidate and needed more time to study and as a deputy captain and she needed to know how to manage time. “During weekends, we used to train a lot, and come Monday, there were workloads of assignments but I had to do it. During the holidays, we used to camp in Nakuru for intense training. I remember how our fitness coach Ali, who was a rugby player, used to push us. We had to go for morning runs like hill work, speed work, and fitness for the entire afternoon. It was not easy and of course, nothing good comes easy,” she said. The training was heavy and selection was based on one's input. “I can say hard work pays more. All that I did, did not go to waste since they did not choose me through favours, especially coming from Moi Girls, it was through what I did while in the field of training. I proved my worth when a team was chosen and started training before heading to Canada,” she says. Throughout that Strom Trentham, the head coach and founder of lacrosse in Kenya, played a pivotal role where the girls did not pay anything. She paid for air tickets, transport, meals and all that was needed. “The experience was definitely amazing...the first time you are in a plane, the first time you are out of the country. It was amazing seeing new things in a new environment. We went through the Netherlands. Our flight touched down in the Netherlands before Canada. So I landed in two countries away from Africa,” she explains. Kenya was the first African country to present a women's team at the championships in women whereas Uganda was the first from the continent to present a men's team  at the same event. “It was something good, playing against countries that have experience in the sport. We lost in the opening match against Korea but I was awarded player of the match. I felt good. Imagine your team has lost but you have been chosen as player of the match against another top nation. It was a small prize of a doll and I still have it in our house,"Chebii remembers. Kenya was in pool C alongside Korea, Chinese Taipei, Germany, China and Jamaica. Hopeful for future Heading into university, Chebii is not worried even though Kenya Universities Sports Association (KUSA) lacks lacrosse as a sport. She says her love for the game is not going to die because KUSA lacks the sport instead the slow growth after Canada, some players have joined universities. “My game won't die and a time will come when the sport will be played in universities. I will not stick to basketball since I have school mates and players from other schools who will enroll at UON and neighbouring universities," Chebii says. She adds: “When I go to university, I want people to know that I played the game and am sure I won't be alone. A number of us will be joining universities in Nairobi and we can be meeting occasionally to play.” This year,  she hopes to compete at the World under 21 Women Lacrosse championships. “Without people like Muge who ensured that I knew how to play, in my fitness class I had Ali and when I needed stick-work and content Storm was there, not forgetting my great team mates. You know you are there playing and team mates who know more are supporting you,” Chebii says. On her parents, she was optimistic that they would support her. “Parents are parents. Even if they are angry at you, it will not last long because you are still their child.  They ensured I got everything. Even though they did not want me to take part in sports, especially in form four during my prime time in lacrosse.  They wanted me to concentrate on my studies and achieve something great. Eventually they supported me in sports.” Having tasted the fruits of lacrosse, Chebii has been selling the sport  to her friends. “Especially at our home when I used to train, I used to play against the wall and learn stick-work. The boys who used to train football at the same place were amazed by what I was training for and I explained to them. That is how we learn and spread the gospel of the game,” she explains.