If a person asked you if you are happy right now, what would your answer be? Maybe it would be ‘I wish I had X, I wish I had Y. That, and social media, has resulted in making us restless, aggressive, and less appreciative of life. They say it is the little things that matter in life,  it is quite normal to anticipate significant events, but putting all your energy towards them can make you miss out on small equally important parts of your day-to-day life. What separates joy from happiness is what lies at the heart. Perhaps you feel a little sad about being single, especially as friends begin moving in with their partners, announcing weddings, opening businesses, or having children. Now in all these things, our patience is tested and it is our habit of getting things corrected instantly which makes it very difficult for us to control ourselves in such situations. The core of the problem is that habit. It is that habit which has developed over a period of many years by for example having it our own way through the internet within a blink of an eye. In the middle of this pandemic and inflation chaos going on in Kenya, it becomes very easy to lose oneself and sink into depression when things do not turn out how we hoped. A 2012 study links greater appreciation of life to increased life satisfaction. Taking time to appreciate the pleasures life brings, however small, can promote satisfaction. Try to limit your time on social media, if that is one of your triggers. Count the little blessings that are around you, and start by listing a few things you are grateful for as part of your journaling. Self-care for men and women is very important. This helps us fall in love and appreciate ourselves and it is good for building our self-esteem. Start by making your bed in the morning when you wake up. Engage in physical activities that will keep your blood pumping, this helps boost your overall mood. Go for more evening or morning walks. Cooping inside your house can build up anxiety and restlessness. Regular meditation can increase happiness and also provide a host of other benefits, including reducing stress and improving sleep. Lack of sleep can have a negative effect on your happiness. If you struggle with falling or staying asleep, try and seek help from professionals. Encouraging yourself to take pleasure in the small things, can make your life richer. Enjoy the journey, and stop worrying too much about the destination.