Deputy President William Ruto and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua are not reformists, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi says. Osotsi says the two have no plans to reform the nation if they ascend to power, but could worsen the situation. The legislator spoke on Thursday during a phone interview with the Star. He said Kenya Kwanza's bottom-up economic model has never worked anywhere globally and therefore it can’t be implemented in Kenya. Osotsi says the model is a fallacy and Kenyans should go with Azimio coalition plans that are achievable. “They are busy condemning what Azimio has for Kenyans. They should come out and tell us what they have, so that we compare which one is the best. “The country is ailing because of rampant corruption that our presidential candidate has promised to end and generate money to deliver what he has promised Kenyans,” he said. The lawmaker said Kenya loses about Sh800 billion every financial year. He said if all loopholes within government are sealed, Raila’s administration will be able to raise the required funds. Osotsi further said they are going to invest heavily on manufacturing that will lead Kenya to another level. “Once we invest in manufacturing the government will create more jobs for youths. We are also eyeing to reduce the cost of power,” he said. The legislator said there are some contracts within Kenya Power that are are under review and once done, the cost of power will go down. He said this will open the window for more investors and lower the cost of manufacturing in the country. Osotsi said Raila is going to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta as polls show he is in the lead. “Raila was slightly behind Ruto before picking his running mate Martha Karua. After his pick, things changed, even the ground has shifted from Ruto to Raila,” he said. The legislator said Raila is currently leading in many areas including Turkana, Narok, Kajiado, Samburu and Trans Nzoia. He said the two are able to steer the nation to another level of development, just as president Mwai Kibaki did, after sealing all corruption holes in the government. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)