The newly approved coding platform for use in primary and secondary schools, Kodris Africa, might face equipment challenges. Only 22,000 schools have been supplied with digital devices. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru has urged Kodris Africa chairman Mwaniki Munuhe to engage stakeholders to fund it. Mucheru spoke on Wednesday during the launch of training for 20 million citizens on digital skills in partnership with Kodris Africa. He said purchasing equipment after every three years could be costly, calling for the implementation of a different technique. “If the government can pay for equipment or leasing devices, this will make them available in all schools,” he said. Mucheru said if this is approved the government would make annual, quarterly payments according to the agreement with the investors. This initiative will be a partnership between financial organisations in the banking sector and the government. “We are leasing cars, instead of the government putting all the money in vehicles, it only pays for servicing and financing,” he said. This method, Mucheru said, is less costly compared to purchasing vehicles after a certain time. “I believe that’s the same model that we should be able to put together through the leadership of the banking sector,” he said. Kodris would have to initiate partnerships with banks or digital companies like Safaricom, Huawei, and Google. “The process is not easy, but if you lease it becomes an expenditure every year and not development, it's just money that is spent and budgeted for,” he said. Kodris Africa CEO Mugumo Munene said the official launch of the coding programme will benefit learners and will be piloted in 150 public schools. One hundred secondary schools will benefit and the remaining 50 will be primary schools. “Today a new language running the country is coding and programming. Without it there would not be any of these popular technologies,” he said. Stanbic Bank CEO Charles Mudiwa said they have committed to supporting schools to acquire devices. “Stanbic Bank plans is donating at least 100 computers to a few schools,”Mudiwa said. Munene said schools can have a package divided amongst the total number of students. He said once divided, the charges range between Sh250 and Sh300 per student to acquire the whole package. “If an individual wants to get the package for coding, they can pay Sh17, 000 annually,” Munene said. The curriculum which was approved by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in April is grouped according to grades or forms. Kodris curriculum has been created in collaboration with education departments of globally recognised universities. It has also been accredited by Pearson, one of the world’s largest education companies.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris