Murang’a senator Irungu Kang’ata has finally been cleared by IEBC to vie for the governor seat. Kang’ata had been given until Tuesday to prove that allegations that his running-mate Winnie Mwangi indeed resigned before February 9. A letter drawn by an individual had been submitted to the commission raising questions on whether Mwangi who served as a lecturer at the University of Nairobi for 25 years had resigned on time. EACC had also flagged her, indicating that it was in the process of verifying whether she resigned at the right time. Kang’ata and his team read malice and pointed an accusing finger at their competitors who they accused of attempting to block their clearance. Mwangi is an expert in land economics and Kang’ata has previously said she will help his administration to boost the number of households in possession of land ownership documents which stands at 30 per cent. “We have been given a nomination certificate and will be on the ballot. Dr Winnie is not going anywhere. She will render services to the people of Murang’a who need their land issues resolved,” Kang’ata said. While addressing journalists just after being cleared on Tuesday morning, Kang’ata asked his rivals to focus on their campaigns instead of hatching plans to bring him down. His lawyer Gachii Mwanza commended the returning officer for giving the team the right to audience and handling the matter professionally. Mwanza said the team realised that the people who wrote to the IEBC were attempting to use the judicial process to derail Kang’ata’s bid. “At the end of the day, Kang’ata has been duly nominated to run and will be on the ballot and the people of Murang’a will choose who will lead them through the ballots, not the courts,” he said. Mwangi on her part reiterated as a team, they are professional and law-abiding. She said the university has trained her to be a good land administrator, a skill she said will come in handy while serving residents. Other candidates who have been cleared include Irungu Nyakera (Farmers’ Party), Wairagu Wa Maai (DP), Jamleck Kamau (Jubilee) and Moses Mwangi (Safina).