The Kisumu City management is in the spotlight over irregular expenditures in the Kisumu Urban Project amounting to over Sh620 million. An audit of the French Development Agency-funded project has flagged variances in the amounts stated by the project against what is in the books as well as unapproved expenditures running to millions. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said her review unearthed an expenditure of Sh531 million on purchase of goods and services and acquisition of assets, which was not approved. “According to the statement of comparative budget and actual amounts, the expenses were not budgeted for during the year under review and no reason was provided for incurring expenditure without an approved budget and annual work plan as required,” the auditor said. The auditor’s concern is that there was no budget adjustment and approval to allow the project utilise some Sh822 million that was in its accounts. “The expenditure for the year amounting to Sh531,951,971 was therefore unauthorised,” Gathungu said in the report for the year ending June 30, 2021 recently tabled in Parliament. The non-registration of a heavy duty refuse compactor that the Kisumu City management acquired using KUP funds at Sh49 million in July 2020 is also in question. "The ownership documents in respect of the machine were not provided for audit verification,” Gathungu said. “In addition, the equipment does not have a registration number and is not recorded in the assets register. In the circumstances, the ownership and tracking of the equipment cannot be ascertained.” The audit further questioned the validity and accuracy of the cash balances reported by the city management at Sh296 million. The auditor further stated that there is a variance of Sh6.6 million, which has not been explained or reconciled with the statement of financial position also posting a variance of Sh54 million. Also queried is an expenditure of Sh6,265,106 on purchase of goods and services, which was not supported by any budget plans. “The management did not avail an approved budget and workplan for 2020/2021 as required by law and financing agreement.” “No reason was, however, provided for operating without an approved budget. In the circumstances, the expenditure of Sh6,265,106 is unauthorised,” Gathungu said. She said although management explained they were related to surrender of imprests for prior years, no further justification was provided. “Consequently, the management was in breach of the law,” she said. Gathungu further cast doubt on whether taxpayers got value for money in respect of Sh18.3 million that was paid towards the completion of the Kemri-Tiengre-Rota road. The money was paid to a contractor in respect of completion of 5.5 kilometres of low-volume access roads at a contract sum of Sh63,687,970. Gathungu said a physical verification of the project during the audit revealed the contractor was not on site and the project was still incomplete. This was due to what was said to be failure of the concrete beams to meet the tests carried out, she said. She pointed out that the management did not provide explanation on the action being taken to have the project completed as it was not equally clear whether the contractor’s request for extension was accepted. “Further, the performance security bond that the contractor provided from M/s Rafiki Microfinance Bank was valid up to July 28, 2019 and there was no evidence provided to show the contractor renewed the bond.” “In addition, the mandatory risk insurance expired on  January 27, 2020 and there was no evidence of renewal. In the circumstances, value for money in respect of Sh18,257,954 paid towards the project was not achieved,” she said. Gathungu also flagged delays in the upgrade of Otonglo market saying the situation may impact on the costs of the project. Physical verification of the project late last year revealed that although the contractor was still on site, the works were far from completion. “The contractor attributed the delay to the Kenya Railways Corporation demolition Company’s construction site and extreme weather conditions,” Gathungu said. She said, however, there was no evidence that the contractor had requested for extension of the completion date. “Under the circumstances, there is likelihood of project delivery delays which may impact on project costs,” the auditor said. Kisumu City managers have also been called out for failing to provide a trial balance to support its financial statements as of June 30, 2021. The audit revealed there was also no ledger to support the basis of preparation of the financial statements and that the opening balances did not agree with the audited financial statements. “Consequently, the accuracy of the financial statements for the year ended  June 30, 2021 could not be ascertained.”  -Edited by SKanyara