Nyali MP Mohammed Ali now claims his life is in danger. In a press briefing on Monday, the MP said unknown men raided his Nyali office on Sunday night. The MP fingered the State for the raid saying it was planned to intimidate him. “The reports that we have is those police officers were forced to shoot in the air to scare away the robbers, who escaped on foot,” said Ali. He questioned how that could happen yet his office is close to that of the deputy county commissioner. The Nyali National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) and various offices of the national government, including that local administration, share a compound in the Kongowea area. The premises, which are fenced by a wall of blocks, are guarded by the police. The vocal MP said the police officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) visited the crime scene on Monday morning to carry out investigations. "As it stands, no one has been arrested. The police came to my offices and looked at the CCTV footage," he said. “They have done dusting for fingerprints, they also reviewed the CCTV footage. There are faces which have been seen in the footage.” Among the things that were allegedly stolen during the raid include televisions. Ali said the officers are still conducting investigations in all the offices to ascertain other things that were stolen. “They (robbers) came and started checking office by office looking for certain documents. For them to take away the televisions, they want it to look like a normal robbery case,” said Ali. “Police officers on the ground are doing stock taking with the fund manager to establish the amount of loss that has been caused.” Mombasa UDA governor candidate Hassan Omar said the incident has been planned systematically to cause fear and intimidate them. “The incident was aimed at intimidating us, to create fear and muzzle our voices,” said Omar. “So it was planned and systematic to create fear because Mombasa is going to break itself away from the cartels who have dominated the politics and the economic life of the region.” Nyali Sub County Police Commander Daniel Masaba, however, dismissed claims that the incident was planned by his officers. He said the police officers manning the offices noticed someone leaving the premise at around midnight carrying a bag on his back. “The officers challenged him to stop, but he started running away. The officers shot one round of ammunition, but he had already escaped,” said Masaba. The officers went back to the office and found that the TV at the reception was missing. “The officers secured the scene and we have since launched an investigation into the theft. So far, we can say it was a normal incident of theft,” he said. Masaba said the suspect jumped over the security wall in the middle of the night and managed to access the MP’s office. He said they suspect at least two people are behind the theft.