Homeboyz RFC coach Oscar Ayodi  wants his charges to improve at the breakdown ahead of this weekend's Driftwood Sevens in Mombasa Ayodi, a former Kenya sevens international, said they will have to minimize the penalties conceded in that facet of play to be competitive at the event. "We were really penalised by the referees at Christie and Sevens Rugby is all about controlling the breakdown," said Ayodi. Ayodi said decision-making will be vital for his charges during the two-day championship. “From our past performance at Christie, we lost two games at the pool stage due to poor decision making and we must improve," he said. The Deejays will be seeking to bounce back at the Coast after a mixed performance in the Christie Sevens, where they beat Catholic Monks 49-10 but lost 14-12 to Western Bulls and 10-7 to Mwamba to drop to the Challenge trophy. In the challenge trophy, Ayodi's charges beat Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) 12-7, dispatched Nakuru 26-19 and then beat Daystar Falcons 26-14 to bag eight key points. For the Driftwood Sevens, Homeboyz is in tricky Pool 'A' where they meet Christie Sevens champions Strathmore, Impala, and Mombasa. The former utility back said they will take one game at a time. "This is a young squad with a few experienced players like Jeff Oluoch and Leonard Mugaisi who are offering leadership and we will take one game at a time,” he said. Elsewhere, Jacob Ojee leads the try scorers charts after two rounds of the 2022 National Sevens Circuit. Ojee, who was the circuit MVP in 2013, has landed a total of 11 tries, one more than his KCB teammate Geoffrey Okwach and Daystar Falcons’ Patrick Odongo who are tied on 10 tries each. The Strathmore Leos trio of Festus Safari, Brunson Madigu and Philemon Olango are part of a group of five players on 9 tries apiece. Mwamba’s Ronnie Omondi and Menengai Oilers Austin Sikutwa round off the quintet. KCB’s Levi Amunga leads the point-scoring charts, having amassed a total of 73 points coming off 5 tries and 24 conversions. He is followed by Homeboyz youngster Amon Wamalwa who is on 60 points, having scored 8 tries and 10 conversions. Others in the top five are—Festus Safari (Strathmore Leos, 57 points), Jacob Ojee (KCB, 55 points) and Strathomre’s Brunson Madigu (53 points).