School playgrounds in Nairobi estates are being grabbed by private developers as most have no title deeds. Land cartels and private developers have over the years been accused of grabbing public with the collusion of officers from City Hall. Recently, residents of Akiba estate in South C have complained a private developer is trying to grab a children's playground. Residents say the playground has been owned by Akiba estate since 1974, but last Thursday a private developer attempted to erect a foundation on plot LR No 209/8294/318. Residents forced workers to flee. Francis Mwangi, the chairman of Akiba estate, said the playground is part of the  10.4ha (25.6 acres) they have owned as a community. He said the playground has been a target of private developers for years and that the "scuffles" always end up in many long court battles. “As a community, we do not have any intention to give out the land. It has been reserved for children's playgrounds and for emergency use. The land is ours," Mwangi said The most famous case was in January 2015 when a developer grabbed Lang'ata Primary School playground. He hired youths to protect 40 masons putting up a perimeter  wall to separate the playground from the school near the Weston Hotel. Demonstrations occurred and one resulted in tear gas being fired at pupils. The school, which had no title deed, finally recovered its land. A number of other cases have occurred. Mwangi said nearby estates in South C such as Jinnah Courts have lost their playgrounds to land grabbers. The developers put up buildings exceeding the four-story legal limit, he said. Residents called on the Nairobi Metropolitan Services to identify and prosecute developers grabbing children's playgrounds. Earlier, MCAs implored on NMS to rein in on increasing cases of grabbing of public utility land by private developers. Nairobi MCAs raised the alarm over the takeover of many playgrounds and open spaces by the private developers colluding with county employees. Eastleigh, Baba Dogo, Karen and Lang’ata are just a few areas affected by new cases of grabbing listed by MCAs. In Nairobi, public school land has always been grabbed due to lack of title deeds. Nairobi county has 2,005 public primary schools, 95 secondary schools. NMS director general Mohammed Badi has warned land grabbers, saying all schools will get title deeds. He said the 283 public schools will receive title deeds after city MCAs complained most public schools lack them, putting property at risk. (Edited by V. Graham)