Opinion polls are not the true reflection of how the August 9 general elections will go, Bungoma Deputy Governor Charles Ngome has said. Ngome who is running for the Bungoma senatorial seat has rubbished the findings of a recent survey that puts Senator Moses Wetang'ula ahead in that race. He said the opinion poll conducted by Mizani were not the true reflection of the wishes of voters who will cast their ballots on August 9. The survey findings shows Wetang’ula leading with 72.1 per cent and Ngome who is the DAP-K candidate trailing by 16.4 per cent, Herman Kasili of UDP got 10.4 per cent. Speaking at IEBC offices after presenting his papers to the commission on Tuesday, Ngome said the journey to send Wetang’ula home had started, adding that the Ford Kenya party leader has been in leadership for long but he has failed the region. “I am now the confirmed DAP- K candidate in the coming polls I have put strategies in place to ensure Wetang’ula goes home,” he said, adding that he fully backs governor Wycliffe Wangamati's re-election because he has delivered in his first term and needs to be given the second term. Ngome urged aspirants to stop playing dirty politicians full of accusations as they need each other after the August polls. “The election is not about fist fights and pointing fingers at each other, we need to style up on how we will run our campaigns and tell what we will do for residents if given the chance to serve,” Ngome said. He said his first task immediately he wins the elections is to pass the Sugar bill at the Senate which was presented before the National Assembly by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. “Both Lusaka and Wetang’ula are in Kenya Kwanza, we are trying to remove them from the leadership because they have caused this stalemate at the Senate,” Ngome said, adding that the duo have failed to pass the bill yet they come from a region where farmers practice sugarcane farming. Ngome urged the region to back Raila Odinga’s Presidential bid in the coming polls saying with Raila-Martha Karua ticket they are poised to win the elections  because Raila has a clean track record. Reginaldah Wanyonyi lauded the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for the good work they are doing. So far, four aspirants have been cleared to run for the seat. 