The Kiambu government is planning to utilise the land ceded by Del Monte Kenya Limited for expansion of Thika town, Governor James Nyoro has revealed. The company ceded 635 acres of its unutilised land in Gatuanyaga ward, Thika East, in 2018. In return, the Kiambu government agreed to renew  the firm’s lease for 8,000 acres for another 99 years. Nyoro, speaking during a tour in Thika on Tuesday, said the land will play a major role in the town’s journey to become the country’s fifth city as crucial amenities will be put up on the land. The governor said the title deed for the land is being processed and will be ready in a few weeks. He said the county government will hold public participation forums with Thika residents to get their views and opinions on how the land will be utilised. Nyoro said a section of the land will be used for construction of an airport, which he said will open up the region for more investment. “We are working closely with the national government to initiate and implement infrastructural projects in Thika geared towards elevating the municipality to a city. The proposed airport will be a key milestone towards achieving this dream and making Thika the country’s industrial hub,” he said. The county chief said an industrial park would also be set up to create employment for thousands of Thika residents. “We are looking forward to putting up a special economic zone on the land that will see more factories open up. The land will be open for massive investments, including cottage industries that will create jobs and bring fortunes to Thika residents and the entire Kiambu county,” Nyoro said. He said other public amenities such as hospitals, schools, social halls and markets will also be built there. Thika traders, led by Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike, welcomed the proposal, saying the town has been experiencing rapid growth with more investors trooping in, hence the need to expand the town. “We also welcome the idea of elevating the town to a city because this means unlocking more business opportunities which will not only create employment but significantly grow the region’s economy,” Wanyoike said. Edited by A.N