With the mandate of the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee set to end on June 18, a high-profile delegation of football stakeholders has scheduled a meeting to contemplate ways of plugging the imminent vacuum. Local football enthusiasts have been pestering Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed for a definite answer concerning the fate of the country on the global stage. This, even as Kenya's future in international competitions remains clouded in uncertainty following an indefinite suspension imposed by the world football governing body, Fifa. Speaking on behalf of the delegates on Monday, acting secretary-general Luthers Mokua revealed that they have reached out to the government for a viable solution. Mokua says a series of behind-the-scenes meetings have yielded the desired fruits and it's only a matter of time before the country is relieved of the existing headache. A delegates conference has now been scheduled for Saturday to chart the way forward. “Pursuant to the Football Kenya Federation consultative meeting held on May 28 and attended by the FKF General Assembly members, it was resolved that a Special General Meeting be held on June 11 at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, Nairobi, Kenya beginning at 0900hrs,” Mokua said. “The meeting will bring together branch officials and Kenyan Premier League clubs' chairmen,” Mokua added. The delegates first swung into action on March 26 when they held a meeting at the Kasarani Sportsview Hotel in Nairobi and reached a contentious decision to revoke the mandate of the FKF National Executive Committee. A section of local football enthusiasts has, however, cast aspersions on the move, suspecting it to be laced with malice. Former FKF chairman Sam Nyamweya lashed out at the delegates for what he termed “a futile attempt to grab the power through the back door”. But Mokua, who is the Nyamira County FKF Branch honcho, has refuted the claims that the delegates are out to derail efforts by stakeholders to push for constitutionally-backed polls in line with the Fifa statutes. “We (the delegates) are working closely with the Sports CS to resolve the pending issue. Claims that we are against the government are misleading,” Mokua said. The disqualification of the men's national team, Harambee Stars, from Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers that kicked off at the weekend opened a fresh can of worms as the CS found herself pressed to move with speed. Kenya set the stage for a fresh round of confrontation with the world football governing body, Fifa, after Amina Mohamed gazetted an 18-member team to run football for a period of five weeks. In a gazette notice, Amina said she had constituted a transition committee to take the reins from the Caretaker Committee. “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 54 (1) of the Sports Act 2013, the Cabinet Secretary for Sports appoints the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee....,” read the Notice. “The mandate of the Transition Committee will be to conduct the affairs of Football Kenya Federation in accordance with the Constitution of Football Kenya Federation.” “Ensure that Football Kenya Federation operates within the provisions of the Sports Act, 2013.”