The Kisumu county government has employed 665 early childhood development education (ECDE) teachers on permanent and pensionable terms. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the teachers drawn from the seven sub-counties have been serving on a contract basis. Nyong'o presided over the issuance of permanent and pensionable service letters to the teachers at the County Public Service Board office on Friday. He lauded the teachers for working diligently to give academic nourishment to the children. “As a reward for the good job they have done to our children, my Cabinet has decided to put all of them on permanent and pensionable terms,” Nyong’o said. “We have done this to motivate and enable the teachers to plan well as they realise their career development. You will no longer be worried about the renewal of your contracts.” The teachers are now creditworthy and access loans for personal development. Nyong’o said the employment has been done in strict observance of labour laws and all relevant legal statutes. This, he said, was also in line with the resolutions of the Council of Governors (COG) in the ECDE sector. Nyong’o said Kisumu joins Busia, Nyandarua, Nakuru and Bungoma counties that have their ECD teachers engaged on permanent and pensionable terms. He pointed out that the management of Pre-primary Education in Kenya is placed under the county government as outlined in the Fourth Schedule of the constitution of Kenya 2010. The Early Childhood Education Act 2021 in its entirety further outlines the involvement of the County Governments in terms of health and rights to Early Childhood Education. In Kisumu County, there are 684 ECD centres of which 627 are anchored in Primary Schools and 57 are stand-alone public ECD centres. The public ECD centres have a total enrolment of 52,818 children of whom 26,003 are girls and 26,815 are boys. Nyong’o said his government has undertaken various measures to develop the sector and to ensure the foundational education is deeply entrenched. He said the county has maintained support for the school feeding program by supplying rice and oil to all the ECD centres to complement the efforts of parents. The intervention is aimed at improving their learning performance in schools through increased enrolment, retention, completion rate and 100 percent transition. They also invested in the construction of standard classrooms with teachers’ rooms and toilets for the ECD children to learn in a good environment. He pointed out that 60 percent of all schools have ECDE classes built by the County Government and very soon all the Centres will have classrooms constructed. Nyong’o said the county has given priority to good sanitation to young learners to keep off diseases that crop in due to non-observance of hygiene. He said the county’s health department undertakes vaccination against diseases, deworming and provision of vitamin A supplements half-yearly in all the ECD Centres. The county also provides capitation to young learners to ensure quality education is achieved. “It is also our responsibility to ensure quality education is accessible to our children through the distribution of stationery,” Nyong’o said. He stated that they have supplied textbooks, exercise books, pencils, sharpeners and erasers to children in schools. The county, he said, has distributed chairs and tables to ECD centres countywide to ensure children learn in a conducive environment. He said the workforce is coordinated by officers at the county, sub-county and ward levels. He outlined that his administration was committed to making Early Childhood education vibrant, saying it was the strongest foundation for education in society. “Because of the great job the ECDE teachers were doing, I doubled their salaries, making them some of the best-paid teachers across the country,” he said. Nyong’o urged teachers to exercise professionalism and decorum while discharging their duties of nurturing the young Kenyans. “You will be under probation for six months and during this period your immediate supervisor will assess your suitability to continue serving, advise for extension of probation or termination of the contract,” he said. He told the teachers to prove that his cabinet and the Public Service Board did not make a mistake by giving them permanent and pensionable terms. “As role models in society, the children under your care depend on you for cognitive, social and spiritual development. Facilitate this to make Kisumu comparable to none,” Nyong’o said.