Jubilee Party Vice-chairperson David Murathe has cautioned Deputy President over the rising popularity of Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah. During an interview with NTV on Wednesday, Murathe said that the Roots Party has become popular in the last two months, and this was posing a threat to DP Ruto and not Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. "Wajackoyah is only hurting the Deputy President because they are appealing to the youths by coming up with real solutions," Murathe said. He tore into Kenya Kwanza's policies, saying that they do not bring solutions to the youths and Kenyans at large, unlike Wajackoyah's agenda. According to Murathe, Azimio is not worried about the popularity of the Roots Party and its presidential candidate because their manifesto is in line with solving Kenyans' problems, just like Wajackoyah's. While throwing his support behind some of the policies of the Roots party presidential candidate, Murathe noted that his weed manifesto should not be overlooked. "I like what Wajakoyah is saying about the medicinal marijuana, in fact, it is something that has been adopted in South Africa," Murathe said. Wajackoyah, who is expected to launch his manifesto on July 2, has proposed radical reforms including the legalization of marijuana for export, the upscaling of snake farming to produce antivenin and a death sentence for those found guilty of corruption. The Roots Party presidential candidate has argued snake farming has the potential to generate sufficient revenues to help offset the national debt. “It’s not only Marijuana, we’re introducing snake farming so that we can actually extract snake poison for purposes of medication,” he said in a past interview. His popularity has been on an upward trend, with the latest poll putting him in the third position after DP Ruto and ODM leader Raila. In poll results released on Tuesday, Raila leads with 50 per cent while Ruto trails him at 25 per cent in Nairobi. Wajackoyah was at 7 per cent. The poll was conducted on June 20, 2022, where 632 respondents who are all registered voters were interviewed. The interviews were conducted through the telephone. The poll has a margin error of +/-3.8 per cent.