Age should determine how well we have experience in fashion trends, instead of making us have boring outfits. However, as individuals grow, we tend to become more reserved with our bodies, concealing sensitive parts. Especially women, they tend to become keener with what they expose and what they cover. This is because the bodies change and become more inclined towards baggy clothes. COVER-UPS AND KIMONOS To remain classy despite growing old, one can choose to wear something a bit fitting but not too revealing. This can be spiced up with long cover-ups and kimonos that will increase confidence. Whenever you wear a shorter skirt, adjust the height of the heel so the shorter the skirt, the lower the heel. It’s a simple style secret to show less of one body part when you’re showing more of another. If you wear an off-shoulder blouse or show more cleavage, then forgo that short skirt in favour of a midi skirt or a pair of slacks. The outfit needs to feel as good as it looks. A skirt too tight or lingerie that pinches takes all the fun out. The dress or trousers should be fitting as well as the dress to allow you to go on with duties instead of adjusting it. While we want to have fun with style, our clothes need to fit beautifully and reveal the true feminine nature. REMAIN UP TO DATE A person should filter trends into the wardrobe, pay attention to current hairstyles, makeup and skincare. Nothing is more ageing than an outdated haircut or makeup that’s stuck in the 1970s. With the help of social media or even our partners, one can learn about trends in fashion. Style doesn’t have an expiration date, so one can explore with old trends but still make them look trendy. For example, long blazers can be styled perfectly well with mummy- jeans or wide legged pants. DO'S AND DON'TS Dos Get a good tailor Define your waist, no matter how big or small. Keep your skirt and dress lengths to the knee. Don't show too much skin Keep it simple; stay away from bling. Mute the loud prints, lean toward solids  Dont's Too much makeup Cleavage Baggy and Oversized Clothes. ... Light, neutral colour Heels Crop tops and hot pants