Envoys have lauded the Kenya Forest Service for the strategies employed to surpass the 10 per cent tree cover by 2022. They say it is as a result of the campaigns done by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government, KFS, environmentalists and stakeholders on the dangers posed to the country, if nothing was done. Kenya permanent mission to UN HABITAT ambassador Jean Kimani said the envoys are ready to assist the country with ideas on how to conserve the environment, to address the challenge of climate change. Kimani spoke on Friday at Uplands forest in Lari, Kiambu where she led her members of staff, members of diplomatic corps and the Uplands Community Forest Association to plant 1,000 seedlings of indigenous trees. The envoy included ambassadors of the United States, Sudan, Brazil, Bangladesh, Algeria, Egypt, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Senegal. The members of the diplomatic corp have adopted one hectare (2.47 acres) at Uplands forest to plant trees.  Also present were Lari assistant county commissioner Karanja Kimata, Kiambu ecosystem conservator Thomas Kiptoo and Uplands Forester Isaac Waweru. Kimani said the forests near Nairobi such as Uplands have water sources that need to be conserved. “They feed Nairobi residents with clean water.” An environmentalist John Njane told the delegation that nearby Ruiru dam is fed by tributaries from Uplands and Bathi forests, the clean water is piped to Nairobi. UN HABITAT deputy ambassador Natalynne Maingi thanked the CFA for assisting in the strategies set by the government to achieve 12.13 per cent tree cover. She said the Plantation Establishment Livelihood Systems, where residents acquire pieces of land to cultivate and nurture trees has helped increase trees in the forest. Maingi said adopt a forest method has helped since state agents, corporates as well as institutions have adopted pieces of land to plant trees. Kiptoo also appealed to residents who plant trees at their homes to keep planting, to protect the environment. KFS chief conservator Julius Kamau on June 3, said the forest cover stood at 6.99 per cent in 2013 but declined to 5.99 per cent in 2018. However, Kamau said the issue led to the national tree planting campaign, launched Uhuru in March 2018 and that has seen the percentage rise to 12.13 per cent this year. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)