Considering he is only 26, it is quite intriguing that Eric Thongori knows so much about the history of cars, dating back to the days when Kenya was still a protectorate. He describes himself as a lover of vintage and classic cars, whose bond with these four-wheeled machines began when he was driven home from the hospital as a newborn in his father's 1978 BMW 520. "My earliest memory of a sleek car that took my breath was when I was about four years old. My father took my baby sister and I for a ride around the estate in a sleek BMW belonging to his friend," Eric says. "It was a Saturday morning and I remember excitedly scrambling into this sleek, beautiful and black car. I came to learn later on that it was a BMW 5 (E34)." The experience left such an impression on him that in the following days, he would mimic the sound of the car engine. "With growing curiosity, I started pressing buttons in this wonder of a car and the interior lights came on. At the same time, something magical happened as I continued to press the buttons: the roof of the car opened!" he says. With an over 20-year passion for cars, Eric decided to pay tribute to the 'love of his life' by documenting the history of cars and the transport industry in general. Titled 'Cars and Motoring in Kenya', the book is a product of extensive research and collection of information collected through various means, such as library searches and interviews with the movers and shakers of the automobile industry. He describes it as a drive through history of cars in Kenya, beginning with the first major road in Kenya — the Mackinnon-Sclater Road that was built in 1890. "I also love a good story, a story of how things came to be; the history about people and events. How did they start? When were they started? How was it like back then?" Eric says. It is with these questions in mind that he explores the intrigues behind the arrival of the first car at the Mombasa port in 1903, the first car distributor (Nairobi Motor Garage, later CMC Motors), the early vehicle registration formats and the pioneers of the motorsport industry in the country.