Problems in the Kenya swimming fraternity deepened following the resignation of three members from the Interim Management Committee (IMC) working group. Kenneth Karani, who was appointed joint head of the secretariat in March, threw in the towel citing a lack of transparency in the committee. Two other members Stanley Kaberu and Elijah Kimani have also resigned. In a letter addressed to the Head of the Sports Dispute Tribunal, John Ohaga, Karani tore into the committee terming it a let down to the swimming fraternity. In his letter, Karani said: "The events and happenings of the past month have convinced me that there is no serious intention amongst some sitting members of the reconstituted IMC Working Group to defend or uphold such principles including bringing the stalemate and the issues bedeviling the federation to an end." He went on: "It appears most of us are happy to benefit and thrive out of this confusion at the expense of the majority of deserving swimmers and swimming in Kenya. "It very much appears that IMC Working Group, in the light of recent events, is little more than an alternative vehicle for the entrenchment of key individuals who now seek to further their interests and that of their cronies at the expense of the sinking troubled KSF." He added: "I have been here for two months yet there are no genuine efforts to agitate for the clear roadmap to elections, serious issues facing the federation, budgets, proper processes, transparency, planning and proper public institution management practices. I am now convinced that very little appetite exists to accept, let alone rectify, the very serious challenges which face the now KSF suspended federation." He noted that the reconstituted IMC has no hope of changing the sport as it is divided into various groups/factions. "One faction has no access to crucial information and communication while programs, events, budgets and minutes are prepared outside the meetings by some individuals to suit their narratives," he revealed. Karani said a great fraud is being perpetrated against the Kenyan swimmer, coaches, and the entire swimming fraternity and he no longer wants to be part of leadership. On his part, Head of Strategy and Innovate thinking, Elijah Kimani said division in the committee doesn't augur well for the sport. "Unfortunately, the division in the current IMC-WG creates two camps that strongly believe that they are working for the best interest of swimmers but have different approaches to doing so,” added Kimani. Stanley Kaberu, who was a member of the committee, resigned citing a lack of commitment to holding elections in order to save Kenya swimming from FINA ban.