About 20 scrap metal dealers in Murang'a have applied for licences from the Scrap Metal Council to enable them do business. Last month, the government lifted the ban on scrap metal after putting in place regulations that require traders to acquire licenses. Murang’a county industrial development officer David Mbithuka said only licenced dealers will be allowed to operate. He confirmed that three dealers have been vetted and licenced and the county committee is going around the subcounties vetting the dealers and the process will be concluded in the next few days. Mbithuka, who spoke on Friday while vetting the traders, said stern actions will be taken against dealers who are found operating against the law. “Once a dealer fulfills the requirements, the licence is processed in two days,” Mbithuka said. The team, he said, is working with the county security team to ensure the sector is strictly regulated. In order to be licenced, dealers should produce a Scrap Metal Dealers’ Association membership number and a business registration certificate. The dealers are also required to have a business permit, plot title or lease agreement, tax compliance certificate, KRA PIN and Certificate of Good Conduct. “Those who have applied for the licence should show up with these documents and they will be cleared,” he said Mbithuka said dealers will also be required to keep detailed records of all their scrap metal dealings, including the name, contacts and identity card number of the person buying or selling to them. They also need to erect detailed signposts displaying their licence numbers and indicating that they are authorised scrap metal dealers. Dealers intending to trade with copper and aluminium scrap metals are required to have another license that will conform to Nema's environmental laws and regulations. A dealer’s licence costs Sh250, 000 while scrap metal collectors pay Sh50, 000. The government introduced strict measures in order to control the sector and avert vandalism of public infrastructure like electric poles, road guard and railway lines. Traders have been complaining that the licencing process is too expensive and locks a majority of them out of their source of livelihood. Traders without licences risk three-year imprisonment or a fine of Sh10 million. (Edited by Tabnacha O)