The federal government of Somalia is set to lift a ban on the sale of Miraa after successful negotiations between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Somalia President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said the two heads of state dialogue on the sale of Miraa into Somalia in exchange for the sale of fish into Kenya has materialised awaiting official documents to be signed in two weeks' time. Speaking to journalists at Kaliati village in Tigania West, Meru, before starting his campaign trail, Munya said President Uhuru has the best interests of the Meru people at heart. Munya who drummed up support for Azimio la Umoja flag bearer Raila Odinga scoffed at Deputy President William Ruto saying he, Aden Duale, and his team have been stumbling in re-opening Miraa markets. “Ruto told you in one of Meru TV stations to uproot Miraa. Ruto can't protect our crop. The only person who will defend and seek more Miraa market is Raila Odinga, so vote him on August 9,” Munya said. He said the bilateral Airspace Service agreement lifted the ban on passenger and cargo planes from Somalia to Nairobi. “Diplomatic relations will too be restored. Experts from the two countries from Agriculture and Trade ministries have been in intense deliberations,” Munya said on Friday. “I urge our farmers who had abandoned the crop to water them. The only bit remaining is paperwork and trade will return to normal like before.” Munya, who was accompanied by Trade and Industrialisation PS Kaberia said Miraa will be exported to Somalia through Isiolo Airport to cut farmers' expenses. “In two weeks, Miraa will be transported through Isiolo Airport to Somalia. Somalia is the premium and largest Miraa. We will get the crop's transit to the Middle East and hon of Africa like Djibouti, Somaliland, and others,” Munya said. Somalia suspended miraa imports from Kenya two years ago, on March 19, 2020, citing Covid-19 restrictions but the suspension was never lifted as diplomatic issues kicked in. The ban led to a loss of a daily market for more than 50 tons of khat valued at more than Sh20 million.