All is set for this year’s Standard Chartered Marathon with at least 25,000 people expected to participate in the annual event in Nairobi. The event will be launched on June 25, 2022 at the Aboretum, Nairobi, ahead of the marathon on October 30. The Nairobi County Government will be one of the main sponsors of the event that attracts runners from across the world. Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu encouraged Nairobi residents to register and participate in the event whose primary aim is to sponsor charity work. “I will take part in this year's edition. I would like Nairobi residents and Kenyans at large to register and support this worthy cause,” she stated. She spoke on Saturday at City Hall during a meeting with the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon organizing committee. Those present at the meeting were chief of staff Paul Mutunga, Environment county executive committee member Larry Wambua and Local Organising Committee chairman, Peter Gitau. Kananu revealed at the event that she will soon launch a weekly Governor’s race to be held every Friday ahead of the marathon. “I invite all Nairobi County staff to take part in order to keep fit and be ready for the marathon,” she said. The marathon will feature 10km, 21km and 42km races for both male and female participants, 21km wheelchair race for males and females and the 5km Family Fun Run race. Gitau said 15,000 of the participants will feature in the physical run while 10,000 others will take part in the virtual event from locations of their choice. “We are going to have the biggest ever event this year with at least 10,000 Kenyans taking part in the marathon in whichever location they are if they register for the marathon through our official channels including the website,” Gitau said. Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon has featured 250,000 participants in 18 editions since its inception in 2003. It has since grown tremendously and earned recognition from the World Athletics and the Association of International Marathons and Distance Races (AMS). It is currently the largest single-day sporting event in Kenya.