Ex-Kenyan international and skipper Victor Wanyama wants the government to initiate urgent talks with the world football governing body, Fifa, to resolve the prolonged impasse. Speaking exclusively on Tuesday, Football Kenya Federation presidential hopeful Twaha Mbarak said he paid the Kenyan legend a courtesy call at his home in Montreal, Canada on Monday evening where they talked at length about the Kenyan football scene. “Wanyama is concerned about the existing standoff between the government and Fifa and has asked the Sports CS Amina Mohamed to expedite the process of seeking a permanent solution to the crisis,” Mbarak said. “Wanyama said ending the stalemate would enable the country to return to international competitions and afford the Kenyan youth a chance to attract the attention of foreign scouts,” Mbarak added. Mbarak also revealed that Wanyama was considering a return to international football after calling time on his career a year ago. “I asked him to think over it because he still has the energy to steer the national team to unprecedented success and he promised to consider my request,” Mbarak said. Mbarak said the Montreal star was actually thrilled to learn that Kenyan football fans are still craving for his services in the national team. “Wanyama is eager to contribute positively towards the growth of Kenyan football and give our budding footballers all the relevant support.” Mbarak said Wanyama is still in perfect form and the fact that a significant number of European clubs are still lusting for his signature attests to his growing demand in the cutthroat market. “Clubs in England, Germany, and Turkey have expressed a desire to win him over,” Mbarak said. Mbarak said Wanyama also urged Kenyans to secure the future of the country's football by making wise decisions in the next FKF polls. “He wants good managers at the helm of FKF leadership. He actually called for a fresh start,” Mbarak said. Wanyama announced retirement from international on October 4, last year. The 30-year-old former Tottenham midfielder said it had been a really difficult decision to quit Harambee Stars. 