Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga was forced to cut short his speech during a political rally in Athi River, Machakos County on Sunday. Raila who was accompanied by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka hurriedly left Makadara shopping centre after chaos erupted at the dais. There was a fist fight after two camps belonging to Machakos Wiper governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti and her CCU counterpart Nzioka Waita clashed over unknown issues. Both of them had accompanied Raila and Kalonzo in the rallies before the fight broke. Raila arrived in Athi River accompanied by Kalonzo, Wavinya Ndeti, Nzioka Waita, among other leaders. They had conducted political rallies in Masinga, Matuu, Masii towns in Masinga, Yatta and Mwala sub-counties respectively. Both Ndeti and Waita never addressed the public in Athi River. There are claims that a sitting member of Parliament physically attempted to block Waita and a Mavoko parliamentary candidate from getting near Raila at the podium sparking the fight. "We are ready to play with the Tanga tanga team. I will play number nine, I have my team here," these were Raila's last words before he cut his speech short. Bodyguards pounced on some of those who were on the dais as Raila made his speech. When the situation became unbearable, Raila stopped his speech and left. "The MP was physically preventing Waita and an MP candidate from moving closer to Raila. They forced themselves closer and then tension ensued leading to the fights," a source said. Kalonzo had earlier unsuccessfully told Waita to shelve his governor bid in Wavinya's favour. "I am happy that Wiper's team is strong. Those others are our youths, we will talk with them," Kalonzo said in Masinga. "Nzioka is my friend, I will talk to him. For now, Wavinya is okay, " Kalonzo said. He was booed as Waita protested his push for Ndeti's candidature. There had been heightened tension all through the rallies among Waita and Ndeti supporters. Waita asked Raila not to bow to Kalonzo's pressure in forcing him to endorse Ndeti. Raila continued selling his manifesto to the public. He never endorsed either of the two. "I keep saying the people of Machakos will decide for themselves who they want as their governor. Attempts to force an endorsement for my competitor fell flat on their face," Waita said. Mavoko constituency is perceived to be Ndeti's political bedroom owing to the fact that she hails from Athi River. She was born and raised within the town. Her parent's home is barely 300 metres from Makadara shopping centre, the venue where Raila was forced to cut short his speech following the skirmishes. Mavoko also is the constituency with the highest number of voters in Machakos County according to the IEBC register.