Stanbic Bank has pumped Sh30 million in the second edition of the Yetu Festival which will be headlined by an American Jazz songwriter and Grammy Award Winning Artist Antony Hamilton. In partnership with Radio Africa Group, the lender is looking to leverage music to bring to life Stanbic’s brand promise “It Can Be” and create a soulful and magical live musical experience in Kenya. The event slated for July 30 at Carnivore Grounds in Nairobi seeks to nurture, and promote the development of both the visual and performing arts, encouraging engagement, social interaction and embracing diverse initiatives. Speaking at the partnership signing ceremony yesterday, Stanbic Bank's chief executive Charles Mudiwa said they are proud to be a part of Kenya’s arts and cultural legacy. ''We are deeply committed to ensuring Kenya’s talent can be celebrated by promoting arts and music and we believe that by doing so, we are contributing to the growth of the entertainment industry and the economy,'' Mudiwa said. His Radio Africa Group counterpart Patrick Quarcoo said he is glad to partner with Africa’s largest banking group by assets to create such a wonderful moment of celebration to bring back soul music. The two firms organized the inaugural Stanbic Yetu Festival musical journey in August 2020 to create awareness of Covid-19 and inspire families at the height of the pandemic. The virtual concert brought together musicians and fans for an innovative music experience to help sustain and connect the local and global music community during the pandemic. In that single night, 7.4 million Kenyans joined the first-ever simulcast of a music concert, a collaboration between Stanbic Bank and all major media outlets in the country. The concert will also be graced by local artists including Otile Brown, June Gachui and The Motown in Nairobi ensemble. The concert will also showcase some of the best Kenyan old and new Soul Dj’s including DJ Pinye, DJ Stylez and DJ Forro. The tickets are available at all Stanbic Bank Branches and on  www.ticketsasa.com. Regular tickets go for 8000, Couples Tickets 14,000 while VIP tickets are only 15,000. You know what they say? the early bird catches the worm so hurry and book your ticket. Life is too short not to dance, so go get your dancing shoes ready.