Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has implored residents to support his gubernatorial bid, saying doing so will prepare him to be the next Luhya kingpin. He said the journey he has started will not end with the governor’s position and his focus is 20 years from now. Malala spoke on Wednesday during his campaign in Kakamega. “You know very well that every community is grooming Young Turks to take up the leadership of this country in the future," he said. "The Kikuyu community has started raising the likes of Ndindi Nyoro, Kalenjins the likes of Kipchumba Murkomen, Kambas have Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and the Luos are grooming Tom Kajwang, among others." Malala said the Luhya community needs to ask themselves who will be their leaders in 20 years to come. "Whom shall we have as the Luhya community kingpin?” he posed. Malala, who is vying for the seat on the ANC ticket in Kenya Kwanza, is set to battle it out with ODM's Fernandes Barasa, UDP’s Cyrus Jirongo and Maendeleo Democratic Party's Samuel Omukoko. Others are Suleiman Sumba (Kanu), lawyer Michael Osundwa and Optiso Otieno (independent). Malala said voting for him will be part of mentoring and growing his leadership skills, so that in 2042 when other communities will be fronting their presidential candidates, the Luhyas will front him for the top position. “Our journey towards seeking the top leadership of this country is beginning right now. Don’t look at my age, rather look at me 20 years from now. If you fail to vote for me in August, it will mean you have frustrated and abused the efforts of the Luhyas 20 years from now," the legislator said. "You must hold my hand, nurture me, bring me up as your own son and never leave me alone. When I make mistakes, kindly call me aside as elders of this community and correct me.” Malala said the Kikuyu community held Uhuru Kenyatta's hand when he was little-known and nurtured him to become president. He said the Kalenjins have mentored and supported William Ruto to become the deputy president and is now seeking the presidency. "As the Luhya community, it is time we identify a leader and start building and mentoring him so that we can also lead this nation one day. That leader is me Cleophas Wakhungu Malala,” the senator said. Edited by A.N