Former governor David Nkedianye and his running mate MP Joseph Manje were on Monday cleared by IEBC to vie for the Kajiado gubernatorial seat. This was after Governor Joseph Lenku and his deputy Martin Moshisho was cleared by the same electoral body on Saturday. Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito and his running mate Judy Pere were cleared on Sunday. Nkedianye and Manje presented their documents that including academic credentials to the county IEBC returning officer Festus Muchege. Soon after being cleared, Nkedianye told journalists at the Maasai Technical Training Institute that he is going to hit the campaign trail after the burial of Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi’s wife, Stella, on Tuesday. He said as soon as Memusi’s wife died in a road accident on Monday last week, he ceased his campaign as a show of respect to the Memusi family. “My campaign will kick off on Wednesday because this team that is behind me requires change. The people of Kajiado are tired of waiting for drugs in government hospitals, water in our urban centres, and good roads,” said Nkedianye. He claimed that when he was elected in 2013, he did the best for the county despite the little amount of money he received annually from the national treasury. “I built hospitals and equipped them with drugs, and medical staff, and also bought ambulances for all the county hospitals. Today, all the ambulances and fire-fighter vehicles are rusting in the junkyards,” said Nkedianye. The former governor told the people of Kajiado to give him the desired votes in the August 9 general election so that he can claim the glory of the county for them. He said he left office after the 2017 general election because at the time the system was against opposition governors, adding that his removal by the state has cost the people of Kajiado their pride. “Elect me to that office, and I will never let you down. We have enough own taxes that is enough to help all our business people who were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is also enough to help our women and young people to put up businesses,” said Nkedianye. He said that once elected, he will seek resources to fund women and youth groups in the county, adding that the Covid-19 pandemic messed up everyone in the county. “My running mate and I will run this county professionally. We will not be putting taxes collected locally into our pockets. Improving the economy of this county means you will be able to get medicine in your hospitals and all the necessary government services,” said Nkedianye. Manje pledged to be loyal to his boss so that they can revive the economy of the county in a record time. He said the county has many resources that have not been tapped well because those in leadership are interested in caring for their stomachs only. Earlier on, Nkedianye appealed to his competitors to address issues in their campaigns and not people. “I have told my fellow candidates for the various positions in Jubilee not to use vulgar language against their competitors from other parties because Kajiado is bigger than us," said Nkedianye. "This election will come and go, but we shall remain as the united people of this region.”