AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda believes the Sh60 million sponsorship deal the club has secured with Spotika will ease off the incessant financial headache they have endured in recent times. Shikanda spoke after the firm pledged to sponsor the 13-time Kenyan champions effective next season. Spotika marketing manager, Alfred Otieno, unveiled the sponsorship package at a colorful ceremony held in a Nairobi hotel graced by Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Director of Immigration Alex Muteshi. Shikanda said they would channel a huge chunk of the funds into paying salaries. “Basically, our key concern is to ensure we create a conducive atmosphere for our players by promptly paying their salaries and allowances,” Shikanda said. “We've witnessed a mass exodus of star players in recent years and this deal will most certainly prevent such situations in the future.” The woes of the club deepened at the end of the season after their immediate erstwhile sponsors Betsafe withdrew their Sh20m annual deal. Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma was elated by the development, saying it would boost the morale of the team ahead of the new season. “This is definitely very good news. We are now certain of a good performance next season given our title contention in the preceding season was watered down by financial difficulties,” said Juma. “I believe with such sponsorship, the community clubs will get back on their feet. I'm told Gor Mahia will also be unveiling their sponsors in the coming days and that means we shall be having a very competitive league next season, especially between the two arch-rivals.” “The league was crippled by the absence of sponsors, something that led to Mathare United's downfall towards the end of the season. We hope that more sponsors will come on board to rescue the community clubs that have endured tough times, especially after the Covid-19 pandemic,” Juma said. Meanwhile, Shikanda, said he needs more time to complete some of the ambitious projects he had envisioned for the club upon assuming office in 2019. The Leopards honcho headlines a list of six candidates cleared to vie for office in the club elections slated for Sunday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The six got the nod from the Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD) — the organisation tasked with overseeing the polls — during an exercise conducted on Tuesday. Shikanda will face, among others, former club CEO Ronald Namai in his bid to retain the seat he secured in 2019.