A 14-year-old boy from Kaningo in Mwingi was attacked and killed by stray elephants a few meters from his home. Area chief Joseph Muthengi confirmed the incident that occurred on Monday evening. Muthengi said the Standard 8 pupil from Kingitini Primary School was herding donkeys when he met the stray elephants that have been in the area for more than a month. "As the boy was heading home he encountered the elephants and opted to run away but they pursued him, killing him on the spot," he said. The stray elephants, which are believed to be from the Kora National Reserve, have been terrorising residents in Tseikuru and Ngomeni wards in Mwngi North. Residents have been pleading in vain with the Kenya Wildlife Service officers to rescue them from the elephants. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu sent his condolences to the family, saying he contacted KWS director general Brigadier Waweru to intervene since the elephants have been giving residents sleepless nights. "I call upon KWS to ensure they herd back the elephants to the park before they cause more deaths and destruction," he said. Elsewhere in the Mandongoi area of Ngomeni, residents took 17 camels to the Ngomeni police station for trespassing and feeding on their plantation. Peter Mwenga, one of the farmers said the camels fed on everything in their shamba yet it is their only source of livelihood. "I don’t understand why herders come to destroy our crops under the watch of the security officers yet we never cross to Tana River county to do farming there. The government should know we are tired of this conflict that has lasted for more than 30 years," he said. The farmers said the camels are herded into their farms at night while their herders, who are mostly armed hide in the bushes. "If we meet them and question them on why they are feeding their camels on our farms, they say  "hii ni matawi ya Mungu"(these are God's leaves)," Mwenga said. "We decided to take the animals to the police station so that the owners can come out and compensate us." Mwenga said that the conflict has left many dead, homeless, orphans and widowed. Mwikali Muneni, a resident said they are spending nights in bushes together with their children in fear of attacks by the camel herders. "We are tired! Let the government rescue us from this slavery in our own land," she said. MP Nzengu asked Kyuso subcounty DCC and OCPD to take necessary actions to ensure the residents live in peace. "The camels that were taken to Ngomeni police station should not be released until the owners compensate the farmers," he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)