Defending champion Novak Djokovic says the possibility of not being allowed to contest another Grand Slam for 11 months is “motivation” for Wimbledon after his quest for a fourth successive title began with a four-set victory. Serbia’s former world number one, 35, has said he would rather miss out on competitions than get a Covid vaccine. The 20-time major winner missed the Australian Open following a row over his vaccine status, while proof of vaccination is also currently required to gain entry into the United States. Djokovic has been banned from entering Australia for three years following his deportation in January, although was told by former Prime Minister Scott Morrison that he could be allowed back sooner under the “right circumstances”. But should nothing change, it would mean that after Wimbledon Djokovic would be unable to play at a Grand Slam until next year’s French Open. “I guess that motivates me more to try to make the most out of this tournament,” the six-time Wimbledon champion said. “There’s not much time after Wimbledon before the US Open. I’m hoping some things can change and that I’ll be able to go and compete. “I would want to. But it is what it is at the moment. My thoughts and attention is here.” Djokovic said the situation at the Australian Open had been “challenging emotionally” but that he was “very pleasantly surprised” by the positive reception he received from the Wimbledon crowd on Monday. The top seed overcame South Korean world number 81 Kwon Soon-woo 6-3 3-6 6-3 6-4 under the Centre Court roof as he aims win a seventh title at SW19, which would take him one behind Roger Federer’s men’s record. As tradition dictates, defending men’s singles champion Djokovic began proceedings on Centre Court as the Championships returned with full capacity crowds on Monday. The world number three is the favourite to retain the title once again in the absence of top-ranked Daniil Medvedev — banned following Wimbledon’s decision to deny entry to Russian and Belarusian players following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine - and the injured Alexander Zverev. He overcame a spirited opponent to back up that billing and set up a second-round meeting with Australian Thanasi Kokkinakis. It was 24-year-old Kwon who landed the first blow to the delight of an excitable Centre Court crowd, stunning the top seed with a break to 15 and again surrendering just a single point as he employed impressive variety to consolidate a 3-1 advantage. But Djokovic settled in, breaking back before another allowed him to serve out the opening set with a five-game streak. Undeterred, Kwon, who won his sole ATP title to date in Astana last September, responded with a break for 3-1 in the second set and impressively saw off three break points from a 0-40 deficit to hold in the following game on his way to levelling the contest. Encouraged by the crowd as he continued to apply pressure in the third, the South Korean was unable to clinch a breakpoint in the fifth game — allowing Djokovic to strike late on and retake the lead. They proved crucial moments, as Djokovic, having saved a break point in the opening game, eventually asserted himself in the fourth set. A single break proved enough for him to come through this tricky first-round encounter, extending his victory streak at Wimbledon to 22 matches. It also means Djokovic becomes the first player, man or woman, to record 80 singles wins at all four Grand Slam tournaments.