IEBC officials were on Saturday in for a big surprise after an aspirant walked in dressed in sackcloth. The 24-year-old, Tonny Wamocha Wekesi, from Saboti Constituency was seeking IEBC clearance to contest in the Matisi ward representative race. Wekesi, an IT expert, was ushered into the Saboti constituency hall at the national museums of Kenya in Kitale for clearance. "I’m putting on this sackcloth to communicate to Matisi residents of what kind of leadership I will offer them if elected on the 9  August. They are my source of inspiration, I will forever remain indebted to them," he said. Pressed by the Star to explain if he was a member of a prominent sect whose followers put on sackcloth, Wekesi said it was just a sign of humility and dedication to the people of Matisi ward who had done a lot for him. The youthful candidate was among 13 candidates, including two women, who were lined up for clearance by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission On Saturday. The incumbent, Member of County Assembly Obed Mwale Mahanga was the fifth person to be cleared by Constituenct  IEBC Returning Officer Kennedy Komolkatro. Wekesi said his donning of the sackcloth was not a meaningless show but a sign of a changed heart that would invoke God’s mercies to residents who had suffered for 10 years. He urged the electorate to consider voting for him as their ward representative, promising to put up mechanisms of empowerment for all. He said if elected, he will ensure every household is connected with tap water apart from ensuring that health facilities in the whole ward are well equipped to level four hospitals. On education, Wekesi said he will use participatory leadership skills to enable all vulnerable learners to access quality education. In the neighbouring Saboti ward, Leonard Moss who was cleared to contest as an independent candidate said he would prioritize the issuance of land titles if elected. He submitted his nomination papers to Saboti Constituency IEBC returning officer Kennedy Komolkatrou who cleared him after a one-hour session. UDA candidate Stephen Matui alias Nyayo also presented his nomination papers at the Kitale National Museums of Kenya. Matui promised to be part of the most vibrant debaters and represent his people well. "...Without kneeling on toes of the next governor so that funds trickle down to the wards," he said. Bonface Wanyonyi Cheloti of the Democratic Action Party of Kenya was also cleared to vie for the seat, promising to usher in a new phase of political leadership that would prioritize tarmacking of the roads. Others that were given a clean bill of health to succeed David Kipkorir Kapoloman are Edward Musombi Munabi (Ford Kenya), Wycliffe Masengeli (Independent), Richard Sululu ( ANC) and Moses Khaoya ( Jubilee).