Kenya Kwanza leader William Ruto on Sunday promised free land to Jesus Winners Ministry based at Roysambu, Nairobi, if elected president in August 9, polls. Speaking during a church service, Ruto said under his leadership, church and religion will be respected. Ruto also pledged to iron out land issues affecting the church urging them not to worry much about it. "As that is not enough, we will find a government land and give it to you for free. You will let us know the size you need," he said. "We are committed to ensuring that Kenya not only becomes a God-fearing nation but also that the government supports the church " he added. Ruto'spledge came on the very day President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a land title deed to Akorino church worth Sh100 million. He thanked the presiding Bishop Edward Mwai and the congregation for their spiritual support. "I remember back in 2011, I came here with my friend President Uhuru Kenyatta, you prayed for us. We were going through a lot, we even had a case in Hague. But through your faith, God did us miracles," he said. He urged them to make their decisions in accordance with God's will for Kenya. The UDA presidential candidate reiterated his 'Bottom Up' agenda saying he borrowed it from the Biblical verse, Psalm 113:7-8. "He (God) raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap, he seats them with princes, with the princes of his people." The DP pledged to ensure all churches are given the space to worship freely. "There are many threats. We are supposed to have a rally at Jacaranda later but they removed our podium at situated police around the grounds. But because we came here, God intervened," he added. Ruto exuded confidence in winning the August 9, general elections adding that the people who are disrespecting and mocking him will not prevail. He promised to build a unified country and promised to work with the electorates if he wins. "We will build a Kenya that is not divided by tribal matters or disrespect among citizens. We will be proud to be Kenyan citizens because we will follow through with God's will," he added.