The English Football League is to become closely involved in the sale of Derby County in order to secure their future in the league. Businessman Chris Kirchner failed to meet Friday’s deadline to buy the club, further frustrating the EFL. Conditions suspending Derby’s expulsion from the league, imposed when they went into administration, have been changed. The EFL now wants to be informed of all discussions between administrators Quantuma and potential bidders. In a statement, the league said it was “increasingly concerned” the delays presented “a real risk to the integrity of next season’s competition”, with the EFL fixtures being released in less than a fortnight. EFL chief executive Trevor Birch said Derby had been given enough time to complete the sale, but “further urgent proactive action” was now needed to “secure the club’s future as a continuing member of the EFL”. “Following this latest setback for the club and its fans, it is vitally important that a sale of the club is concluded at the earliest opportunity and we want to ensure that this objective is achieved,” he said. The Rams have been in administration since September 2021, when the initial Notice of Withdrawal was issued by the EFL. The league has now issued changes to this notice, “given the lack of progress by the [club’s] administrators to finalise a transaction”. Kirchner was named as preferred bidder by Quantuma on 6 April. They reached a sale and purchase agreement with him on 16 May and extended a period of exclusivity on two occasions. Despite providing proof of funding to the EFL and passing the governing body’s owners and directors’ test, Texas-based Kirchner has not transferred the funds that would allow the deal to be completed. Derby, who were relegated from the Championship last season, have just five first-team players left on their books for the 2022-23 League One campaign. Despite the transfer window opening on Friday, the club is unable to sign players, nor able to offer fresh deals to those whose contracts are about to expire.