A human rights lobby has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to keep his word by jailing public officials engaging in corruption. Center for Restoration of Human Rights and Democracy executive director Kefa Were and former URP official Eliud Tormoi said corruption has tainted Kenyatta’s administration. “The President promised long time ago  thieves will be taken to prison. Nothing has happened with two to three months for him to exit office. Act now and save Kenyans," Were said. He accused public officials in Trans Nzoia of openly running down the county. "A thief is a thief no matter his or her political inclination. They must be punished and also made to return all monies stolen from  public coffers," he said. He said President Kenyatta, who will be retiring from active politics after August 9, will only be remembered fondly for fighting corruption. "Without jailing the corrupt and forcing them return what they stole, any development will not make Kenyans remember President Kenyatta as he retires," Were said. The President once confirmed Sh2 billion is stolen daily. If this money is put to prudent use, there will will be no need to borrow, he said. Tormoi asked the President not to spare anyone, even his friends. He said theft of public resources drives away potential investors who feel their investments would go to the dogs. "All leaders from top to bottom who have contributed to pilferage of taxpayers' money should have been put in jail as early as yesterday. Urgently do something, Mr President," Tormoi said. He is running for the Kwanza ward seat in Trans Nzoia. He urged Kenyans not to vote for corrupt people using their ill-gotten gains to campaign. He said it was a pity seeing politicians bribing the electorate. "We can team up together and change this perception that one be given money to vote. We have contributed to bad leadership by accepting tokenism," Tormoi said. He said vote buying will end up breaking the link between those declared winners and lead to poor services. Tormoi said elected leaders fail to deliver on their election pledges because they are busy compensating themselves for their expenses in the past election. "Don’t accept the Sh50 or Sh100 shillings candidates are giving you. This is money for bursaries of your children, say no to thieves," he said. He said outgoing leaders were using funds meant for bursaries on their campaigns. He asked the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate and recover all stolen money. (Edited by V. Graham)