Elders in Uasin Gishu have rejected a recent report by the NCIC listing the county as one of those likely to experience violence during the August 9 polls. Other counties listed in the report include Kisumu, Nakuru, Nairobi and Mombasa. More than 300 elders from all communities in Uasin Gishu on Sunday met in Eldoret and accused the National Cohesion and Integration Commission of releasing a "baseless" report that lacked facts. The elders, led by David Nyambane, said unlike in the past, they are sure there will be no incidents of chaos or violence in the region during this year's election. He said they have been partnering with the county leadership on peace building and coexistence among communities in the region. “Such reports are very damaging to the reputation of our county and the NCIC should retract its frequent labelling of our region as a hotspot county,” Nyambane said. “We have our own son from this county seeking the presidency. We are peace-loving Kenyans and we will soon prove wrong those ruining the reputation of our county.” Mzee Edwin Chepsiror, representing Myot council of elders, and John Kamau representing the Agikuyu community, urged the NCIC to review their position on classifying the county as a violence hotspot. Chepsiror said elders have been meeting frequently to discuss various issues in the region and at no time did the matter of insecurity in the county arise “As elders, we have very well laid networks in all subcounties. We work with all other government and private sector institutions, but there has been no concern about possible violence during the elections period,” he said. The elders said the NCIC did not talk to any of them before releasing the report. They said NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia should visit the region and discuss with them along with other groups on peace issues instead of releasing reports based on what they termed "hearsay". Chepsiror said they were ready to work with all leaders and institutions to strengthen peace and unity before, during and after the general elections. Chepsiror and Nyambane said they will continue to meet with candidates cleared by the IEBC to urge them to hold peaceful campaign peacefully. Edited by A.N