After pulling out of this week's Africa Senior Athletics Championships in Reduit, Mauritius, Alice Aprot and Abraham Kibiwott have turned their focus on next month's World Championships in Oregon, USA and Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England. Aprot, a former Africa Games 10,000m champion, and Kibiwott, the Commonwealth Games 3,000m steeplechase bronze medallist were ruled out of the continental show due to injuries. Aprot and Biwott, who picked hip and back injuries respectively are disappointed following their exits from Team Kenya ahead of Africa show starting tomorrow through to Sunday at the Cote d’Or Sports Complex. The former Africa 10,000m champion was to chase her second continental title after winning in 2016. “This a blow for me. I was well prepared to compete and win the second title at the championships but that is now a gone case.  I am so disappointed,” said Aprot. The Prison warder, who is based at the Kericho Main Women's Prison,  said she picked the injury during one of her training sessions last week. " I opted not to fight on because I was going to make the situation worse considering I am returning from another injury and sabbatical leave," she noted. However, her journey is not over as she plans to return to action ahead of Athletics Kenya (AK) national trials for World Championships in Oregon and Commonwealth Games (Birmingham). “I am praying and hoping that I will regain my fitness ahead of the national trials. I have been fit but this monster returned to haunt me again at the wrong time,” said the former Africa Games 5,000m silver medallist. Aprot is currently scratching her head hard as she plots how to make a comeback to the World Championships having finished fourth in 2017 in London. “I was very ready to bring gold from the Africa Championships. My focus now is on the World and Commonwealth Games. I had good plans but God had his own plans,” she said. Kibiwott, whose place has been filled by former Olympic Games 3,000m steeplechase champion Conselus Kipruto, who finished 4th at the Rabat Diamond League on Sunday evening, said he has set his focus to compete in either World Championships or Commonwealth Games. Athletics Kenya announced that the Commonwealth Games and World Championships trials will be held between June 24th and June 25th, 2022 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Team Kenya Left last night for the Africa Senior Athletics championships in Reduit, Mauritius.