The supremacy battle between Kenya Kwanza Alliance and Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition is playing out in Kwale county. Deputy President William Ruto enjoys the support of Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, his deputy Fatma Achani and four MPs Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Feisal Bader (Msambweni), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), and Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga-Lunga). The ODM leader Raila Odinga has the backing of Senator Issa Boy and Kwale Woman Representative Zulekha Hassan. Since 2007, Kwale has been considered an ODM stronghold, but its support base has been dwindling over the years. Mvurya, who is serving his last term, was first elected on an ODM ticket in 2013 before decamping to Jubilee in 2017 and now UDA. He has been named the Kenya Kwanza campaign coordinator for the Coast region. Mvurya has fronted his deputy Achani to succeed him while ODM party nominated former Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga as their flagbearer for the governor seat. Speaking on Sunday after the clearance of Achani by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Mvurya said ODM is dead in Kwale. “ODM is breathing its last. Let no one tell you that Kwale is an ODM stronghold, as a matter of fact, ODM is dead in the region,” he said. Mvurya said UDA has gained more support from residents in the past few months and it is going to clinch all elective seats in the region. “We have enough political soldiers to marshal support for our party in the region,” he said. Achani, who is the only woman in the governor race said she has the support of residents who believe in the ‘bottom-up’ economic model. However, Boga still expressed confidence that ODM is still a political force in Kwale and it will continue to dominate. Boga said contrary to what their opponents are saying, ODM will carry the day in Kwale. He said Azimio’s agenda has been accepted by many who support Raila’s presidency. He said their competitors should brace for a major political battle in the August 9 general election. Kwale ODM organising secretary James Nyakiti said the party is still strong to withstand and stop the Kenya Kwanza's influence. "This is Raila's bedroom and he has the backing of many residents who trust his agendas and believe in change," he said. The supremacy battle also played out during the clearance of Achani and Boga. The two deployed branded vehicles and mobilised thousands of supporters to escort them for the IEBC clearance. Achani and Boga are also trying to outshine their competitors with numerous billboards in Ukunda town. Apart from Achani and Boga four more gubernatorial candidates have been cleared for the Kwale race They include county assembly speaker Sammy Ruwa (independent), Lung'anzi Chai Mangale (PAA),  James Gereza Dena (Kanu)) and Chirau Ali Mwakwere (Wiper).  (Edited  by Tabnacha O)