ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has accused President Uhuru of plotting to make it difficult for Deputy President William Ruto to run the government if he wins elections. Mudavadi claimed Uhuru was employing the “scorched earth policy” as he prepares to leave office. Scorched earth policy is a military strategy that aims to destroy anything that might be useful to the enemy. Any assets that could be used by the enemy may be targeted, which usually includes weapons, transport vehicles, communication sites, and industrial resources. “President Uhuru Kenyatta is employing the scorched earth policy to set up the next government for failure. This is the game he is playing,” he said. Addressing supporters in his Vihiga backyard on Thursday, the ANC leader said Kenya Kwanza is well aware of Uhuru’s plot and is ready to deal with any situation arising. “As Kenya Kwanza we are steadfast. We have what it takes. We have experts who will help us to get the country out of the economic mess,” he added. “When they leave, they will be putting poison in the water wells so that when Kenya Kwanza takes over, we will find the country has a lot of problems to deal with.” Mudavadi added that the current administration is behaving the way the former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein did when he was leaving neighbouring Kuwait after an invasion. “When he was leaving Kuwait, Saddam was setting ablaze oil wells along his path,” he said. Some 605 to 732 oil wells were set ablaze by retreating Iraqi military forces during the Gulf War. Mudavadi added that by increasing the public debt ceiling from Sh9 trillion to Sh10 trillion, Uhuru effectively made life difficult for the next administration. “When they were borrowing, one US dollar was equivalent to 100 Kenyan shillings. Now, one US dollar is equivalent to 125 Kenyan shillings,” he said. He added that Uhuru’s administration was not keen to prioritise a bill sponsored by Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi seeking to establish the Public Debt Management Authority as an independent agency to manage Kenya’s loans. “Sakwa Bunyasi had a very good bill. He wanted to stop the government from borrowing haphazardly. In two years, Uhuru’s government did not want to prioritise the bill,” he added. He took a swipe at the government for having a penchant for loans with no tangible value to the public. "Our loan burden stands at Sh8 trillion yet Uhuru on Wednesday pushed the ceiling to Sh10 trillion after sensing the Kenya Kwanza alliance will form the next government," he said. Mudavadi took yet another swipe at Raila Odinga whom he termed "Uhuru project". He said Raila could not turn around the debt-driven mess in the country as he was past his prime. "The other day he (Raila) read his manifesto which had something to do with doing away with mitumba (second hand clothes) and could not tell doing away with that could render millions jobless a clear indication he is out of touch with his former self."