ODM Murang'a Senate candidate Pius Kinuthia has urged Azimio leaders to handle the zoning exercise carefully to ensure all dropped hopefuls remain in the coalition. Last Friday, Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition council adopted a plan that will see the outfit endorse one strong candidate among its affiliate parties for elective positions to counter sibling rivalry and ensure they win majority seats. However, on Tuesday Kinuthia said the zoning should have been done months ago before candidates invested heavily in their campaigns. Kinuthia said he started campaigning in December 2019 and has so far spent more than Sh3 million. The 32-year-old pharmacist said as he was convinced that he would be on the ballot. Being in a Jubilee zone Kinuthia is concerned that he may be edged out in favour of Jubilee candidate Kembi Gitura. “There is little possibility that Kembi would be forced to step down for me because I am in a Jubilee zone. I have been a one-man team and I am confident I would have garnered many votes,” he said. He said the promise that candidates who step down will be incorporated into the government if Azimio wins may not work because the hopefuls are too many for the positions pledged. “They said they will use opinion polls but there is a difference between being popular and being elected,” he said. Zoning, he said, may leave many candidates discontented and some may withdraw their support for the coalition out of bitterness. “I foresee a situation where candidates will defy their parties and march on to the ballot because it's only IEBC that can withdraw a candidate from the race,” he said. With each candidate having their supporters, Kinuthia said there is a possibility that the zoning may end up costing the coalition, more so Raila Odinga's presidential bid. He said if it were up to him, the all candidate would have been allowed by the jumbo coalition to face off in the polls to increase Raila's winning chances. He, however, reaffirmed his support for Azimio, saying he will follow the decision made by his party leader. “I however urge them to approach the matter with a lot of wisdom and consider the fact that candidates have invested heavily invested in their campaigns," he said. “Let them come up with a good method of solving the issue so that it is a win-win for both candidates and the coalition and those who will step down can help campaign for others." (Edited by Tabnacha O)