Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Saturday hit out at Nairobi Jubilee governorship candidate Polycarp Igathe for profiling communities for cheap political expediency. Speaking at his residence, Duale said Igathe has displayed himself as a tribal leader and he is not fit to lead the people of Nairobi which is home of 44 ethnic communities of Kenya. “The tribal bigotry shamelessly peddled in the sophisticated business arena is unfortunate and crass. It is more appalling coming from someone purporting to be learned and captain of industry," he said. "Profiling communities for cheap political expediency is the height of desperation. Nairobians are discerning and will totally reject such a poor project.” The former National Assembly majorty leader spoke when he hosted members from a number of Saccos that provide transport services to the public in the area mainly Matatu owners, drivers and touts. He said such utterances coming from a person who wants to be a leaders especially a cosmopolitan county like Nairobi were regrettable. He demanded a public apology from Igathe. He added: “The City County of Nairobi belongs to all Kenyans . It’s not a preserve of the few. Nairobians deserve a visionary leader who will restore its former glory not a tribal bigot and merchant of division,” “After the outrageous publicity stunts flopped, he has resorted to tribal card. Shame on him." Duale urged the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to investigate the remarks saying that he will personally lead a campaign against Igathe in the city. He said such profiling of communities especially during this time of electioneering period can easily plunge the country into chaos. Duale was reacting to a viral video of Igathe accusing Members of County Assembly from the Kikuyu community of being held hostage by three Somali MCAs he didn't name, whom he said are controlling the city county assembly. “Nairobi has 45 MCAs, who are kikuyu, I can tell you they are all controlled by three Somalis. that is a fact. the capture is too serious. even yesterday they were doing things that are completely illegal and illicit,” Igathe was heard saying in the video, as he addressed the Kenya Private Sector Alliance. He accused Kikuyu MCAs of having become too greedy, a trait that is unlike Kikuyu's.