Kakamega Azimio governor candidate Fernandes Barasa has condemned violence and called for peaceful campaigns. He said those seeking elective seats should conduct issue-based campaigns. Barasa spoke to journalists at Lantana Comfy hotel in Kakamega on Friday. His convoy was attacked last week and one of his vehicle’s wind screens shattered by a group of youth. “We are urging our competitors to stop misusing our youths by paying them to engage in violence. We at Azimio are selling issues and ideas, not violence. “We are not interested in violence because we know Kakamega is ready to vote for Raila Odinga as the fifth president,” Barasa said. The candidate urged IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to discipline and if possible disqualify candidates engaging in violence, including those destroying their opponents’ campaign materials. He was accompanied by his running mate and Lugari MP Ayub Savula, Azimio Senate candidate Dr Brian Lishenga and Kakamega Woman MP Elsie Muhanda. Savula said all indications are that Raila will win with a land slide, come August 9. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta should form the assumption of office committee for Raila’s swearing in. “The only thing we are worried about is the venue for the swearing in because everyone will want to be there. "We suggest that Raila be sworn in at State House and screens placed at vantage points for the public to follow proceedings,” Savula said. The legislator also condemned the violence that characterised Raila's rallies in Northern Kenya last week saying Kenyans want a peaceful election. Lishenga said his campaigns are centred on healthcare, oversight, prosperity and education. He however said some pollsters are confusing voters by publishing inaccurate opinion polls. Lishenga said Mizani pollster have been running a photograph that is not his in their polls. “I have already written to them that the picture they have been running is not mine and they should stop immediately lest we meet in court,” he said. The candidate said the pollster has also been including a none-existent name Douglas Shamalla to fuel more confusion. He said he had also written to his lawyer that Mizani was out to influence the Kakamega senatorial race. Barasa, Savula, Lishenga, Muhanda and their Kenya Kwanza Kakamega governor candidate Cleophas Malala shared a table, during Governor Wycliffe Oparanya's farewell party at Bukhungu stadium on Friday. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)