Kenyan long-distance specialist Jacob Krop has called on the youth in his native West Pokot County not to sleep on their sports talents but rather harness them to develop their local communities. The runner described himself as evidence that West Pokot is endowed with talent that can bring glory to the county if only they pursue their potential. "My message to them is to look at me and how far I have come. I have posted some good results including the latest one which was at the national trials. I'd like to urge my people to embrace sports so that more of us can make it to the international limelight," Krop said. The 2021 Adizero Road to Records 5km champion has been in a rich vein of form, the highlight of which was his first-place finish in the men's 5000m at the Kip Keino Classic in May. He followed up that performance a month later with a sensational run at the Rome Diamond League during which he was outwitted at the tape by fellow countryman, Nicholas Kimeli. Krop timed 12:46.79 to finish second in the men's 5000m as Kimeli ran away with first place.  At Saturday's trials, the two were at it again with Kimeli once again triumphing as Krop followed next. Kimeli timed 13:28.65  as Krop (13:29.20)  and Cornelius Kemboi (13:29.90) came second and third respectively. Despite the outcome, Krop said his focus was simply to make the Kenyan team for the World Championship and Commonwealth Games. "I was not so much focused on the position as well as setting a new personal best. The sole mission for today was to make the final team after which the hard work of excelling at Oregon begins. The race was definitely going to be tough because I knew everyone had prepared well that's why I am happy to have made it to the finish line," he said. The trio will be part of the Team Kenya contingent to Birmingham whereas Africa 5000m silver medalist Daniel Simiu will join Kimeli and Krop in Oregon. Speaking at the same time, Kimeli described Krop as a friend who has helped him grow in leaps and bounds. "The race was more about tactics and teamwork and not necessarily about power. I had my friend and training partner, Krop, with who I have run many races in Kenya and beyond. Now we are looking forward to going out there, working together and coming back with medals," Kimeli said. Kimeli, who clocked a world lead of 12:46.33 in Rome, said the feat has done miracles for his self-confidence going forward. 