Kisumu police have arrested a suspect allegedly involved in a series of robberies in Nairobi. Elizabeth Akinyi, alias Boss Lady, was arrested at the National Housing apartments in Kibuye on Thursday. She was in the police most wanted list. She was arrested by officers from Kondele police station accompanied by officers from Parklands police station in Nairobi. Nyanza regional police commander Karanja Muiruri said the suspect is alleged to have been stealing high-end electronic devices. He said assorted expensive TVs, computers and other devices, as well as jewellery were recovered from the suspect’s residence opposite Kibuye market in Kisumu Central. Muiruri said one complainant, Ahmed Maalim Abdullahi, has positively identified his five-inch Samsung TV valued at Sh125,000. Also recovered were a 55-inch LG Oled curved TV set, Sony PSS Play Station 5, Sony DVD player with three speakers, Sony sound bar, one piece, Sony PS4 Play Station 4 and a Samsung tablet. Police also recovered one necklace and a pair of earrings, eight wristwatches, a Deco ball on a stand, Zuku fibre home router, four pieces of buibui, Apple Ipod, Samsung Duosand one gold ring. The suspect and recovered items were given to Parklands officers for action. Meanwhile, Kisumu government employee Benson Ouma Wambia has been arrested for the alleged theft of Sh500,000. Wambia was arrested by officers from Kondele police station on Thursday. He works at the county government ICT department. He allegedly stole the money from Kelvin Okumu, 30, while he was heading to the bank. County police commander Alphonse Kimanthi said Ouma led officers to his residence at Kisumu West  where Sh151,000 was recovered. “The complainant had reported to Kondele police station that Sh500,000 was stolen from him by a person (suspect) known to him,” Kimanthi said. Police also recovered six original title deeds of different persons, assorted national identity cards, a chief’s stamp for South West location and 116assorted passport photos. They also recovered a 55-inch TCL Smart Android, suspected to have been bought with the proceeds of crime. Kimanthi said the suspect is detained at the station awaiting to be arraigned. (Edited by V. Graham)