With only 41 days remaining to the August 9 general election, Homa Bay MCAs are embroiled in wrangles pitting them against the county assembly clerk. The squabbles have paralysed operations of the assembly, creating uncertainty on when it will undertake its two crucial duties namely approving the County budget and Finance Bill. The situation made the county assembly clerk Faith Apuko close the assembly indefinitely on Monday over what she termed as insecurity in the House. The county assembly premises on Tuesday remained shut under the tight security of police as MCAs who wanted access were denied entry. Majority Leader Oscar Abote called a press conference and accused Apuko of failing to remit their statutory deductions. In their statement read by the Kendu Bay MCA Morris Ogwang, the MCAs accused Apuko of failing to remit their Local Authority Pension Fund (Lapfund) worth Sh30.5 million for the last five months. Ogwang argued that they have not been paid their allowances worth Sh25 million. “NHIF deductions worth over Sh622,000 and another Sh887,000 for workers have not been remitted. These matters must be addressed urgently because we cannot be treated on medical insurance if we are sick,” Ogwang’ said. MCAs Walter Muok (Kanyadoto), Peter Kaula (Wang’chieng) and Edwin Kakach accused Apuko of planning to deny them funds as the tenure of the current assembly comes to an end in August. They vowed never to leave behind their money. “What we are foreseeing is a plan to frustrate MCAs by denying us the money we deserve from the county assembly,” Muok said. They said their intension is to remove Apuko from the office and replace her with one of the current county assembly official called Vivian Polo. “She should not be the clerk of this assembly because she has financial issues,” Kaula said. However, Apuko distanced herself from the MCAs’ allegations of financial misappropriation. Apuko gave an example of the Sh30.5 million allegation for Lapfund which she said is a hoax. “Lapfund is a voluntary contribution by MCAs and not all of them contribute. Those who contributed had taken their money hence the allegation is false,” Apuko said. Apuko argued that she had a clear record of how her office remits the statutory deductions and none of them is pending. Apuko was ousted by the MCAs from the office last week but she acquired a court order to allow her to continue. But she accused the MCAs of planning to oust her irregularly again. She complained of being assaulted in her office on Monday. “I have recorded a statement at Homa Bay Police Station and filled a P3 form.  Actually, my life is in danger because I have received threatening calls over this matter,” Apuko said. She accused the MCAs of coercing her to make irregular payments. “There was a time they were forcing me to divert Sh40 million meant for salaries to MCAs’ allowances. I reported the matter to the DCI on June 13 this year,” Apuko said.