With only 60 days remaining to the general elections, the Azimio La Umoja coalition has plans to conduct aggressive grassroots campaigns in a bid to ensure its candidate Raila Odinga wins without a run-off. Murang’a woman representative Sabina Chege has said the coalition is currently training teams that will conduct the campaigns in the constituencies. Chege who is a member of Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition council said their campaigns will be targeting specific groups in the villages. “We will come with humility to ask Kenyans to walk with us. We will meet targeted groups and conduct roadshows. We have a good plan,” she said. Constituency coordinators will be in charge of the campaigns and will only receive help from the county and national teams. Chege revealed that the campaigns will start off next week, assuring Kenyans that they will see them more in their localities. Chege said this while meeting opinion leaders from her rural village Kinyona in Kigumo constituency, Murang’a, who received civic education on women's leadership and good governance from Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa). “We only have a few days remaining though a day in politics is a long time. That is why I am here today. Parliament will be dissolved on June 16 and afterward, we will be free to do campaigns and go after every vote available,” she said. Chege expressed confidence that Raila’s popularity is on the rise especially after picking Martha Karua as his deputy and getting Kalonzo Musyoka on the team. She also attributed the rise in Raila’s support base to the fact that the Kenya Kwanza alliance started its campaigns too early and rose too high saying that is now on a downward trend. She appealed to Kenyans to cast their votes with care and shun any leader who attempts to divide them along tribal lines. She praised Azimio La Umoja coalition as an outfit that aims at uniting Kenyans saying it encompasses all communities. “With Azimio La Umoja, the cake will be put on the table and our farmers will get minimum guaranteed returns for their produce. Farm inputs will be subsidized and brought closer to them”. “We will empower the youths and help them to access digital economic hubs where they can find well-paying jobs.  We will undo all the lies our people have been fed,” she added. She said Raila’s administration will ensure ongoing projects are completed and the reforms in the agriculture sector continued saying the current Agriculture Cabinet Secretary will remain in charge of the docket. According to her, Kenyans should vote for Raila knowing they are voting for good leadership and management of public resources. When the coffee sector collapsed and tea prices dwindled, Chege divulged that there is a generation in the Mt. Kenya region that missed out on good education as parents could not afford fees. It is this generation, she said, that has been labeled ‘hustlers’ and hoodwinked by the Kenya Kwanza team, noting that if the agriculture sector is well managed, Kenyans will be sufficiently empowered. Chege further sought to clarify Raila’s controversial sentiments on the ‘Mitumba’ sector saying it will not be closed down as it is the lifeline of many. Instead, the mitumba will be phased out in a process that will not be abrupt, she said, saying locally produced clothes should also be good quality and affordable. “I know even the traders themselves have the desire to promote local products that would promote local industries. If we could have many cotton farmers and be able to make our own fabric, they would be given the priority to sell the clothes,” she said.