Trail Blazers coach Geoffrey Omondi believes their 3-1 win against Kenya Defence Forces in the Kenya Volleyball Federation men’s league puts them in a pole position for the playoffs. The newbies scalped KDF in sets of 26-24, 21-25, 25-19 and 25-22. A tactical change in the second set made the Ruaraka-based side peerless en route to bagging maximum points. However, they cannot rest on their laurels, according to Omondi, who targets nine points in their three matches against Vihiga, General Service Unit and Western Prisons. “We are one foot into the playoffs but it’s too early to celebrate. We want to get the job done by winning our remaining matches,” Omondi, a former national women’s coach highlighted. “We found the going tough at the beginning with our blocks. We were very open and they capitalised on that but we studied their style of play and sealed all the loopholes. Front court defence is still wanting while we must be tougher with our services,” he added. His opposite number, Elisha Aliwa, said a concentration lapse was their main undoing with their playoff hopes dashed. “This was a crucial match for the team but, unfortunately, it didn’t work out as planned. We dropped our levels and we struggled to contain our opponents, who also exploited our weaknesses in the backcourt and blocks,” a visibly irked Aliwa remarked. “We have been to the playoffs for a long time but it would be an underachievement if we miss out this season because our fate is out of our hands. We now have to depend on the results of other teams to stand a chance of dining with the big boys in the playoffs.” Aliwa challenged the senior players to up their game. He said such experiences will be vital for the junior players, who are still learning the ropes in the game. “The young players have proved equal to the task even though they still have along way to go to become accomplished athletes. Some of my regular players underachieved today. We are back to the drawing board and we will bounce back stronger in the next assignment,” he added. Elsewhere, Equity Bank slayed Prisons Nyanza 3-0 (25-20, 25-15, 25-16) in a one-sided affair, putting the bankers in a strong position for a top-four finish. Equity coach Sammy Kirongo wants his players to focus on Saturday’s all-important match against Prisons Kenya whereby a win will guarantee them a slot in the playoffs. “The players are psyched up for the Prisons do-or-die clash. We don’t want to depend on the results of other teams, we want to win our matches,” said Kirongo. In other matches, GSU walloped Administration Police in straight sets of 25-17, 25-23 and 25-19. KPA face off GSU on Saturday in the top-of-the-table clash billed match of the season.