Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association (KSSHA) chairman and principal of Machakos School Indimuli Kahi has lauded Mater Miseridiae Hospital for its annual Heart Run project in the country. Kahi said the initiative has for years helped raise funds among other resources to treat hundreds of children with heart-related diseases, thereby saving lots of lives. He said the hospital through the noble initiative had saved lives of children who later grow into great personalities. "As a school, we are honoured to host this important event this year. I want to appreciate Mater Hospital for what they have continued to do over the years through this run and supporting children who have had ailments," Kahi said. "This is a very noble course for our nation. Who knows what a person this child will become in the future? How important this child will be to this great nation, " Kahi said. "Thank you Mater for this idea. I thank you all for participating, and raising funds for this noble course," he said. Mater Hospital member of Governing Council David Kabiru said as a hospital, they were grateful to see a large turnout for this year's Heart Run event. Kahi spoke during the national Mater Hospital Heart Run event, Lower Eastern region, flagged off at Machakos School on Saturday. Several primary and secondary schools alongside cooperate and other institutions from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui County attended the event. Over 5,000 pupils and students participated in the excise. They were accompanied by their teachers and some of the parents from the region whose children had been saved from heart diseases by the private hospital. The schools included Tala Girls, Mumbuni Girls, Mumbuni Boys, Misyiani Girls, Machakos High, SA Kinyuve Girls, Matungulu Girls, Premese Schools, Kyanguli secondary, Masii Girls, St. Jude Muthetheni, Makueni and Mbooni Girls. "On behalf of Mater Hospital, I thank all of you for making the hospital's 2022 Run edition successful. This year's theme is 'Touch a child's heart'," Kabiru said. Kabiru said the Sister of Mercy's philosophy, mission and vision was to try and address the health issues of marginalized in the society. He said they have been conducting the event for 20 years now. "Mater has always united us together. With your support, commitment and sacrifice to this course, over 4, 000 children from disadvantaged backgrounds have benefited in form of health procedures and tens of thousands screened for heart diseases," Kabiru said. He said the benefits of the run couldn't be quantified as beneficiaries underwent their journeys to wellness. Kabiru said the hospital was committed to impacting the lives of children with heart illnesses. "This we cannot achieve alone, that's why we ask for your continued support, partnership and collaboration in this journey," Kabiru said. "With each step, we take, remember you are touching a child's heart," he added. Mary Ndathu said she gave birth to a child with a heart problem and went to a hospital in Matuu, Machakos County where he never got assistance. Ndathu later sought medical services at Machakos Level 5 Hospital where she was told her child had a heart ailment. She was referred to Mater Hospital where the child was successfully treated. "My child was healed, she is now four years and five months old. I am here to support the Matter Hospital Heart Run, may God keep blessing the hospital," She said. Esther Mbuuni said her daughter Praise Mukele had a hole in her heart. Surgery was successfully done on her by Mater Hospital on April 29, 2019.