Two aspirants for the Mwingi Central MP seat risk being barred by IEBC from contesting in this year's election and even 2027 if their camps continue engaging in violence. Mwingi Central IEBC returning officer, James Mutua Mbai, has expressed concern that the aspirants appear not to conform to the electoral code of conduct. Mbai said since the aspirants are acting in violation of the code, he will not hesitate with reasons and available evidence to recommend the revocation of their registration as candidates for election. “It is not just rescinding the registration but also prescribing the necessary punishment, including being banned from the race in 2022 and 2027,” Mbai said. He was addressing journalists at the Mwingi Hall registration centre on Saturday. Mbai was alluding to recent incidents of violent clashes between supporters of Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi and those of Lydia Mutambu, who is seeking to dethrone him. A number of people were left nursing injuries and motor vehicles and motorbikes  mainly belonging to supporters of Mulyungi were destroyed during the skirmishes. The IEBC official said the clash between the two rival camps took place on Monday last week in the outskirts of Mwingi town; the day he cleared both Mulyungi and Mutambu to vie in the upcoming polls. “If there is proven culpability of any party indulging in violence or anything to mar the elections we will apply the electoral laws within which there is the electoral code of conduct is embedded," he said. "They have committed to abide by it until the winner is sworn into office.” During a pre-registration consultative meeting of county level aspirants in Kitui town recently that was called by returning officer Macharia Gichichi, the county police commander Leah Kithei raised concern over political violence in Mwingi Central. Both Kithei and the Kitui county commissioner Mbogoi Rioba warned that political violence would not be condoned. That was before last Monday incident that was marked by shoot-outs as the Mutambu-Mulyungi supporters clashed in the outskirts of Mwingi town.  (edited by Amol Awuor)