More than 1,500 religious leaders have thrown their weight behind Garissa Governor Ali Korane's re-election bid. The clerics are not only influential but also command respected in the community. The candidate who gets their support has an edge over his competitors. The religious leaders drawn from six subcounties gathered at Korane’s residence on Wednesday and promised to support his candidature and ensure he clinches the seat. Sheikh Mohamed Salat Hire said Korane has demonstrated quality leadership and has been a good servant to the people of Garissa, things he said necessitated their support. “It is an open secret that the governor has taken a great role in supporting Islamic institutions and empowered religious leaders. He has walked with us throughout and has been there when we needed him,” he said. Hire said the governor's creation of the directorate of religious affairs has had a positive impact to the Muslim community. The leaders also lauded the governor for his achievements in infrastructural development and promoting cohesion and peaceful co-existence. Sheikh Isaack Mohamed said having a leader who is at the forefront in preaching and promoting peace and cohesion in the cosmopolitan county is important and Korane has demonstrated that. “Peace and cohesion is very paramount in our society. Without it, we will always have problems. We want to thank you for ensuring that our communities co-exist peacefully,” he said. Korane welcomed the religious leaders endorsement saying he will continue working closely with them in promoting religious affairs as well as preach peace. “I don’t take your support for granted. I am deeply humbled knowing very well the position you hold in society. You are respected individuals whose word is always taken with a lot of seriousness. "The fact that you have decided to throw your weight behind me shows you have faith in my leadership,” he said. The county boss said empowering religious leaders and institutions remains an integral part of the society in provision of knowledge and peace building. He promised to expand the religious affairs directorate into a fully fledged department. Korane urged religious leaders to use their venerated ties with the public to campaign for Azimio La Umoja. He said the flagbearer, Raila Odinga is the best candidate who will take good care of the Muslim interests. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)