The IEBC disputes and Resolution committee has dismissed a letter from the Commission For University Education rescinding recognition of Senator Johnson Sakaja's degree. IEBC also expunged from its record the letter attached from CUE. The dismissal now means it is unlikely to be used as evidence in the ongoing case. The case challenging Sakaja's degree was still ongoing by the time of going to the press. Three out of four filed against Sakaja have been thrown out by the IEBC. The petition being heard is one filed by Dennis Wahome Kaguu. CUE said Sakaja's degree from TeamS University in Uganda is no longer recognized. The commission cited numerous complaints challenging its validity. A letter from the Commission dated June 14, 2022, said it has received material information about the authenticity of the Bachelor of Science in Management degree. The commission said the degree will further be investigated to ascertain its validity. “Consequently, in accordance with the CUE recognition procedures, we hereby revoke the recognition of your degree from the aforementioned university,” CUE chairman Chacha Nyaigoti Chacha said. The commission had on June 6 written to the senator confirming the recognition of the certificate. Sakaja has already moved to the High Court seeking to quash the decision by the CUE to revoke the recognition of his University degree. In court papers, Sakaja argued that the revocation of his Team University degree was done unfairly. The petition has been filed at Milimani Law Courts. Sakaja wants the revocation nullified and prohibitory order stopping IEBC from removing his name from the list of the cleared gubernatorial candidates issued He argued that the decision by CUE is illegal, biased and amounts to an unfair administration action anchored on mischief. Through his lawyer Elias Mutuma, he also claimed the revocation is a crafty political agenda whose principal objective is to eliminate him from the governor race. "Sakaja is aggrieved by the decision of CUE because the said decision was unfairly and discriminately against him and in favour of his political rivals," court papers read in part. "The decision was unjustly arrived at being on political and unfair grounds. Sakaja was not accorded a fair hearing nor have any substantial reasons been provided as to the decision therein made."