Cabinet Secretaries and Governors on Tuesday gave a key forum chaired by Deputy President William Ruto a wide berth revealing the deteriorating relationship between the DP and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Not a single CS attended the 17 Ordinary Session of the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council (IBEC) chaired by the DP at his Karen official residence. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, an ally of the DP, was the only county chief who attended the bi-annual meeting. Nanok is the chairman of the DP’s presidential campaigns. Other senior government officials who attended the meeting were Devolution PS  Julius Korir and Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang’o. The 17th Ordinary Session of the IBEC is meant to discuss strategies to increase the counties’ Own Source Revenue which has been dwindling in the recent past. “Own Source Revenue is a sleeping giant that can unlock the economic potential and growth of counties,” DP Ruto tweeted after the meeting. “We endorse the partnership between the Office of the Controller of Budget and the United Nations Capital Development Fund that will enhance the generation of own revenues, thereby help tackle the problem of pending bills,” he added. The Council of Governors Chairman and Embu Governor Martin Wambora, a constituent member of the IBEC led a host of governors in skipping the meeting. Governor Wambora is also DP Ruto’s ally in Kenya Kwanza Alliance. COG’s Finance committee chairman Nderitu Muriithi (Laikipia) also skipped the event. Others who skipped the event included Auditor General Nancy Gathungu and Judiciary chief registrar Anne Amadi. CSS Ukur Yatani, James Macharia (Transport), George Magoha (Education), Peter Munya (Agriculture), and Eugene Wamalwa (Ag Devolution) were expected to attend but did not show up. Yatani, a permanent member of the council due to his Treasury CS position, is out of the country. In his social media post, Ruto, however, indicated that representatives from the Ministry of Treasury, Devolution and County Executive Committee members attended the meeting. This was the 17th ordinary session of the council that meets twice a year and is chaired by the DP. In his absence, the Treasury CS assumes its leadership. CSs Yatani, Munya and Wamalwa are key allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who have been critical of the DP and leading figures of Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya presidential candidate Raila Odinga. The chairperson decides when the council meets, and its agenda, in consultation with other committee members. Those elected to the committee serve for a term of two years and can be re-elected for an additional term. The council provides a forum for consultation and cooperation between the national government and county governments on budget documents, among other economic issues. The council comprises the Deputy President, Treasury and Devolution CSs, and representatives from the Parliamentary Service Commission and Judicial Service Commission. Others are the Council of Governor’s chair, Commission on Revenue Allocation chair and County Executive Committee members for Finance from all counties.