More than 70 Kwale fishermen have been trained in the conservation and sustainable use of sea resources. The fishers were trained by World Wide Fund For Nature, Kenya Wildlife Service and the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute. The training is part of the biodiversity and protected areas management programme geared towards reinforcing the governance of protected areas surrounding communities in Eastern and Southern Africa. In Kwale, the programme was launched last year and is being implemented at Kisite Mpunguti and community-managed areas along the Shimoni- Vanga shores in the Lunga-Lunga sub-county. According to World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) research scientist and conservative officer Hasheem Omar, the fishers were trained in the scientific skills of marine life monitoring and protection. "We have taught them the expertise of accessing the marine protected areas and enhanced knowledge on coral reef conservation and record-keeping of the marine life population at sea," he said. The fishermen were trained on how to do deep-sea diving, data capturing on the species of fish, the status of seagrass and coral reefs. The training brought together fishermen from the seven Beach Management Units. They included Shimoni, Wasini, Mkwiro, Majoreni, Jimbo and Vanga. At least 10 fishermen were selected from each BMU to train colleagues. Omar said that earlier, residents had no proficiency in marine ecosystems and the dangers brought by poor fishing methods and harmful human activities. He said with the training, the fishermen can now conduct assessments and, with the help of state agencies, conserve the destroyed fishing zones to boost fish production. "The idea is to empower them to understand the importance of conservation and the responsibility of protecting marine life and how they can benefit," he said. Omar said already, some residents are benefiting from the Kisite Mpunguti protected area in Wasini. The officer said some people have established businesses along the conserved zones, reaping profits as tourists visit to explore the protected areas. He said the training will help local fishermen diversify ideas on various income-generating opportunities through the marine life conservancy. Kisite Mpunguti warden in charge KWS officer Paul Wambi said they have established multiple mechanisms to improve the management of the marine protected areas and the community's livelihood. "We are teaching them to do sustainable fishing and conserving the ecosystem for better coexistence," he said. He said fishermen are advised on using suitable fishing gear and methods to avoid endangering the sea creatures. The officer said the fishermen learn about the behaviour of marine life and how to improve productivity by protecting their habitats. Wambi said the programme is part of the government's efforts in ensuring food security and job creation through the favourable management of the protected marine areas. KMFRI research scientist Juliet Karisa said they are trying to break down the sophisticated scientifically research and conservation methodologies to the simplest form for the local communities to comprehend. "We are looking at the fish population and the capacity in which the seagrass and coral reef can support sustainable fishing and intervention methods to apply," she said. Shimoni BMU chairman Rishadi Iki Hamisi welcomed the programme adding that it will boost fishing production. He said they have learnt the importance of doing clean fishing without interfering with the ecosystem, unlike before when they engaged in destructive fishing techniques. 