Buccaneers captain Winston Chekai believes the team have what it takes to win their two Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) league matches at Nyayo Stadium this weekend. Chekai said he is confident that the Thika-based side, who have one win and two losses, will be back to winning ways starting on Saturday. “We are prepared. We have corrected the defensive lapses that cost us in our last two games,” Chekai said. “Our defence is solid but our attack has been wanting. We have incorporated new systems of play that will see all players get involved in the attack.” He went on: “We will use the wing players as well as our pivot in the hunt for goals. These two areas were our undoing in our two losses.” Buccaneers suffered a heartbreaking 20-19 loss to Black Mamba last week to add to the defeat they suffered in the hands of champions National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). Buccaneers welcome  Makueni Bees on Saturday and meet last year’s runners-up, Strathmore University on Sunday. In other matches, Strathmore University, who humiliated Young City 45-25, tackle GSU in what looks like a tight encounter. Black Mamba have a date with Nairobi City Council (NCC) as Thika, who blanked Young City 43-10, come face-to-face against reigning champions NCPB. Reigning women’s champions Water Queens, 53-9 winners over NCC last weekend, meet New Hope. The latter will have to be at their best to stop the damaging Brenda Arivida, Brenda Musambai and Gladys Chilo. NCC then play Amazon, who struggled all the way before getting the better of New Hope in a 21-16 victory. On Sunday, GSU, who had to use all the experience in the book to defeat Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (Jkuat) 27-21, play Young City. NCC face Technical University of Kenya (Tuk) as Ulinzi, who squeezed a narrow 34-33 win over Tuk, tackle Thika — led by Chris Ongera and Brian Mutunga. Martin Nguli and Sydney Omondi will lead Black Mamba against Jkuat as unbeaten Nairobi Water return to square it out with Amazon.