Lari MP Jonah Mburu has asked constituents not to castigate the government over the rising food and petroleum prices. He said the prices are as a result of increased taxes globally. The legislator spoke on Monday at Kirenga assistant county commissioner’s office where he distributed relief food to more than 2,000 residents. He was accompanied by senior assistant county commissioner Karanja Kimata, assistant county commissioner Evelyne Moraa, chiefs and assistant chiefs. Mburu said the world suffered from the waves of Covid-19 disease for three years, impacting negatively on the economy. He said as it tries to recover, the war between Ukraine and Russia has also impacted countries, which import wheat flour and petroleum products including Kenya. The law maker urged people not to falsely accuse President Uhuru Kenyatta of being behind the rising cost of living, as he too is affected. “You cannot accuse the President or the government. This is something global and Kenya has been affected badly,” he said. A resident, Alice Nyambura, said a lot of people sleep hungry while others have only one meal due to lack of money. “Casual jobs pay Sh300 a day, yet one needs to buy maize flour and other items. The job, however, is not available every day. Can you imagine that scenario?” she said. Kimata urged residents to remain peaceful during the electioneering period. “We are watching out for anyone breaking any law. We want peace so that people can continue coexisting, since we shall need each other even after election,” he said. Mburu who is defending his for seat on a Jubilee ticket asked residents to support him for another term saying they should reject issues of electing an MP for only one term. “You cannot realise development with a one-term MP. Chances of a second-term MP being elected a chairman of a parliamentary committee are higher than those of a first-term MP. “When you change an MP, before they learn how government works and how to lobby for development, time is gone and we start asking them questions one cannot answer,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)