Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga will lead in six regions if elections were to be held today, an opinion poll by Infotrak now shows. The poll released on Wednesday shows Deputy President William Ruto has a clear lead in three regions. Raila led in the overall ratings with 42  per cent of the respondents saying they will back him while 38 per cent endorsed Ruto. In the Coast region, Raila won the support of 49 per cent of respondents while 29 per cent said Ruto is their favourite. In the poll, Nyanza remains a crucial bastion of the  ODM leader with 73 of the respondents tipping him for the top seat. 12 per cent backed Ruto. In the North-Eastern region, Raila had 49 per cent, Lower Eastern 41 per cent, Western 48 per cent and Nairobi 50 per cent. The poll showed Ruto trailed Raila with 32 per cent in Northern Kenya and Lower Eastern, 12 per cent in Nyanza, 28 per cent in Western and 30 per cent in Nairobi. Interviews were, however, conducted using computer-assisted telephone interviews. Ruto, however, maintained the lead in the Mt Kenya region where 52 per cent of respondents tipped him for the top seat. Raila got 27 per cent in the region. In the North Rift region, Ruto had 56 per cent against Raila's 20 per cent. The DP also dominantly led in the South Rift region where he had 59 per cent with Raila trailing him with  25 per cent. The 11 region listed as battleground in the poll are; Tana River, Kwale, Lamu, Turkana, Samburu, Nakuru, West Pokot, Narok, Kajiado, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia. The polls also showed that 20 per cent of Kenyans are undecided while one per cent would choose any other presidential hopefuls, save for Raila and Ruto. The Infotrak poll was conducted between May 23 to 27. It had a margin error of + - 1.033 per cent. A total of 9,000 respondents across the 47 counties participated in the survey. They recorded a 95 per cent degree of confidence. Infrotrak did not indicate who financed the survey in their report.