Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has urged the government to control importation of cheap rice to shield local growers from unfair competition. She said despite the region producing most of the rice in the country, rice farmers have remained impoverished due to lack of market. The governor spoke on Thursday during rallies in Kiorugari and Kombo-ini in Mwea. She said cheap imported rice has flooded the market, forcing farmers to dispose theirs at a loss. “Importation of rice should not be allowed until all the rice produced in Mwea and other schemes in the country is depleted,” Waiguru said. She said the influx of imported rice from Asian countries is hurting farmers. Imported rice is normally sold at a cheaper price compared to Mwea pishori rice, which has always been on high demand. Unscrupulous traders have also found ways of blending the imported rice using the Mwea pishori, to give it the much loved aroma. Waiguru said imported rice should only be allowed into the country to bridge the gap, when there is shortage. She also called for the abolishment of irrigation tariffs, which she said increase the cost of rice production at the expense of the farmers. “Implementation of the new Water Resources Management Authority tariffs must be stopped and water given freely to the farmers, since they are tax payers. "Besides, Thiba dam increased irrigation water and it doesn’t make sense that anyone should increase prices,” the governor said. If implemented, the new water tariff could see rice farmers pay Sh15,000 per acre of rice. A cost, which rice farmers say will drive them out of the practice. Waiguru who is defending her gubernatorial seat on a UDA ticket has also accused opponents of destroying her campaign posters. She however said she will not engage in acts of lawlessness like pulling down her opponents posters or engaging in violence. The county boss said her campaign mantra ‘Wira Warie’, which translates to ‘Let the work speak’ resonates well with voters, since they are beneficiaries of her development initiatives and projects. She also asked voters to reject both Azimio and independent candidates saying they have no touch with the common man. “I am asking you to vote for UDA because the bottom-up economic model seeks to address problems affecting the common man. "Contrary to our competitors who want to continue with the trickle down model, which focuses on a few people at the top,” Waiguru said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)