Kalle Rovanpera has described his maiden WRC Safari Rally win as gratifying given the event’s status as the world’s toughest rally. The 21-year-old FIA World Rally Championship (WRC) leader went one place better than his dad, Harri with victory in Naivasha. Harri was beaten to the coveted title in 2002 by the late Colin McRae, incidentally on the last Safari before Kenya was dropped from the WRC circuit the same year. But 20 years later, Toyota Gazoo Racing’s Kalle attested to his driving antics amidst tough Naivasha gravel as he led teammates Elfyn Evans, Takamoto Kastuta and Sebastien Ogier to the top four positions. “This is a very tough rally and also very well known across the world for its tough stages. It’s so rewarding to win this event considering the nature of the terrain you have to master,” said Rovanpera. “I have to say, this was the hardest rally I have ever done and if I am honest, we just have to thank the team. To have four cars like this with no issues means it is clearly the strongest and fastest car. The team did a fantastic job.” Kalle enhanced his title hopes with a dominant win, thanks to his run of irresistible form. The Finn took over the lead from his Gazoo teammate, Ogier, who stopped to change a wheel in Friday’s final speed test. “The event was much tougher than last year. We expected it to be quite tough so I am happy to reach the end,” said Ogier. Kalle now tops the WRC log with a 65-points advantage as Toyota extended their manufacturers’ Championship lead by 62 points. Elfyn cemented a 49.9seconds advantage over Katsuta, who sealed back-to-back Safari podiums after finishing runner-up last year. The Japanese driver kept a keen eye on his mirrors with Ogier behind and ended 27.6sec ahead of the eight-time world champion. Ogier — winner of last year’s Safari — had mixed emotions at the end of the rally. Friday’s tyre trouble put him out of contention and he conceded more time on Saturday when the car’s engine ingested some of Africa’s famous fesh fesh. The hotly-anticipated battle with compatriot Sébastien Loeb never materialised either, as the nine-time world champion retired his M-Sport Ford Puma with engine woes on Friday. Nevertheless, Ogier was pleased to bring home more solid points for Toyota during his ‘part-time’ campaign. The last time the team occupied all top four positions was in Kenya in 1993.