The 2019 Africa Senior Weightlifting Championships bronze medalist Rachel Achieng is in high spirits ahead of the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham and believes she can extend her winning streak there. The 17-year-old is considered one of Kenya's fastest-rising weightlifters, having also won three gold medals at the 2017 Africa Youth and Junior Championships in Entebbe, Uganda at the tender age of 11. She also competed at 2019 All Africa Games in Rabat, Morocco. "My target in Birmingham is to snatch 80kgs and jerk 90 or 95kgs. I have been part of the training camp established by Nock (National Olympic Committee Kenya) and I can say that I have improved so much. Previously, I could snatch at least 65kg and jerk 75kg," Achieng, who competes in the 64kg category, said. She added: "I have improved my mental strength and my skills have gotten better. The camp has helped me a lot in increasing my total because now I can snatch 70kg and jerk 80kg." Achieng is among five lifters, including Winnie Langat, Maurice Aromo, Anthony Libasia, and Benjamin Osiemo, who have been training at Moi Stadium, Kasarani ahead of the Club Games from July 28 to August 8. All Africa Games triple silver medalist Langat said she has set lofty ambitions for herself in Birmingham and is optimistic of attaining them. "Training has been good and we thank the Ministry of Sports and National Olympic Committee of Kenya for this camp. My expectations as I train is to lift more and add some kilograms in clean and jerk. I want to add 5kgs each to my clean and jerk in Birmingham. Eventually, the goal is to improve my performance," she said. Echoing her sentiments, coach Douglas Locho said he has noted changes in the weightlifters' technique and is hopeful they will be at their peak when the camp concludes in two months. "So far we are building up on speed as well as rectifying some small aspects in our techniques. The lifters have adapted well to the training and even the training partners are here with them," he said. Locho added: "Generally, I think we will have good results from the team because for the first time we will be in camp for like two months and that will really play a part as far as our performance is concerned." He is being assisted by James Adede — Kenya's representative in weightlifting at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. 