The Anglican Church Archbishop Jackson Ole Sapit has called upon political leaders to shun unnecessary attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Bishop asked leaders to respect Uhuru and allow him to finalize his work in peace as he heads to retirement after August 9 this year. “I’m asking our political leaders to direct our people in a peaceful way without dividing them. Uhuru is preparing to go and rest and we ask that he should be accorded the respect he deserves in order for us to build a united Kenya,” Archbishop Ole Sapit said. “If we destroy Kenya we shall all cry and if we build it we shall all be happy.” He was speaking in Kakamega’s Bukhungu Stadium on Thursday where the Anglican Church was celebrating 25 years of the Anglican Development Services-ADS for Western Kenya. “Let’s compete in terms of ideas and policies. Don't go to a rally and the only thing you speak about is your opponent. Let’s avoid name-calling, branding of tribes and issuing threats to our opponents and their supporters," he said. He lauded the IEBC saying they seem more prepared than ever owing to the successful aspirant verification process that was concluded on Tuesday. “I want to ask IEBC to give Kenyans a chance to make sure their names are appearing well in the voter's register. IEBC should also address the issue of voter transfers that have been raised by some concerned people so that during election time everyone is satisfied to vote where they were registered,” he said. He added that IEBC should clean up the register so that Kenyans can have confidence that it will conduct free, fair and credible elections. Sapit also called upon Kenyans to maintain peace during this electioneering period and even after. “Peace contributes a lot to the development and happy life, and so we want to call upon Kenyans from all walks of life and all ethnic and political affiliation to maintain peace, and love one another because we need one another," he said. "God has created us as human beings who cannot live in isolation. We grow when we work, bring our minds and do business and associate in many other things." The Clergy said that the church will play a role in bringing the people together because the Country should stay in harmony for growth. “I believe that God is with us and I have a strong feeling that we shall have peaceful elections but all of us have a part to play to ensure that peace is realized.”