Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on Thursday officially launched the 2022 Cadet Course at the Prisons Staff Training College in Ruiru. This move comes after he had commissioned the first inaugural training for a new cadre of prison officers in December 2020. Matiang'i congratulated the 226 cadet officers for being successful in the rigorous recruitment process which had attracted well over 12,500 applicants countrywide. “Security is a noble profession. It calls for total dedication and selfless service to humanity. You will therefore be expected to invest heavily in hard work and the maintenance of high-level discipline during your training. Indeed, these are the major factors that form the foundation of your career progression," he said. The training will see them undergo rigorous training for 13 months. Matiang'i also touched on the construction of a level 4 hospital at the college that will serve both the local community and the surrounding community. The training will involve six-month of classwork at the Prisons Staff Training College (PSTC) in Ruiru, six months in practical field training, and the final month of endurance and leadership training at the soon-to-be-completed Wanini Keriri Hospital. The majority of them are medical practitioners and are expected to be staff at the hospital. Matang'i said the program was conceptualized purposely to position the Prisons Department to be at par with other law enforcement agencies in terms of efficiency, responsiveness, and professionalism. “When we look around us, we all agree that the security challenges and threats we are faced in today's world are different from those in the 70s. There is an urgent need to build capacity in the Service through quality training that is essential in creating faa favourable attitude towards police work and, more importantly, address the major shortcomings within the service.” Matiang'i said upon completion of the program, the cadets will use the knowledge and abilities acquired through the training to make a difference in Kenyan society. “Our goal, therefore, is to transform prisons from punitive to rehabilitation centres. This requires officers with specialized skills in a myriad of fields,” he said. “Recruitment of new officers at a middle management level will bring in new energy and perspectives in prison management and help the community around.” State Department for Correctional Services PS Safina Kwekwe and senior officers both from the Ministry and the Prisons Service were present during the event. “As you embark on training this cohort of professional trainees, I urge you to put your best foot forward to realize the successful implementation of their training program.”