Azimio running mate Martha Karua has reiterated that the coalition will conduct opinion polls to get the strongest candidate to fly their flag in other elective positions. This will happen in zones where they have candidates from different parties from within the Azimio coalition. After the opinion polls are conducted, the candidates who will have lost will have to drop their bids and to support the strongest candidate. Karua was speaking in Gilgil, Nakuru county during a consultative meeting with the Agikuyu community, including leaders seeking elective seats. "If we put three candidates on the ticket, and our main challenger front one candidate, that will be the same as voting for them. If we are not united the other side will trample on us," she said. "So, we must deliberate and come up with one candidate for every seat. But where we have one candidate like here in Nakuru, Lee Kinyanjui will be our Azimio candidate." Consequently, she called on those who will not make the cut not to cause disharmony in the coalition but join forces with the winning candidates to help them capture the seat. The "Iron Lady" as she is popular known has also promised that the Azimio government will give priority to the security of the people. This is after the Agikuyu community in the forum aired concerns about their security especially in parts of Molo, Njoro, Kuresoi North and Kuresoi South during the electioneering period. According to them cases of insecurity have been rampant in these areas every subsequent elections and this has made them have fear of losing their properties. Karua, however, assured them that the Azimio government will make sure security which is a right of every citizen person is guaranteed. "I will be available to all, my office will be open for all and I will make sure that all the issues raised will be looked into. Please vote for people you can trust so that they can address your issues," she stated. She also drummed support for Azimio la Umoja One Kenya candidate Raila Odinga, saying that together they will transform Kenya and fight corruption in all levels. On his part Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said that Azimio leaders in Nakuru will go to every corner of the vast county to popularise the Azimio bid. "We have engaged another gear, we will go to every town, every village and house to house to sell our agenda. We are confident that we will win this," Kinyanjui said.