Besieged Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has written to DCI boss George Kinoti seeking clarification on his remarks linking him to a global crime syndicate. Through Mutuma Gichuru and Associates Advocates, the legislator wants Kinoti to own or disown remarks attributed to him by Daily Nation which insinuated that he is a fraud. "We note that this publication comes amid the numerous allegations against our client and the malicious spread and/ or distribution of propaganda against our client herein," reads part of the letter to Kinoti. In the Daily Nation article, Kinoti is quoted saying the DCI will not surrender the capital city to frauds and that they will involve all international agencies in investigating and prosecuting anyone involved in academic fraud. Sakaja is seeking to become the next Governor of Nairobi County on a UDA ticket. He was cleared by the IEBC to contest for the seat on June 7, 2022. Two days later, four petitions were filed seeking the revocation of his clearance on grounds that his Bachelor of Science in Management degree from Uganda's Team University is fake. IEBC's Dispute Resolution Committee on Thursday dismissed three of the petitions after the complainants failed to appear before the panel. One petition by Dennis Wahome is, however, still active with the Tribunal expected to deliver its verdict on Sunday. In his letter to Kinoti, Sakaja said they gave the impression that the DCI office will have a hand in determining who will become the next Governor of Nairobi. "The content and timing of your alleged communique to the press, if true, is indeed very unfortunate as it is manifestly political, partisan and quite unprofessional." Sakaja said as the Senator of Nairobi, he is easily accessible and ready to present himself for questioning on his link to the alleged global crime syndicate in case any such investigations are ongoing. "Be it as it may, we wish to confirm that our client is a law-abiding citizen who has nothing to hide and once called upon he is ready and willing to avail himself and cooperate with the authorities," the law firm said in the letter.