Teachers Service Commission is seeking to hire 1,230 teachers from three counties in the North-Eastern region. The commission is seeking to hire teachers on both permanent, pensionable(844), and contractual terms(386). According to a circular by the commission, 764 posts will be for primary Schools while the remaining 80 posts will be slated for secondary schools. “Must be a registered teacher with Teachers Service Commission; must be a holder of a P1 certificate in the case of primary schools,” the circular reads. To qualify for the secondary school slots the teacher should have a minimum of a Diploma in Education. The circular clarifies that the teachers should be residents of three counties in the northern region. The applicants should come from the three counties or are teaching under the Board of Management in Garissa, Mandera and Wajir. “Interested and qualified candidates should submit their applications online through the TSC website, www.tsc.go.ke under ‘Careers’ or teachersonline.tsc.go.ke,” the circular reads. However, the commission revealed that successful candidates will be posted to serve in any part of the region and not necessarily in the county or school where they were interviewed. On contractual terms, TSC has also re-advertised 114 posts for Primary Schools and 272 posts for Secondary Schools in the same counties. “Merit lists generated during this recruitment for both primary and secondary schools will be used in subsequent recruitment processes within the financial year,” the circular reads. The deadline for submission of applications is July 7, and the list of shortlisted candidates will be uploaded on the commission’s website on July, 15. According to the 2021 Annual Report of TSC, teacher shortage in primary and secondary schools stood at 99,213. The report, which was presented to the National Assembly, said the figure represented 44,134 and 55,079 teachers for primary and secondary schools respectively. Under the Medium-Term Plan III of the Vision 2030, the government empowered TSC to recruit 5,000 teachers annually to alleviate the teacher shortage. In an effort to support the implementation of CBC, the commission trained 131,275 master trainers and teachers. During the period, 42,795 teachers were registered. In addition, 13,124 teachers were employed by the commission and 6,705 teachers were posted, transferred or deployed in different stations. Some 8,124 exited service through natural attrition, while a further, 12,000 intern teachers were hired. Also, 115,110 teachers were promoted through a competitive process, affirmative action and common cadre establishment, the report said.