Evans Kavisi and Nikhil Sachania have unveiled the first look of their livery ahead of World Rally Championship Safari Rally set for June 23-26. The two have landed a Sh9 million sponsorship package for the event which counts towards the sixth round of the WRC. “It’s such a great feeling to get funding in an event regarded as the toughest in the world. The sponsorship will go a long way in boosting our preparations well in time,” Nikhil Sachania, a physically challenged driver said. During the function, Kenya Commercial Bank announced Sh100 million sponsorship for WRC Safari. The bank will be the official banking partner for the rally set to take place in Nakuru County. The support will also see the bank sponsor two young Kenyan drivers – Kavisi and Sachania—who will be representing Team KCB during the world showpiece event. In 2019, KCB became the official financial partner for the Safari Rally Kenya for the World Rally Championship (WRC) with a 3-year commitment starting with a WRC candidate Rally staged in June of the same year. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, motorsports activities were suspended in 2020. The following year, Kenya was officially readmitted to the WRC with the inclusion of Safari Rally in the WRC calendar. For the 3-year engagement, KCB has committed to Sh250 million, which included Sh50m for 2019 and Sh100 million apiece for 2021 and 2022. This deal cements the bank’s footprint in supporting sports activities across various disciplines in the country namely golf, football, motorsports, rugby, and volleyball. While unveiling the two drivers, KCB Group's chief executive officer,  Paul Russo said the bank is keen on further deepening its contribution towards sports in the East African region to support communities and build a critical mass of sporting talents. “We take pleasure that our sponsorship has sustained motorsport and helped build a critical mass of talent competing on local and international platforms. The ambition is to progress this association into the elite level of global rallying,” Russo said. In 2021, the Safari Rally attracted 53 entries, out of which 34 were local Kenyan drivers. This year, the 5th edition of the world circuit is also expected to have over 50 local and international drivers. WRC Safari Rally CEO Phineas Kimathi said the 4-day world showpiece event will be held in the lakeside town of Naivasha and will go a long way in cementing Kenya’s value as the only country in Africa to host the WRC event. “KCB’s commitment to nurturing and developing sports in the country is unmatched. The sponsorship of the two drivers ensures that Team Kenya is well represented in this year’s circuit,” he said. He added: “This year’s fete is ground-breaking with the technological advancements made and specifically focusing on a sustainable future for all through rallying.” Over the past 18 years, KCB has invested over Sh1.2 billion in supporting motorsports.