Most maternal mortality cases in Lamu County are caused by logistical challenges. This is according to Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha, who spoke on Wednesday. Lamu County is among 15 counties that account for more than 60 per cent of maternal, newborn and child deaths in Kenya. According to the Kenya Demographic Health Survey of 2014, the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) at the county stands at 676 for every 100,000 live births, compared to the country's statistic of 362 maternal deaths out of every 100,000. The newborn death rate is 45 newborns out of every 1,000 live births compared to 22 nationally while the infant mortality rate is 76 per 1,000 compared to the average of 39 in Kenya. The under-five mortality rate is 106 children for every 1,000 compared to 76 deaths nationally. Twaha however said the recently launched Sh.9.5 Million state-of-the-art boat ambulance donated by the Safaricom Foundation is among the interventions being made by the county government to address the situation. The new boat ambulance will cut the time it takes to travel from Lamu East to King Fahd by boat from three hours to just 30 minutes. The advanced life support ambulance is fully fitted with emergency facilities including a patient monitor, medical oxygen, infusion pump, delivery kit for pregnant mothers, surgical kit and a stretcher for the patient. The initiative aims to develop higher-level referral strategies covering the movement of patients, specimens, parameters movement and specialists across Lamu with a special focus on Lamu East sub-county which is the most disadvantaged in terms of access to the referral hospital. “Lives have been lost on the sea over the years due to recurring water transport challenge around Lamu Island and other Islands. The county government has and still working to improve patient services between King Fahad County Hospital and other hospitals around the county,” said Twaha. The governor urged the private sector to come out and help aid Lamu in effectively dealing with water transport challenges. The new boat brings to a total of three water ambulances serving the entire region.