Skipper Dan Sikuta, Thomas Okeyo, Coleman Were and Elkeans Musonye are injury doubts for the Simbas final two Currie Cup matches against the Leopards and Eastern Province in Nairobi. Sikuta and Okeyo have ankle injuries while Were and Musonye have hamstring strains. The quartet missed the Simbas final game on South African soil, against South West District  Eagles on Saturday, a match the Simbas lost 24-7 in Cape Town. The squad arrived in two batches with the first team arriving on Monday and the second on Wednesday. Speaking on Wednesday, head coach Paul Odera said the Currie Cup matches have been an eye-opener for the side and observed that the squad is building up nicely for the Rugby World Cup qualifier encounter against Uganda in France next month. The former Kenya under 20 coach said there was no time to waste and that the team have already had a couple of training sessions to prepare for Saturday's match against the Leopards at the RFUEA ground. “The Currie Cup has been an eye-opener for not only the players but also the management. We have picked valuable lessons in our style of play, our attack, our defence our setpiece and preparation for the qualifiers,” said Odera. The tactician observed that the rest of the players are in good shape, which gives the technical bench an easy task in choosing a final squad of 30 to represent the country at the World Cup qualifiers. "We have so many good players to choose from and it's a good headache to have as a coach. The players have two more weeks to prove themselves before we name the final squad for the qualifiers,” said Odera. The Simbas have won only one match during the Currie Cup season, beating Border Bulldogs 35-12. However, they have lost 51-14 to Valke, 66-33 to Griffons, 45-33 to Boland Cavaliers, 22-21 to Zimbabwe and 24-7 to Eagles to place ninth on the log. “I would like to thank Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla and the South Africa Rugby Union (SARU) for giving us the opportunity to play in the Currie Cup," concluded Odera.