Wajir governor aspirant Siyad Abdullahi was on Sunday cleared by the IEBC to vie for the seat at the August 9 polls. Speaking after the clearance, Abdullahi said the journey to regain Wajir County's lost glory has now begun. "All is not lost. Let's give it a go again and save our beloved county. “I'm ready to give Wajir County a fresh start and this will be pegged on good policies for development and support programmes," Abdullahi said. He said he will lead and shape the agenda of the county’s economic and social transformation and restore hope to the residents through servant leadership. Abdullahi, a healthcare entrepreneur and public health expert with a bias in family medicine, said time has come for mistakes to be corrected in Wajir through radical transformative changes. “I pledge to introduce servant leadership, zero tolerance to corruption and prudent use of public resources. "I want to give an assurance that I will rebuild our ailing public health sector as well as ensure that there is safe drinking water from all corners of the county," Abdullahi said. The Wiper aspirant called on the electorate in Wajir County to ensure their voice is heard by exercising their right to vote. He urged the residents to rise above clan politics and vote for individuals based on their manifesto and track records. Abdullahi said that poor leadership is what has made Wajir lag behind in matters development. “We are clocking ten years of devolution but with nothing to show because we have been fighting each other over nothing. Wajir has been failed by its own people and it remains our own responsibility to lift this county up,” he said. “Wajir has been disenfranchised for long but time has come for a solution to be found.” Abdullahi pledged to work with all politicians in the county if elected governor on August 9. He was accompanied by his running mate Ahmed Hefow when he appeared before the IEBC for clearance. He said they will now embark on vigorous campaigns across the county with a series of meetings at the grassroots level to win the support of the residents. Abdullahi said he will use the networks and experience he acquired during over 20-year stay in the US to run the county better. He urged his opponents to hold peaceful campaigns devoid of name calling and incitement saying that peace must be protected at all times. “We have a county to look after and any aspirant or resident for that matter who will be hell-bent on causing division and disharmony must be called out, arrested and taken to court,” he said. Abdullahi's gubernatorial bid last week received a boost after he was endorsed by the Matan community.