Twelve of the 14 senator aspirants in Mombasa have been cleared by the IEBC to vie for the seat. IEBC Mombasa county elections manager Swalhah Yusuf on Wednesday said the remaining two did not show up for clearance. They are Margeta Asiko of DAP-Kenya and Joyce Rita Mwangoma of Safina party. No explanation has been given for their failure to appear for clearance at the School of Government in Kizingo. “These will not vie. They had up to yesterday at 4pm to be cleared but no their fate is sealed,” said Swalha. The 12 who have been cleared have three days, up to Friday 4pm, to withdraw from the race in writing if they so wish. “Some negotiate after clearance by the IEBC and withdraw from the race. There is a form that they are given which they are required to fill and submit to us within the three days after clearance,” said Yusuf on phone. The 12 who have been cleared include ODM’s incumbent Mohamed Faki, UDA’s Hamisi Mwaguya, Wiper’s Abdulsalaam Kassim, Jubilee’s Hazel Katana, PAA’s Miraj Abdallah, Independents Mohamed Amir, Alamin Somo (Independent), Peterson Mitau, Cornel Mutune, among others. They all had from May 29 to May 31 to show up for clearance at the Kenya School of Government in Kizingo. County workers’ salaries, the youth agenda and strengthening oversight top the agendas for most of the candidates. Incumbent Mohamed Faki of ODM on Tuesday gave himself an 80 per cent score saying he ensured Mombasa got more funds from the National Treasury. “Otherwise the revenue sharing formula they had proposed would have hurt us. It would have meant we got less funds but I stood firm for Mombasa,” said Faki. He said if re-elected, he will do even more to ensure more funds come to Mombasa. He said the salary issues that the county workers experienced in Mombasa were not unique to the county. “I would not blame the county for the delays in salary. The national government has this cash disbursement schedule which kept on delaying the release of the count funds. It was witnessed in almost all counties, not only in Mombasa,” said Faki, who promised to ensure ODM retains the seat. He said the county’s own revenues were also affected by the SGR directive from the state forcing cargo haulage by rail which killed businesses in Mombasa, and the Covid-19 pandemic. “These meant the county could not use its own revenue to pay workers,” said Faki. Hamisi Mwaguya of UDA said the change that Mombasa residents have been looking for is about to come with his candidature. “This is the journey to change Mombasa for the better. We have seen what bad leadership can do to our youth, who are forced into crime,” said Mwaguya. The UDA candidate said he will push his party leader William Ruto to fulfil his promise to bring back the port services to Mombasa. “Only UDA can bring the services back to Mombasa. No other entity can because those who say they will bring them back are the very same ones who took them away from you,” said Mwaguya. He said his leadership will bring hope back to the Mombasa youth, who make up the majority of the work force and residents in the county. Mohammed Amir, who is an independent candidate, said Mombasa youth will get all the funds that are meant for them if he clinches the seat. The former UDA aspirant said hundreds of millions of shillings meant to benefit the youth, women and persons with disability end up in a few individuals’ pockets because of a lack of proper oversight. “When I get there, this will be a thing of the past. I will not stand and watch as money is diverted to individuals’ pockets as we have seen in the past,” said Amir. He said being an independent candidate also gives him the freedom to crack the whip on rogue public servants without fear of reprisal from any entity. He said the huge number of independents in this year elections points to a broken political system which must be mended. “Political parties are no longer serving the interests of the people but those of the owners of the parties. But independent candidates will make a strong statement at the polls,” said Amir. Journalist-cum-teacher Alamin Somo, who is also vying for the Mombasa senator position as an independent candidate, said if he clinches the seat, he will keep all elected leaders on their toes. “The senator position is a crucial one that Mombasa people cannot afford to get wrong. You can afford to go wrong on all other positions but not the senator one,” he told Mombasa residents. The former Radio Salaam presenter said he is the face of change in Mombasa, which he said needs it the most. He said Mombasa county workers will no longer go for months without salaries should he clinch the seat. “I will ensure the funds I fight to bring to Mombasa are used for the intended purposes. Salary delays come because funds are diverted all the time. This will not happen under my watch,” said Somo. Faki said dialogue is key in leadership and this will be his style to solve any problems that will occur during the next five years should he retain his seat. “The doctors at some point had issues. But we called them and had a chat with them and found an amicable solution. With dialogue, many problems can be solved,” he said. Amir said political parties sometimes contribute to the failure of counties because they shield their own members even if they are responsible for non-delivery of services. “That is why I am glad I am no longer affiliated to any political party because I have seen first-hand what happens in there. There are a lot of clashing interests and the person who suffers the most are the people who vote expecting adequate service delivery,” said Amir. Apart from Faki, Mwaguya, Amir and Somo, others who were cleared to vie include Abdulsalaam Kassim (Wiper), Hisham Mwidau (Independent), Hazel Katana (Jubilee), Miraj Abdallah (PAA),