Zetech University Titans tackle former champions Ulinzi Warriors as the Kenya National Basketball League (KNBL) tips off at Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium on Saturday. The students' tactician Job Munene is aware of the task ahead for his charges in their top-tier debut against the soldiers, who have lately made some technical changes by bringing Ben Mufutu and Ester Butali at the helm. Munene is eyeing a playoff spot in only his only first season at the top. He, however, wants his players to be accurate with their shots and maintain discipline throughout the 40 minutes. “We know we are coming up against a big team out to regain their glory,” Munene said, adding: “We hope to play well against them by denying them any easy shots. We have an age advantage over them.” Strathmore University coach Tony Ochieng will be hoping to go one round better this time after falling to Ulinzi Warriors in the semifinals last year. Blades come face to face with Umoja in a match that starts at 2 pm. On Sunday, Eagle Wings have a date with the newly-promoted Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUATS) women's side handled by national Deaflympics coach Mary Chepkoi. The other game of the day will see Blades return to the courts to take on Thunder who are eyeing a strong finish after failing to make the last four. “We are playing the team that eliminated us during the play-offs last time, so it’s a good place to start. We have trained for two weeks but we are prepared for the match. I have the core of the team intact as I have not lost my key players,” said Thunder coach Sadat Gaya. In the Lower Division matches, Little Prince open the day with a match against Nairobi Institute of Business Studies (NIBS) while Strathmore University face-off with Eldoret’s Shoot4 Life, JKUATS play National Bank of Kenya and Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA) tackle Moi Air Base. On Sunday, Neosasa Morans play Shot4 Life, Blazers face JKUAT, Multi Media University tackle Zetech University and Snipers meet Stathmore University. 