Tusker head coach Robert Matano has prodded his charges to step on the gas pedal in their last encounter as they unleash their final ammunition to retain the Kenyan Premier League title. The brewers walloped Bidco United 2-0 at Moi Stadium Kasarani to consolidate their position at the summit of the log. However, they must battle tooth and nail to fend off immense pressure from Kakamega Homeboyz who are level with them on points but with an inferior goal difference. Rodgers Ouma put the brewers ahead in the 65th minute before Lawrence Luvanda netted on the second bite of the cherry after Isaac Kipyegon's free-kick bounced off the crossbar. “It looks so near yet so far. We are almost there but obviously, Kakamega Homeboyz are following close and we can't overlook that threat,” Matano said. “We played well, the boys followed instructions and hopefully, we shall replicate this performance in our final match come next weekend.” A visibly livid Bidco tactician, Anthony Akhulia, called out his charges for throwing away glaring opportunities in the Sunday affair. “It's always the same story. We create chances and fail miserably in front of the goal. We need to sharpen our attacking force in the new season if we are serious about charging for the title like the rest of the teams,” Akhulia said. Meanwhile, Vihiga Bullets have been demoted from the top tier following their heavy 4-1 loss to Kenya Police at the Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega on Sunday. Wazito’s 2-1 win over Posta Rangers on Saturday piled pressure on Bullets who had to beat the Police to reignite their hopes of surviving. Clinton Kinanga opened the floodgates in the 28th minute before David Simiyu doubled the advantage eight minutes later after being neatly teed up by Alvin Mang’eni. Robert Arrot reduced the deficit from the spot a few minutes to the breather. However, Clifton Miheso's brace in the 57th and 89th minutes sealed Vihiga 's fate. Bullets' away end-the-season encounter against Wazito in Nairobi has now been reduced to a dead rubber fixture. Elsewhere, Kakamega Homeboyz earned a walkover after Talanta failed to show up at Ruaraka grounds on Sunday. Record champions Gor Mahia were held to a one-all draw by visiting Nzoia Sugar at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. 