A Kenyan of Italian origin is among five gubernatorial candidates who have been cleared by the IEBC in Kilifi County to contest in the upcoming general elections on August 9. Franco Esposito popularly known as Kasoso Baya is contesting for an elective post for the third time. He first contested for the Magarini Parliamentary seat in 2007 and lost before contesting again in 2017 and lost to Michael Kingi, the Current MP for Magarini. This time, he chose to go as an independent candidate and is confident of becoming the second governor of Kilifi. The current Governor Amason Kingi is on his second and final term in office. Those cleared to vie include Former Devolution CAS Gideon Mung'aro (ODM) Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa (UDA), lawyer George Kithi (PAA), Franco Esposito Kasoso Baya, and Engineer Dzombo Mbaru of Safina party. Kilifi County IEBC Returning Officer Hussein Gurre said the exercise was without any hitches. “As you are aware the elections are on August 9, we are preparing well and we hope things will remain the same,” he said. Gurre appealed to aspirants from MCAs to governors to ensure they maintain peace and desist from any clashes or perpetration of violence against any individual. He said they are vigilant to ensure anyone who goes against the rules faces the full force of the law. “If the registration exercise is something to go by, we expect to have peaceful campaigns and peaceful elections,” he said. Esposito said he is confident of winning these elections. He said his team will be going around the entire seven constituencies for campaigns. On the other hand, he said his main target would be to reach out to the locals who are suffering to back his bid. “I am answering the call of the people of Kilifi County who are looking for a change,” he said. Esposito will be using the name Kasoso Baya on the ballot box for easy identification by his voters. He is being deputized by former Assistant County Commissioner Alphonce Kombe from the Kaloleni constituency. Pamoja African Alliance Candidate George Kithi together with his Deputy Athman Seif Were also cleared. Kithi told journalists that the clearance exercise was thorough. Kithi said they would do peaceful campaigns and called on all residents of Kilifi to desist from any form of violence during the campaign period. “There is no need for a person to clash with another one because of people seeking to be elected. The same leaders are the ones who compare notes after campaigns,” he said. Dzombo Mbaru of the Safina Party who was also cleared alongside his deputy designate Rita Baya. They said their agenda had five pillars. They include ensuring people recognize themselves as Kilifians, good governance, and services such as education, water, infrastructure, and health. "We check on micro and macroeconomics of Kilifi people. We focus on how Kilifi's economy will thrive,” he said. Mbaru said he intends to revive the cooperative movement to uplift the lives of people.