Westlands Member of Parliament Tim Wanyonyi has rallied his supporters to vote for Raila Odinga as the next president in the August General elections for the final revolution. At the same time, he urged the locals to throw their weight behind Azimio’s Nairobi gubernatorial candidate Polycarp Igathe and himself to retain his seat so that they can protect Raila from rival forces in the City. Speaking on Friday, when he met members of the Kikuyu community in Kangemi, Wanyonyi said that he was solidly behind the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance candidates across the city. He said that he had obeyed counsel from ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta to step down from his gubernatorial bid and urged his supporters to do the same and support the two leaders’ vision and plans. “We must make him governor. We must carry him to that seat whether he likes it or not,” Wanyonyi said as he campaigned for Igathe. Wanyonyi also urged his supporters to vote for ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna and Esther Passaris as Senator and Woman Rep respectively so that as president, Raila can have a peaceful time. According to Wanyonyi, Raila will have peace of mind to deliver his promise to Kenyans if he is well protected by his foot soldiers under the Azimio umbrella so that what happened between President Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto cannot be repeated. He said Ruto was confident in curtailing Uhuru’s progress because the DP boasted of having numbers in Parliament than Uhuru and even entertained the thought of impeaching the president. “We want Raila to have his foot soldiers in parliament and the County Assembly so that his plans can sail through smoothly. That’s why I am asking you to vote for me to be his foot soldier in parliament.” He exuded confidence that he will retain his seat in the August 9 poll and that he will still serve Westlands people just like he has done in his last two terms. In Raila, he said, the thorny issue of land ownership among others will be solved properly and every Kenyan will have a chance to enjoy better service from the government. Wanyonyi asked women to rally behind one of their own in Martha Karua, who is the former Prime minister's running mate. His remarks come amid stepped up campaigns to ensure Azimio candidates clinch key seats in the city county. On Friday, Raila chaired the Azimio Council strategy meeting held at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre which set out to look at their campaign blue print among other things.