Deputy President William Ruto has cautioned the Coast residents against fake leaders and cartels in politics. He said people must be very careful because the Kenyan political circle is full of cartels and fraudsters who are into money and power-seeking missions. He said politicians move around telling empty promises and lie to innocent citizens as they make unrealistic pledges. "The politics in Kenya is full of conmen," he said. He said the dishonest leaders are into wealth and power-sharing for self-gain and forget to deal with the issues of ordinary people. Ruto said a time has come for people to reject imposters and elect visionary leaders. He spoke on Saturday during an economic forum at Kwale headquarters in Matuga, Kwale County. He popularized his bottom-up economy in the region, adding it was the solution to Kenyan problems. The DP said the country has lagged because many leaders do not understand the challenges affecting the common citizens. "It is the so-called ‘system’ that has led to the suffering of millions of Kenyans and wreaked havoc on the economy. "We must come up with a new discussion, the one that is about empowerment, job creation, and improvement of the living standards," he said. He noted that some leaders have been clueless on how to deal with the current problems because their priorities are to benefit themselves. "Kenya Kwanza government seeks to welcome every citizen in development agendas and work on ways in which they can be empowered and transform the economy," he said. If elected on August 9, the DP said his government will respect and support the livelihoods of each Kenyan. He said his agenda is to look for solutions that affect the progress of Kenyans and the economy, unlike other leaders. "My goal is to see how small-scale traders can be helped to grow their businesses and profits," he said. Ruto promised Kwale residents of improved infrastructure and food security. The Kenya Kwanza leader said his government will invest heavily in agriculture, the blue economy, and the transport sector to benefit the majority and not individuals. He also said he will create modern market stalls and a conducive business environment to help boost livelihoods. "There will be special funds in every market to empower small-scale traders," he said.