Nacada has raised concerns over the rise in the sale and consumption of heroin and cocaine in Witeithie estate, Juja, in Kiambu county. Nacada Central region manager Amos Warui said drug peddlers have found a lucrative market in Witeithie due to its proximity to Nairobi and its high population. He spoke during a security and development meeting organised at Witeithie market by Juja subcounty deputy county commissioner Charles Muriithi. Warui said the estate is sandwiched between Juja and Thika and most local universities and college students reside there. “Now drug peddlers are targeting these youths to make a quick buck at the expense of our future generation,” he  said. Warui said action must be taken immediately to reverse the situation through concerted efforts by all stakeholders. “These days our youth and especially college and university students are endangering their lives by using one syringe to inject themselves with hard drugs. This raises the risk of contracting diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis B,” he said. Warui urged parents to monitor their children to prevent them from falling prey to drug peddlers. He warned that some politicians might use alcohol and drugs to incite idle young Kenyans into violence. Andrew Githui from Nacada said smoking is costing the world eight million lives per year and should be avoided at all costs. Residents and leaders, led by Edith Wakio, had complained that brews and drugs were ruining the lives of young people in the area. They said wine and spirits outlets open as early as 5am and close at midnight. Wakio said men and youths have abdicated their responsibility and have turned to beggars who hang around these outlets to solicit handouts to buy cheap liquor. “We are calling for a total crackdown on these joints that have spread in almost every plot within this estate,” she said. Area bars owners association chairman George Gitau said unlicensed liquor cutlets should be closed. “These outlets are the ones selling outlawed liquor and drugs to our youths and as a result tarnishing the name of legitimate businesses. We want them closed and owners put behind bars,” he said. Deputy county commissioner Muriithi ordered a crackdown on drug peddlers and illegal brew dens. He also said all liquor outlets violating alcoholic drinks laws must be closed immediately. Muriithi instructed senior chief Muiruri Muchui to camp along River Ndarugu and wipe out the mushrooming chang’aa brewing dens. The administrator also urged residents to be peaceful before, during and after elections. He said security personnel are on alert and will not allow any lawlessness. Edited by A.N