@ppcheti Lamu politicians have signed a decency and peace charter pledging to maintain peace during their campaigns as the country gears up for the August 9 polls. The politicians joined security officers, businesspeople and the youth in a 5km peace run across the Mokowe town in Lamu West, to county commissioner Irungu Macharia’s office where they delivered the peace charter pledge. The Political Decency and Peace Run Initiative was hosted by members of the county security committee, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and the Special Olympics Kenya Committee. The run was aimed at bringing political actors and the electorate together to advocate for peaceful elections. Lamu West MP hopeful Josephat Musembi, who is running on the Usawa Kwa Wote party, pledged to ensure cohesive politics and campaigns. “I have deliberately tailored my manifesto and campaigns towards building a social cohesive county regardless of one’s ethnic community or religious beliefs,” Musembi said. Politician Kaviha Khamis who is also running for Lamu West MP seat as an Independent candidate pledged commitment to ensuring that his campaigns uphold peace even beyond August 9. Hindi MCA Anab Hajji vowed not to be the source of hateful politics while her rival Yunus Is’akhia of Amani National Congress, urged Lamu youth not to be swayed by politicians who might want to use them to spread divisive politics. “Youths need to be wary because if they get caught they will serve the sentences alone and no politician will risk their necks to save them,”  Is’akhia said. Macharia urged politicians to adhere to the IEBC code of conduct rule book as they campaign. He lauded the politicians who attended the peace run initiative and acknowledged that it is a sign of goodwill. “When politicians pledge to carry out their campaigns peacefully regardless of their political interest, it means a lot to Lamu and Kenya,” Macharia said. “We are grateful for those who showed up because that’s a sign of maturity.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris