Wales’ thrilling World Cup play-off final win over Ukraine on Sunday is the national team’s “greatest” result, says Gareth Bale. The talismanic forward made the difference when his 34th-minute free-kick was headed into his own net by Ukraine captain Andriy Yarmolenko. The result ended Wales’ 64-year wait for a World Cup finals appearance. “It’s the greatest result in history for Welsh football,” Bale told Sky Sports. “It means everything. It’s what dreams are made of. I’m speechless because I’m so happy. Words can’t describe how we feel at the moment.” Wales will now head to Qatar in November, where they will face England, USA and Iran in Group B at the World Cup. “It’s difficult to put it into words,” added Bale on BBC Radio Wales. “It’s what we’ve been working all our careers for and to do this for the fans, the nation, ourselves and our families is an incredible achievement — and it will be something that we will be forever proud of. “It means everything. It is the last piece of the jigsaw that we all wanted and we’re going to celebrate well tonight.” The other side of the coin was the end of Ukraine’s fairytale, bidding to reach just the second World Cup finals in their history. Their run had included beating Scotland at Hampden in the semi-final, giving much-needed cheer to a nation torn apart by war since Russia’s invasion a little more than 100 days ago. Ukraine’s Manchester City player Oleksandr Zinchenko told Sky Sports: “The goalkeeper for Wales [Wayne Hennessey] did amazing, he is definitely man of the match. “I feel sorry for our fans, but I wish Wales all the best for the World Cup.” Meanwhile, Wales manager Rob Paige has hailed goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey as “world class” after his outstanding display, with nine saves. Interim manager Page picked Hennessey for the qualification decider, in place of the first choice Danny Ward, who was injured for the semi-final against Austria. The 35-year-old has spent this past Premier League season as back-up keeper at Burnley but despite his lack of first-team action, he delivered a match-winning performance. “He was magnificent, world class,” said Page, “I pulled Wardy (for a chat) and showed him that respect that I was starting Wayne, it was purely because he played in the semi-final and didn’t let us down so it would have been harsh to drop him. I thought he went to another level tonight,” he added. Hennessey’s alertness kept Wales in the game during a difficult opening half hour when he made three crucial saves and late in the game he produced the best save of all with a one-handed palm to keep out a header from Artem Dovbyk. The former Crystal Palace and Wolverhampton Wanderers keeper, who was making his 102nd appearance for his country, said he had saved his best performance for Wales for the most important match. “That’s the best game I’ve had in a Welsh shirt, I’m buzzing,” he said. “It’s incredible. Everyone on the pitch tonight was amazing, and even those who didn’t make it on. We’re a small nation, and it’s great to take everyone to a World Cup,” he added. Captain Gareth Bale, who led Wales to the semi-finals of Euro 2016, said that reaching the World Cup, which had eluded the team since 1958, was an even better success. “The result is the greatest in Welsh football history. We’re going to a World Cup,” he said. “It means everything, what dreams are made of, we’ve been working towards it since I first came in here. Words can’t describe how we feel at the moment.” “It’s difficult to put it into words. It’s what we’ve been working all our careers for and to do this for the fans, the nation, ourselves and our families is an incredible achievement, and it will be something that we will be forever proud of,” added the former Real Madrid midfielder, who is now a free agent. “It means everything. It is the last piece of the jigsaw that we all wanted and we’re going to celebrate well tonight.”