Narok North MP Motalel ole Kenta has said the Kipsigis community was duped by well-known people into buying land in the forest area. Kenta, who is running for Narok governor, on Sunday said people out to get money from poor people sold them 18,000 acres. They deserve to get the money back, he said. He made the remarks after a rally at Chebitoik area in Emurua Dikirr constituency. In attendance were Youths Affairs PS Charles Sunkuli, Narok Woman Representative candidate on the CCM ticket Emily Korir, former Ilmotiok MCA Joseph Barusei and former Narok Agriculture CEC Richard Birir. It was Kenta's first campaign visit to the Kipsigis region and he received warm welcome from community that promised to back his Narok governor's bid. “I knew the truth about Mau forest and when I went public about it, some leaders started fighting me saying that I wanted people to move out of their land, which was totally wrong,” Kenta said. Kenta, running on an ODM ticket, said leaders were not sincere and didn't tell people the truth about the forest, but only sought their self-interest. The candidate said those responsible for selling Mau land should return the money to the people. It was public land and not available for sale, he said. “It is sad many people sold their ancestral land and bought land in the Mau forest. Those behind the schemes knew very well there was no land available for sale," Kenta said. He denied claims that if elected governor he would evict non-Maasai people. He said propaganda is being peddled by his opponents who fear his tough stand on fighting corruption and ensuring justice is done. “I will serve all people without favouritism or negligence because Narok is a cosmopolitan county that incorporates all tribes and races. My leadership will be inclusive to ensure free interactions, peace and unity," Kenta said. He will face former Kenta Labour CAS Patrick Ntutu, who is running on the UDA ticket. During the November 1, 2019, evictions, the government removed more than 35,000 residents.It reclaimed more than 40,000 hectares (98,842 acres) and planted more than three million seedlings. Sunkuli said that he sacrificed his political ambitions in favour of Kenta, saying Kenta is knowledgeable and skilled, able to take Narok to the next level. “After showing interest in governor’s seat, the elders persuaded me to leave it to my brother Kenta and I agreed for the betterment of our county,” Sunkuli said. He expressed confidence that Azimio will take most of the seats in the county. Barusei said the Kipsigis community are now ready to support his bid after his opponents instilled fears in the community. “Our people have changed the narrative that was being spread that you are against the Kipsigis community. Now people know that have been advocating for their good and we will support you to the fullest,”Barusei said. (Edited by V. Graham)