Independent Migori governor aspirant Robert Okong’o failed to make the cut after close to 10 hours with Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials. Okong’o and his running mate Michael Owuonda arrived at the Migori county IEBC offices at about midday on Tuesday and left after 9:30pm. County returning officer Ben Moseti said he was unable to clear Okong'o after the aspirant failed to produce original copies of national identification cards and academic papers. The IEBC also said he was not a registered voter. “It is true Robert Okongo was not cleared for the governor race as he had several issues. We decided to burn the midnight oil to allow him correct them but he was unable to do so by the deadline,” Moseti said. Moseti said apart from original certificates, the candidate also failed to produce the original EACC clearance form and had no signatories for his bid. “We were patient enough and we waited until 9:30pm when he failed to get cleared,” Moseti said. Okong’o said he will move to the tribunal to be included in the ballot. "Someone is working to scuttle my bid. This move is sanctioned by people who are scared to face me on the ballot," he said. “I am shocked that I was told I am not a registered voter in Migori, while the same commission gazetted my name and was aware when I started the process. “I will still be on the ballot and I’ll exhaust all available efforts, this is not over." Former MP John Pesa was also forced to drop his running mate in the last-day drama as aspirants sought IEBC clearance. On Monday, Pesa picked Marwa Muhingira and drop journalist Matiko Bohoko to get cleared. Weeks ago, Bohoko was unveiled in major homecoming rallies but Pesa confirmed why they had to drop him. “We can confirm that Bohoko had all academic qualifications, we changed him because our rivals went on a propaganda campaign against him,” Pesa said. Pesa and his team had been hard-pressed since picking Bohoko with allegations that his academic qualifications were suspect. Apart from Pesa, seven other candidates have been cleared to vie in the race to succeed Okoth Obado. They include Senator Ochillo Ayacko and Joseph Mahira who will vie on Orange Democratic Movement ticket. Businessman Philip Mwabe(Independent), his deputy John Magaiwa, former speaker Boaz Okoth(Independent),Dalmas Otieno(Jubilee),Jane Moronge(UPIA),Rebecca Maroa(UDA) and Byron Oginga(LDP). “We are on the right track to take Migori to the next level in development, stop corruption, nepotism and cronyism,” Ayacko said. Ayacko said he was confident ODM will clinch all the seats in Migori and ensure Raila Odinga is elected president. Mwabe said they also support a Raila presidency and will ensure they spur the economy through industrialisation. Migori has over 450,000 registered voters. (Edited by Tabnacha O)