A Nairobi resident has moved to court seeking to quash the appointment of Mary Chao Mwadime as chairperson of the board and CEO of Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA). David Njue Kithuka through lawyer Henry Kurauka claims the appointment of Mwadime and CEO Terry Kiunge was invalid and wants it declared null and void. Njue wants the court to issue an order compelling the Kemsa board to ensure there is seamless, competitive, transparent fair and just recruitment of its CEO. “My client is seeking an order to quash KEMSA’s appointment of MS Terry Kiunge Ramathani as the CEO of Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA),” says Kurauka in court documents. They are also seeking a declaration that the KEMSA board have failed in their duty to uphold the rule of law, the constitution and to protect the public interest in the recruitment of its CEO. Lawyer Kurauka argues that the application is urgent and ought to be determined immediately in the interest of justice and to prevent impunity, and abuse of the rule of law and to preserve the substratum of this petition. He states that the Kemsa board of directors having relied on the health laws Act 2019 which had been annulled by both courts, committed illegality in recruiting a CEO who did not meet the necessary qualification. The Act required applicants to possess a first degree in Pharmacy or Medicine and not a degree in Education. “By a memo, dated May 10, 2022, The Chairperson of the Board of directors KEMSA, communicated to all staff that Terry Kiunge Ramathani has been appointed CEO of KEMSA," added Kurauka. He added that in the petition that it was presumed that the appointment was done by the Cabinet Secretary for health as provided for by the law and in a memo, the board stated that Kiunge holds a degree in Education from Kenyatta University. He added that the recruitment raises conflict of interest, government and integrity issues given her involvement in the recruitment process where she was part of the board that formulated job requirements and description for the position of the CEO before her revocation to pave way for recruitment. “During the Period of an advertisement on March 5, 2022, for the recruitment of the CEO, Kung was still a board member of KEMSA,” he added. He claimed that Kiunge was interviewed by her former colleagues on the board which conferred undue advantage upon her. Njue says she influenced some job requirements as evidenced in the advertisement notice where a restrictive requirement of five years of International experience dealing with cross-cultural teams ‘was incorporated. The matter will be heard on June 27.