Cheers, songs and ululation filled the air for the better part of Saturday at IEBC offices in Kerugoya after three hopefuls were cleared to run for Kirinyaga governor. Jubilee party’s Charles Kibiru, TSP's Joseph Ndathi and independent hopeful Wangui Ngirici were cleared by the IEBC to vie. However, ANC’s Peter Ireri was not cleared after he failed to show up with a proposer. The electoral commission pushed his clearance to Monday morning. Each of the three candidates made pledges to the voters. Kibiru, the current Kirinyaga senator, promised to run a public-friendly administration. He said decisions will be made after public participation sessions are conducted. Kibiru said residents have the sovereign power to decide what they want and his administration's duty will be to implement what they want. He has picked incumbent Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri as his running mate. Kibiru said both of them understand the county's struggles and will work hard to ensure prudent spending of public funds. “We will seal any leakage where money has been dropping so that the people of Kirinyaga can have value for the taxes they pay. My main agenda is improving primary healthcare, agriculture and enhancing value addition for the produce coming from Kirinyaga,” he said. Ndathi said he will give his competitors a run for their money. “Those saying that the contest is a two-horse race should now sit back and watch. The game has just started. With the campaigns now officially open, I promise to aggressively canvass for votes until I get that post,” he said. Ndathi, a former Kirinyaga governor, promised to complete all the stalled projects. “We run the first county government on a budget of Sh3 million and despite our limited funds, we initiated massive projects as guided by our county integrated plan development. What we left stalled and which has not been completed by the current administration, I’m coming to oversee completion,” he said. Ndathi also pledged to improve the county's agricultural value chain by constructing factories in all constituencies. He said one of his top priorities will be to come up with farmer-friendly policies. Ndathi further promised to improve the county’s human resource aspect by ensuring timely payment of salaries, pay increments to county staff and reinstatement of sacked health workers. He unveiled his running mate Dr Judy Wathata Kinyua, whom he hopes will bring expertise and value into his administration. Ngirici, the incumbent Kirinyaga Woman Representative, exuded confidence in capturing the seat. She said her administration would introduce a free feeding programme in all public ECDE centres to keep pupils in schools and improve education. Ngirici also pledged to transform the working conditions of ECDE teachers through better remuneration and permanent and pensionable employment scheme. She said she will improve the provision of healthcare by employing sufficient health workers, and overseeing the construction of cottage industries and a fertiliser factory. Ngirici has picked Eliud Wanjao as her running mate. The IEBC has listed eight governor hopefuls, among them Governor Ann Waiguru, who is seeking reelection. Edited by A.N