After boycotts, unresolved cases and a cloud of match-fixing claims rocked the local scene, the FKF Premier League season comes to a close this weekend with eight matches lined up. We will, however, focus on three games that will shape up the season. Kakamega Homeboyz vs Kariobangi Sharks Prediction: Homeboyz.... 2 Sharks....0 FC Talanta coach Ken Kenyatta lamented how his players abandoned him in the hour of need as they were supposed to host title-chasing Kakamega Homeboyz. The visitors got three easy points and will now be up against a Kariobangi Sharks side that has not posted very good results on the road. For Homeboyz, it will be all about getting a win and a very good goal difference. At home, they have not been so convincing but smelling the trophy, Bernard Mwalala’s boys will definitely win this one. Bidco vs Tusker FC Prediction: Oilers... 0  Brewers ...3 These are two sides with contrasting forms. Bidco have had a very torrid second leg while the reigning champions have had a renaissance in the second leg and are in pole position to retain the title. The game that was supposed to be played at the Thika Stadium has been brought to the Kasarani and perhaps the FKF Transition Committee are planning a grand end to the season if Robert Matano’s Tusker win on Sunday. Tusker have a simple job to do, get a win and relax. This should be easy for them. Police FC vs Bandari Prediction: Police ...1 Porters ...1 Three former Harambee Stars’ captains now in managerial duties at their respective clubs will be out to prove their worth here. Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ and Musa Otieno are in charge of the Police and after a very difficult start to their reign, they have finally gotten it right towards the business end of the season. Anthony ‘Modo’ Kimani on the other side is handling a Bandari side that saw their chances of lifting their first-ever league title go up in smoke following a devastating 1-0 loss to City Stars at home. It is all about pride and this match will be all about entertainment and one full of passion from sets of players and the technical bench.