Kenya Simbas head coach Paul Odera has made 10 changes to the Simbas squad that face Leopards in this Saturday's Currie Cup at the RFUEA ground. Edward Mwaura, Teddy Akala and Ephraim Oduor come in for Patrick Ouko, Eugene Sifuna and Joseph Odero in the front row while Emmanuel Silungi and Davis Chenge will replace Brian Juma and Martin Owila in the second row. Skipper Dan Sikuta has recovered from an ankle injury and will start in the back row alongside George Nyambua and Betwell Anami. Samuel Asati starts at scrumhalf and will partner with United Kingdom-based Dominic Coulson. John Okoth and Vincent Onyala will be in midfield while Bildad Ogeta, Derrick Ashiundu and Darwin Mukidza are in the back three. Odera expects Leopards to be fast and physical during Saturday's clash. "From the analysis, we have done, Leopards are quick and we must nullify their speed and play to our strengths and win the collisions upfront," added Odera. The former Kenya Under-20 coach said the team has improved in the scrum but must get better in the lineout and territorial kicking. “In the scrum, we are operating at 60-70 percent. Our line-outs are a bit shaky and we must get better at it for this game and next week's match against Eastern Province,” he added. Odera said he is delighted to play at home for the first time in front of fans after a two-year hiatus. "In asking fans to turn up in large numbers and support us, the 16th man will be very crucial when we play on Saturday," said Odera. He added that competition for places in the squad is very intense. "This is healthy and it gives us so many options in terms of combinations and it's a good thing for a coach when you have so many good players to choose from,”  he added. The Leopards arrived in the country on Wednesday and had a light training session on Thursday. The Simbas are using the Currie Cup as a build-up for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers against Uganda next month. If Kenya beat Uganda in the quarterfinals, they will proceed to the semi where they face the winner of Senegal vs Algeria match. The other half of the draw will see powerhouse Namibia face Burkina Faso while Zimbabwe take on Ivory Coast.