ODM Mombasa gubernatorial candidate Abdulswamad Nassir has promised to waive all penalties accrued during the Covid-19 pandemic to allow businesses in the county to recover. Nassir, who was campaigning at the Kongowea Market to woo more than 10,000 traders, also promised to review licence fees to ensure affordability. “Licences should not be an obstacle for doing business in Mombasa,” Nassir said. He promised to restructure the county taxation regime based on the economic strength of the businesses, refurbish existing markets and construct modern ones equipped with cold storage facilities. The Mvita MP said the storage facilities will support the preservation of perishable food items, especially the agricultural and fish products to ensure they do not go to waste. “My commitment as governor is to also review the design of the market to make it easily accessible to persons with disability and install an electric elevator system,” Nassir said. Nassir also pledged to provide adequate security for traders to create a conducive business environment. He assured the traders that his administration will install CCTV cameras in the market to boost security. “My administration is also going to provide financial support through the revolving fund to empower you and establish a new generation of Nyali traders,” Nassir said. He was accompanied by Jomvu MP Badi Twalib and his Likoni counterpart Mishi Mboko. Others were MP aspirants Said Abdalla (Nyali), Mohamed Soud Machele (Mvita), Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni) and ZamZam Mohamed ( woman representative) and MCA candidates. Later, Nassir commissioned the opening of eight new classrooms and a modern kitchen at Sparki Primary School fully funded by the Mvita NG-CDF. Naasir said now he expects the student enrollment at the school to increase from 1,037 to 1,400 per year. “As your governor, I intend to continue with the same focus and zeal in supporting education across the county,” he said. According to Nassir, it is estimated that 56,798 children, who should be in primary school and 52,227 secondary school-age learners are out missing out in the county. He said that if the situation is not addressed, then it is a social ticking time bomb. As per the Mombasa adolescent and youth survey, the primary school net enrolment rate stands at 69 per cent, “Significantly, our secondary school net enrolment rate is much lower at 28 per cent, this means that the county’s primary to secondary transition rate is extremely poor,” Nassir said. In his education pillar, as outlined in his manifesto, Nassir has promised to turn to a comprehensive and transparent bursary programme to ensure Mombasa children have access to quality education. He has also promised to institute a free school feeding programme targeting ECDE centres across the county. “Our government will revive village polytechnics through expansion of the ‘Skillz Mtaani’ programme to absorb the significant population of youth outside formal education and empower them with trade skills to earn a living,” he said. He said he will work closely with the National Industrial Training Authority on certification of the youth through the polytechnics and structured attachments to county government. (Edited by Tabnacha O)