Double world 1,500m champion Faith Kipyegon said she was simply looking forward to starting her season in the right way when she clocked a meet record of 3:52.59 in her specialty at the Prefontaine Classic over the weekend. The two-time Olympic champion also clocked a world lead as Ethiopian Gudaf Tsegay (3:54.21) and Canadian Gabriela Debues-Stafford (3:58.62) came second and third respectively. The Ethiopian and Canadian's times were also season bests. "It was a surprise. For me, I just wanted to open my season in a nice way. Open my 1500 in a nice way. And focus on the world championship," Kipyegon said. This was her second Diamond League race this year after competing in the women's 3000m in Doha, Qatar, a fortnight ago. On that occasion, Kipyegon timed 8:38.05 to finish second behind winner, Burundian Francine Niyonsaba (8:37.70) as Australian Jessica Hull crossed the finish line in third in 8:40.98. She will be, hopefully, back in Eugene in July this year where she will be keen on defending her world title for the third time, in what could be another showdown with Dutchwoman Sifan Hassan. Regardless of the challenge ahead, Kipyegon is keeping the faith that lightning will strike twice for her in Eugene when she returns for the world championship. "It was a really good race Eugene. I was not expecting such a quick time today, but I’m really happy about the race, and the meet record. With the weather conditions, I did not expect to break this record but I thank God for enabling me to do it," she said. Kipyegon added: "I am looking forward to this year...the world championship and even the possibility of the world record. I am going to try my best although I don't know where exactly I might be able to do it." She further credited her rigorous training for her improved performances this year. "The training has been going on super...super well. The big target is here in Oregon and I am looking forward to the World Championship," she said. Elsewhere, Kenyan-born Kazakhstani runner Norah Jeruto believes she is primed for glory at the World Championships after clinching the women's 3000m steeplechase at the cradle of American athletics, during the Prefontaine Classic. Jeruto clocked a world lead of 8:57.97 ahead of another Kenyan-born, Bahrain's Winfred Yavi (8:58.71) and Ethiopian Mekides Abebe (9:03.26) in second and third respectively. "The weather was not good and I tried my best. Now I go back to training to prepare for the World Championships. The competition was tough, but I tried my best," Jeruto said. Her victory came over three weeks after she won at the Kip Keino Classic in Nairobi, timing a then world lead of 9:04.95 to clinch the 3000m steeplechase.