Politicians found inciting the public and stirring ethnic or religious tension risk losing their place on the ballot, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia has said. Macharia spoke during a meeting between gubernatorial candidates, IEBC officials and security officials on Wednesday. The meeting was held at the Lamu county headquarters in Mokowe. The commissioner warned that anyone found culpable of using hate speech and incitement shall be held accountable, arrested and prosecuted. He urged politicians to preach tolerance among their supporters and tone down on harmful rhetoric, adding that security agencies were on high alert “We are working together with IEBC and the NCIC to ensure those found culpable of making divisive or incitement remarks, whether through their active campaigns or social media are not just prosecuted but also lose their place on the ballot,” Macharia said. He said his office will not standby and allow a few politicians to lead the country into destruction because of politics. “We are keeping a close eye on all political events here. No one will lose their life or property because of politics," he said. He said IEBC officials and county security teams have all been sensitised on how to conduct credible campaigns and elections. Macharia assured Lamu residents of adequate security before and after the general election. “Security agencies are also open to working with members of the public to ensure peace prevails across the country,” he said. Macharia reaffirmed that the national government will provide security in all political rallies, especially for female candidates to ensure their safety. Two weeks ago, the IEBC cleared four candidates to run for governor. They include the incumbent Fahim Twaha of Jubilee, former Lamu governor Issa Timamy (ANC), former deputy governor Eric Mugo ( Narc-Kenya) and Umra Omar of Safina. The four candidates unanimously agreed to uphold peaceful campaigns and elections. “It’s of utmost importance for us to remember that peace surpasses every other thing we might fight for and so, we must be careful as we pitch our manifestos during our campaigns," Omar said. "Lamu needs leaders who will preach and practice social cohesion among communities, regardless of their religious or ethnic affiliations." (Edited by Tabnacha O)