An organisation has started planting 1 million eucalyptus trees at Homa Bay prison to provide capital to inmates when their jail terms end. The inmates will care for the trees planted by Green World. The trees will be sold upon maturity and the money given to the prisoners when they finish serving their terms. The programme was launched on Wednesday by Green World secretary general Isaac Otieno, Nema Homa Bay director Josiah Nyandoro and the prison’s farm manager Isaiah Ndege. Otieno said the trees will be planted between June and December. They are expected to mature in three years. He said they had identified Kenya Power and other organisations as buyers. “Green World will purchase the trees when they mature. The money will be given to inmates to start businesses at home when their jail terms end,” Otieno said. He said the objective of the programme is to allow the inmates to practise skills acquired while in prison. “There are many inmates who acquire various skills such as carpentry and other technical skills but they lack capital for starting business ventures. This initiative will give them capital,” Otieno said. Nyandoro said the programme will enhance environmental conservation. He said they also want to increase forest cover, which is still low in Homa Bay. Other partners in the programme are the Homa Bay government, Kenya Commercial Bank, Absa Bank and Equity bank. “Trees are very significant in the conservation of the environment. Trees are a source of money and everybody in the society should plant them,” Nyandoro said. Ndege said the project will help to reduce vices in society. “If an inmate leaves this prison with capital for starting a business venture, their lives will be uplifted and this will reduce crime in society,” he said. Homa Bay Water and Environment executive Dickson Nyawinda said the county will clean streets and collect garbage in Homa Bay town. "Clean environment and proper garbage collection is part of environmental conservation," he said. Green World said it will implement the project in other prisons as well. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya