Two parliamentary candidates from Kitutu Chache South in Kisii have, in a rare show of unity, rejected the proposal by the county to establish a dumpling site in the constituency. They said they would not relent in their protest against the plans by the county government. "On this, we unite to condemn any move by the Governor James Ongwae administration to do so," said Samuel Omwando, who is running on an Independent ticket. Similar sentiments were echoed by Eric Abuga, a UPA candidate seeking the seat. Abuga said he would only back the plan if he is assured of its environmental safety and sustainability and that it will provide employment to the residents. "If they (the county) cannot readily give answers to my concerns and those already raised by our people then I can't accept the project to go on," said Abuga. He further faulted the governor saying he had failed to undertake proper public participation regarding the plan to have a dumpsite site at Nyatieko. "There had been genuine concerns which must be addressed some of which touch on lack of public participation. They still insist that this must be done and be done in an open manner. People need consensus," he told journalists at Nyabundu Seventh Day Adventist church in the constituency during a service. Omwando, who also attended the service, said they would continue rejecting the proposal until a proper re-evaluation is done. "This is not incitement but a thought informed by the realities on the ground. Our people want development not garbage on their doorsteps," he stated. Currently, the county continues to use the Nyambera area, which the court has already asked the county to stop. The land acquired at Nyatieko as a dumping site is near a church, two schools, village settlements and a river, posing danger to the residents. The residents have held a string of protests to express their displeasure against the plan. On Saturday, Samuel Omwando asked Ongwae to have a change of use for the land. "It would be good if they can set up residential houses for the staff," he said. In February, the National Environmental Complaints Committee (NECC) ordered the closure of the dumpsite in Kisii town within six months. Committee chair Lumumba Nyaberi faulted the county for failing to relocate it early as recommended.