The 2022-23 English Premier League fixtures are out and the excitement and talk is already gripping every fanatic’s lips. Crystal Palace host Arsenal on August 5 and this is not just a match but a London derby. Former Arsenal captain Patrick Vieira on his debut as the Crystal Palace manager picked four points against the Gunners and will be seeking to extend this good run on the opening day. A 3-0 win over Mikel Arteta’s charges was a statement that the Eagles will be a force to reckon next season. Champions Manchester City have a tough away fixture against David Moyes’ West Ham. The Hammers are a very tough opponent and this will certainly be a huge test for the Cityzens.  A 2-2 draw on May 15 almost handed over the title to Liverpool and this might be a potential banana skin for Pep Guardiola. City played the whole season of last without a centre-forward but they now have a beast in Erling Haaland. The Norwegian joined City early this month and he is a player many pundits are touting to shine. A good spell in the Bundesliga with Borussia Dortmund have made him a household name and now the question is, how many goals will he score in his debut season? Liverpool, 19-time champions of England once again failed short of a point to capture their 20th title in a season they played in each and every final of the competitions they entered. Klopp’s side travel to Craven Cottage to face Fulham and this is a ground they hate to visit, but, they love opening day fixtures and tip I tip Mo Salah to score in this game. With the confirmation that Divock Origi is gone and Sadio Mane is at the doorstep heading to Bayern Munich, Darwin Nunez, 22, has been drafted in and the Uruguayan will be tasked with replacing the outgoing Senegalese. Both Nunez and Haaland have almost the same traits having had stellar seasons at Benfica and Dortmund respectively. The two will be star attractions in the league. Let’s see who scores more. But I will put my money on Nunez. Manchester United are slowly rebuilding, but for how long? This is a question only Eric ten Hag can answer. A number of signings are in the pipeline, hopefully, they land one or two quality signings... otherwise, they will be in for yet another disappointing season. United host Brighton in the season-opener and this should be an easy fixture for them. For the season I will go with the following as my picks for both individual and team accolades.   Top scorer: Mohamed Salah (Liverpool) Golden glove: Ederson (Manchester City) Top assist: Trent Alexander-Arnold (Liverpool) Premier League Winners: Liverpool Top Four: Liverpool, Manchester City, Tottenham Hotspur, Arsenal