Businessman Kiprop Bundotich Buzeki has told off Deputy President William Ruto’s allies who are urging voters to vote six-piece and ignore independent candidates. Buzeki on Sunday caused a stir Eldoret town soon after he was cleared by the IEBC to vie as an independent candidate for the governor's seat in Uasin Gishu. He was with his running mate Reuben Kipkosgei Chepses. Buzeki addressed several rallies in Eldoret where he defended his decision to vie as an independent candidate, saying it is provided for in the Constitution and he has a right to run. He said the country has more than 7,000 independent aspirants contesting for various seats and the huge number is a major threat to the dominance by political parties that ignore democratic principles. Ruto allies, led by MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr), have been urging Uasin Gishu residents to reject Buzeki and other independent candidates because they are being used to undermine Ruto and UDA. “Some of those opposed to independent candidates are MPs and should legislate to remove such provisions from the law if they don’t want us,” Buzeki, who is making a second stab at the governor's seat, said. He will face UDA candidate Jonathan Bii, popularly known as Koti Moja, in the race to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago. Mandago, who has served two terms as governor, will be running for the Uasin Gishu Senate seat. Buzeki pledged that if elected, he would transform Eldoret into a modern economic hub, where all Kenyans and investors would feel safe to start new projects. He said Eldoret town is shrinking because of policies that do not encourage investments. “Eldoret is not expanding because many people who do business here get money and go to invest it elsewhere instead of expanding or starting new ones within the town. They don’t feel safe to continue investing here,” Buzeki said. He said due to the poor business environment, the county has been forced to raise licence fees and other rates, thereby overtaxing boda boda operators and other traders. “If elected, I will cut all licence fees and other charges by more than 10 per cent and then bring in investors so we create more opportunities for our youth,” Buzeki said. Buzeki said he would only seek his votes without campaigning for any of the presidential candidate. Edited by A.N