Some 294 learners who sat for the 2021 KCPE exam in Bungoma county are still at home, a month after their mates joined Form 1. This is despite Education CS George Magoha's directive to have all learners who sat the KCPE exam proceed to secondary school, for the country to attain 100 per cent transition. The students however attribute the failure to further their education to tough economic times. Principal Secretary for University Education and Research Simon Nabukwesi however said it’s the right of every learner to be in school. He spoke during an interview with the Star on Wednesday in Bungoma county, where he toured several schools. “The government wants every learner to be in school so that in future the country has professionals. If we continue staying with our learners at home, we risk lacking important people in future,” Nabukwesi said. The PS said the government through the Ministry of Education is playing a very important role in ensuring children get quality education, by providing free primary education and paying tuition for secondary. Nabukwesi urged stakeholders in Bungoma to work closely to ensure all learners are in school. “My coming here today is not for granted. I have engaged every education stakeholder in Bungoma to ensure the county serves as an example of 100 per cent transition,” he said. The PS said Bungoma is his home county and he doesn’t encourage laziness in the education sector. He further urged school heads not to send learners who have not paid boarding fees back home. Nabukwesi said due to the short education calendar students should be in school to cover the syllabus. “Teachers need to prepare candidates for the national examination." However, Nabukwesi lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government for putting up Technical Vocational Training Institutes in every subcounty. He said this gives learners who failed to secure university entries a chance to gain technical knowledge that will help them secure self- employment. “Establishing TVETs is a big win as our children can now get knowledge without travelling to far flung counties. Let's embrace them and utilise the opportunities,” the PS said. Nabukwesi also urged parents to advise learners accordingly in relation to the cluster points, while joining universities. He said many learners are applying for the same course in one university. “We can’t accommodate all students at the University of Nairobi. Every university has its cluster points. Let’s revise and read instructions before rushing to apply for courses,” Nabukwesi said. The PS visited Kimaeti Primary School in Bumula and Mupeli DEB, Namachanja Secondary School and Baptist Secondary School in Kanduyi constituency. He said he will still move around in other counties to ensure all learners are in school. Nabukwesi said during his Bungoma tour, more than 50 learners were taken back to school. He asked administrators to join hands and ensure all learners who are still at home go to school. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)