Hit Squad bantamweight pugilist, Isaac Meja, has promised a high-octane performance at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games slated for July. Meja, who locally plies his trade for the Defence Forces Amateur Boxing Association (DEFABA), says he is eager to justify his presence in the team by pulling off a roaring success at the coveted global showpiece. He was a surprise inclusion in the lean eight-member provisional squad summoned to camp by head coach Benjamin Musa a week ago. Meja said he has since been punching furiously on the bag, hoping to make the cut for a dream maiden Commonwealth appearance. “I'm glad I have been considered for the Commonwealth Games. This is a rare opportunity that I hope to capitalize on,” Meja said. Meja said his bush-league performance at the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship in Kinshasa, Congo left him heartbroken after he returned home with an empty basket. “I wasn't pleased with what I achieved at the Africa Zone 3 Championship because I didn't return with a medal," he noted. He, however, treasures the invaluable lessons he gleaned from the Kinshasa outing and has vowed to redress the shortcomings that cost him triumph in his bouts as he eyes a vintage performance this time around. “There are some glaring shortcomings I must first work on before our next tournament. Congo was a great learning experience and I'm indebted to the coaches for naming me to the squad,” Meja said. The Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) corporal extolled the expertise being imparted by the Hit Squad technical bench whose contribution he described as priceless. “We have skilled coaches who are helping us to overcome our weak areas. They have, apparently, benefitted a lot from attending international courses and exchanging ideas with their colleagues from other countries. Meja had to fend off immense struggles and hurdles occasioned by abject poverty in the sprawling Korogocho slums where he cut his teeth as a budding boxer on his way to stardom. He refined his skills at the St. John's Boxing club in the crime-infested area before linking up with St. Teresa's Boxing Club in the neighbouring Mathare shanties. The rest is history.