Homa Bay governor candidate Evans Kidero has told off critics discrediting him because he is running on an independent ticket. He said his critics are spreading propaganda that Homa Bay will be excluded from national government resources and other benefits should he be elected governor. Kidero and ODM’s Gladys Wanga are the two main contenders in the Homa Bay governor race. Mark Rabudi is also seeking the seat on the UDA ticket. Kidero and Wanga are supporting the presidential candidature of Raila Odinga. Raila is the ODM party leader but he is seeking presidency on Azimio–One Kenya coalition. Most ODM candidates, including Wanga, are calling for a six-piece voting pattern to maintain the popularity of the party in Homa Bay. They have also been urging residents to vote for them, saying Raila will have a good working relationship with their governor should their party leader win the presidency. The ODM candidates claim if Kidero wins, his administration will not easily access funds for development. But Kidero rubbished the narrative of getting sidelined. “My opponents have continued to lack agenda for the people of Homa Bay. They now claim Homa Bay will be neglected by the national government if we win. I tell them that we’re not ignorant of the Constitution,” Kidero said. He asked Homa Bay residents to reject Wanga running mate Oyugi Magwanga for giving misleading information. Kidero was speaking on Friday at Rakwaro market during his campaign tours of Wang’ Chieng ward in Karachuonyo constituency. The former Nairobi governor said the two have nothing to offer residents. “MPs like Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu Town East) and Peter Masara (Suan West) and Laikipia Governor Nderitu Muriithi have delivered despite being elected on independent ticket. They shouldn’t mislead us because development depends on the capacity of an individual, not political party,” Kidero said. Kidero asked ODM politicians to join him and focus on how they can make Raila get overwhelming votes in Homa Bay. “Let’s work together in supporting Raila presidential bid despite. That is the bigger picture,” he added. Kidero’s running mate Elijah Kodo and Senate candidates Kenneth Kambona and Tabitha Nyandiek (woman rep) asked residents to elect leaders based on their development agenda and track record. “Voters have in the past made mistakes in choosing political parties. Let the 2022 election be different,” Kodo said. Kidero said if elected, his administration will set up three fish processing factories in Karachuonyo, Homa Bay Town and Mbita to offer market for fishermen in Lake Victoria and create jobs for the youth. Edited by A.N