Huawei Kenya is diving deeper into the renewable energy sector with the launch of new solutions for both homes and enterprises. at this year’s FusionSolar summit that was held in Nairobi. The company made the announcement at the FusionSolar summit which was held in Nairobi on Friday last week. It said it has entered the sector with an initial rollout of a new set of smart solar energy solutions designed for the Kenyan market. The strategic move is informed by a favorable policy environment that includes a progressive National Energy Policy and institutional regulation with the expected establishment of the Rural Electrical and Renewable Energy Authority. "Through our channel partners, we will continue to make solar an alternative energy source and bring more power for Kenyans,” Huawei deputy CEO Wan Wei said. The intelligent solutions enable a low-carbon smart society with clean energy, demonstrating Huawei’s continuous commitment to technological innovation and sustainability. During the summit, Huawei signed a strategic agreement partnership agreement with Rehubco Limited and Nabico Enterprises. Huawei FusionSolar has over 10 years of experience and has remained committed to solving the challenges in the PV industry through continuous innovations. By the end of last year, the tech firm had delivered more than 52 GW of Smart string inverters and over 2 GWh smart string ESS. In East Africa, the company has shipped over 200MW of solar inverters and provided residential solutions for more than 500 households with clean energy. As part of achieving increased use of clean energy in the country, the government has an overall roadmap in a bid to ensure more affordable and sustainable electricity for the country’s growing economy. “Solar PV is playing an increasingly important role in increasing energy access for Kenyans and enhancing the country’s energy security," said Nickson Bukachi, EPRA senior renewable energy officer. He added that there are about 1,000 solar PV licensed companies in the country offering more than 100,000 jobs in Kenya. With Kenya’s current installed solar capacity at just over 100 MW, the opportunity for investment and growth is immense. The country’s positioning as a major solar market is due to a number of factors including affordable solar panels and an abundant supply of panels. Others are over-reliance on expensive fossil fuels and the unstable nature of both hydro and wind power generation.