Experts have time and again said that skin care helps our skin stay in good condition. Having a mineral-based sunscreen with an SPF of 30 and above is very essential, whether it is a cold or sunny day. Avoid basking in the sun for too long. It is recommended that you sunbathe for a maximum of 10 to 30 minutes to avoid getting sunburns or dehydrated skin. Whether you have oily to dry skin, having a good moisturizer is essential. Dr. Saini says that a moisturizer helps to lock in the moisture that is already present in the outer layer of our skin. “Go for a moisturizer that helps in hydration but at the same time, keeps oil secretion in check,” she told the Star during a past interview. If your skin is prone to acne, try making changes to your diet. According to Nairobi-based dermatologist Dr. Roop Saini, having a balanced, healthy diet will not only help preserve your smooth skin but will also help your body all around. Do not forget to drink water. First, you need to know your skin type before you buy any form of makeup or skin care products. We don’t want to use products that can harm our skin in the long run. Consult your dermatologist to know what products are best for your skin. In fact, a person caught sleeping in makeup should be arrested. Just kidding. But you sleep in makeup, you forget to wash the pillowcase, then again tomorrow after your skincare, you sleep on the same pillowcase. Residual makeup causes oils, powders, chemicals, and bacteria to accumulate on your pillow which may cause breakouts. According to dermatology consultants, sleeping with makeup can also prevent the skin from much-needed renewal. This results in unhealthy collagen breakdown, which may result in acne, wrinkles and fine lines over time. The sooner you start using anti-aging products early, the less likely you will develop fine lines, wrinkles, and dark spots. Start as early as in your 20s to maintain and slow down the aging process and delay the onset. They call it beauty sleep for a reason. According to WebMD, if you are getting fewer than 6 hours, it is likely affecting your appearance, says Michael Breus, Ph.D., a board-certified sleep specialist. Start getting 1 to 3 more hours of sleep, and you could see some improvement in as little as a day. Keep it up, and “within 2 to 3 weeks, people will notice that you are sleeping better by the way you look,” Breus says. Be sure to always remove makeup before sleeping so that moisturizing and anti-aging products can take effect. Prevention is better than correction since you are shedding skin cells throughout the day, keeping your skin in good condition is an effective plan to prevent acne, treat wrinkles and keep your skin looking at its best. This helps to keep the blood flowing to your skin, and it is an important step after your skin care. Experts suggest that popping pimples is bad for our skin as it not only leaves scars, but also may spread the pimple and make it more inflamed and noticeable.