Fresh from winning the 800m race in the Ostrava continental meeting on Tuesday, World Under-20 champion Emmanuel Wanyonyi is seeking to continue his good form at the Diamond League meeting on Sunday in Rabat. Wanyonyi has been in fine form on the track this year, winning his specialty during the Kip Keino Classic on home soil in 1:45:01 and then posting 1:44.15 in Ostrava. Wanyonyi will face an acid test in Rabat as he lines up against Olympic champion Emmanuel Korir and silver medallist Ferguson Rotich. Collins Kipruto and Michael Saruni will also be in the line-up to upset the form book in the two-lap race. Former Olympic 800 m  silver medallist Nigel Amos of Botswana will also be in contention alongside Frenchman Gabriel Tubal and Morocco's Smaili Mostafa in what is expected to be a competitive race. Abel Kipsang, who has two victories in 1,500m under his belt in the Diamond League this campaign with wins in Doha and Birmingham, will be the favourite in the Moroccan city. Kipsang clocked 3:35.16 in Birmingham and 3:35.70 in Doha and has looked like the man to beat in the competition. Kipsang will be up against Paulson Williams (Canada), Mohammed Katir (Spain), and Jake Wightman (Great Britain). Two-time 3000m steeplechase world champion Consenslus Kipruto makes a return to the track after almost a two-year hiatus from the track. Kipruto, who missed out on the Olympic Games last year, is seeking a return to form with the World Championship in Eugene, Oregon next month. He, however, faces a daunting task when he lines up against Olympic champion Mekhissi Mahediene of France, silver medalist Lamecha Girma and bronze medallist Benjamin Kigen alongside Abraham Kibiwott. Home favourite Soufiane Bakkali will be banking on the fans to cheer him to victory. Others to look out for, include Hilary Bor of the USA and Ethiopia's Takele Nigate. Former Commonwealth Games 5,000m champion Mercy Cherono faces an acid test in the 3000m  as she takes on inform Francine Niyonsaba of Burundi. Others to look out for include Abebe Tsiyon of Ethiopia and  Australia's Davis Rose Mary Moraa, Naomi Korir and Jarinter Mwasya have been entered for the 800metres, where they face South African Prudence Sekgodiso. Tigist Girma of Ethiopia and France's Renelle Lamote will also be in contention.