After a fun exciting weekend, the last thing that you would want is a bad hangover. From having a throbbing headache, churning stomach, loss of appetite, and dry mouth, the symptoms can be unbearable. The good news is some foods can reduce the symptoms slightly and make the next day more tolerable. Yes, that is right. Experts say Coconut water is one of the most hydrating fluids you can drink. This is because one of the main culprits of a hangover is dehydration. Coconut water contains can help rehydration and aid the breakdown of alcohol in the body. The feeling of nausea can be a buzz kill. Ginger has been used for centuries to help treat nausea, and scientific research seems to back up this benefit. Ginger may also have a long-lasting effect on the body as some studies tentatively suggest it helps to treat alcohol fatty liver disease. The easiest way to have it is to grate around a thumbnail length and swallow it with some water. If you wonder why people take lime after a shot it is because limes can improve the body’s ability to make an enzyme that speeds up the breakdown of any alcohol left in your system. The enzyme is called alcohol dehydrogenase. Unfortunately, eating a lime by itself with a nauseous stomach might be a bit too much. Instead, mix some lime juice into water or coconut water to get the hydrating benefits and improved alcohol breakdown. Spinach and kale (Sukumawiki) are other types of food that can help break down alcohol by increasing alcohol dehydrogenase production. They contain significant levels of magnesium and potassium, which can be low after a night on the drink. Studies also show that leafy greens could help liver health in the long term, meaning that as a regular part of your diet, your liver may be more efficient at removing alcohol from your body. Eat your eggs Eating eggs the morning after provides energy like any other food but they also contain large amounts of cysteine, which helps mop up leftover toxins. Ensure the eggs are not overcooked for extra benefits.