ODM leader Raila Odinga has assured his supporters of victory in the August 9, polls Raila made the remarks while addressing rallies at Nyamarambe and Etago Stadium, Kisii county, on Monday. He urged the people of the Nyanza region to rally behind him. He said Kenya was on a threshold of a new dawn, to liberate itself from disease, poverty and ignorance or be doomed to inept leadership. He, however, said the real liberation would come if voting is done wisely come August. The Azimio manifesto, he observed, puts a priority on the poor and the struggling peasant and thus the need to be given a chance at leadership. Odinga's administration would also set up industries across the counties to aid in value addition and partly address unemployment among the youth. "It is on this premise that we are talking about the soapstone plant in Tabaka here in Kisii. A similar investment will be done on coffee, tea and other crops in other parties to boost our farmers' earnings," the ODM party boss said. As a president he would continue to remain committed to ensuring Kenya has free education from the primary school level, colleges and universities stated Odinga. "Investment in this sector would be deliberate and is part of our broad concerted efforts to confront the ravages of ignorance, "he said Women, the jua kali and bodaboda sectors would be lifted when he becomes president. He would too ensure his Baba care health care scheme is being rolled out to benefit the majority of elderly who are struggling to make ends meet. Widows and single mothers also stand to benefit if he is elected president, said Odinga. Karua asked Kenyans to exercise diligence in sifting truth and fake campaign promises during this electioneering period. "We are in that moment that voters should know who will represent their aspirations up there and vote according," said Karua. Agriculture CS Peter Munya told farmers that Odinga has guaranteed them a safe landing when he wins. Many of the political leaders present said they would continue to rally their electorate in their respective places to vote in Odinga as president. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino on his part endorsed Simba Arati to be Governor in Kisii. He also told the electorate to back Odinga to make his dream of being the country's fifth president a reality.