Malkia Strikers' captain Mercy Moim wants the national team players to rise to the occasion and relieve pressure off Sharon Chepchumba who has single-handedly carried the team in the past assignments. Moim, who is the most capped player in Malkia, landed in Brazil on Monday morning for a two-month High-Performance training. Moim said she wants the junior players to savour their chances in the World Championships. The quadrennial show is slated for September 25 to October 15  and will be co-hosted by the Netherlands and Poland. At 23, the Kenya Commercial Bank opposite hitter Chepchumba is crucial both at the club and national level. The Trans-Nzoia native has been linked with a move away from KCB but wants to sort her career future after the World Championships. "It is not about Chepchumba since volleyball is a team sport. Her talent has placed her where she is now but the team shouldn't be over-reliant on her. Every player must accept responsibility and play for the badge," said Moim. She added: "We are lucky to have many young players on the team. This is the time to prove that their inclusion was not by accident. They will have the right platform and structures in Brazil and Serbia and hopefully, they'll return home as better players." Veronicah Kilabat, Emmaculate Nekesa, Meldinah Sande, Belinda Barasa and Magdaline Mwende are all itching for their Malkia debut. Malkia are in Pool 'A' alongside European champions Italy, hosts Netherlands, Belgium, Puerto Rico and Cameroon in the 19th edition of the championship. Coach Paul Bitok is targeting to beat Cameroon and Purto Rico on the world stage in a bid to sail to the second round. She, however,  warned against underrating any opponent. "It's not about Cameroon or Puerto Rico. As you know Puerto Rico is a very good team. They don't appear most of the time in big tournaments because they meet with powerhouse US in the qualifiers. We met with them in the Grand Prix and they are not to be taken for granted," she noted. "Cameroon are no pushovers either as much as they are rebuilding. We have to tackle each team with the right mentality with the sole purpose of getting a result," she added. Malkia's 10-day stop in Serbia will see the team play friendly matches with the hosts  and Colombia with Mozzert bet footing all expenses.