Calls for tolerance during this year’s elections dominated the prayer service convention for security officers drawn from four counties in Southern Nyanza region. Speaker after speaker asked all parties involved in the forthcoming general election to embrace peace as the key way of promoting integration in the society. Director Chaplaincy Counselling and Psychosocial support in the National Police Service Vincent Makokha, Chaplain of Kenya Prisons Fr Peter Kimani and Director of Reforms at the NPS Eliud Lagat called for a common understanding among all the parties in the elections. The officials were hosted by Homa Bay county DCI officer Abed Kavoo. Makokha said security officers will enhance peaceful coexistence should they remain committed and undertake their duties without personal interest. Police play a big role of providing security to people and manning election materials. Kenyans are expected to go into general election on August 9. “National Police Service had its image tainted in the previous elections because of the way some of us carried themselves. We must remain tolerant to each other and redeem ourselves in the forthcoming general election,” Makokha said. Addressing the security officers during this year’s thanksgiving service at St Paul’s Catholic Church in Homa Bay town on Friday, Makokha assured the officers of government's support. The uniformed and disciplined officers hailed from the Kenya Police, Administration Police, Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, National Youth Service and Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Four counties making Southern Nyanza are Homa Bay, Kisii, Migori and Nyamira. Fr Kimani prayed for patience and asked the security officers to remain neutral when discharging their duties. He argued that conflict of interests has seen security officers take sides during elections. “Police officers should know they are the agent of peace between politicians and voters. We must destroy enmity and hatred by embracing peace and helping one another,” Kimani said. Lagat urged the security officers to undertake their work without fear or favour, adding that they would want Kenyans to continue with their businesses smoothly after elections. “Elections are ahead of us and therefore we must remain vigilant and ensure we do the right thing. Let’s remain committed to the oath of allegiance,” Lagat said. Kavoo asked for continuous coordination and working together to realise their objectives. “We all want peaceful elections because we still need to live after the elections,” he said. 