Tension is high in Badasa after a herder was killed by armed bandits who stole more than 60 cattle. Kotol Dida, 40, was shot dead while herding cattle in Marsabit forest, a few kilometers from Badasa on Sunday evening. Badasa residents on Monday protested the killing saying it happened while Operation Rejesha Amani Marsabit is ongoing. They said four people have been killed since the security operation begun. Leaders led by Governor Mohammud Ali, however, asked residents to be calm and give security agencies space to investigate and arrest all those involved in the attack. Saku MP candidate Halkano Dida Wako said security agencies need to speed up their probe to prevent revenge attacks. "The speed at which security agents respond will determine the trajectory of the attack," he said. Wako said security agencies drag their feet when investigating such killings. He said despite efforts by the multi- agency security teams in the county, the killing had caused a setback that must not be allowed to gain ground. Sagante Jaldesa MCA candidate Amos Wako said they are saddened by the continuous killings, despite an ongoing security operation. "We have surrendered all our arms to the government and this exposed us to our enemies," he said. Badasa resident Boru Dida said they are living in fear as their grazing zones have turned into hiding grounds for criminals. He said they can't herd their animals for fear of being ambushed by bandits. County commissioner Paul Rotich while confirming the incident said residents should maintain calm and desist from any actions capable of triggering further violence, as security agencies pursue the attackers. "No recovery has been made so far but our officers are in hot pursuit of the bandits. We are appealing to residents to remain calm as security agencies intensify efforts to restore normalcy," he said. The government launched Operation Rejesha Amani Marsabit to flush out criminals and disarm civilians of illegal firearms. In the last one and half months, more than 200 guns and 3,000 ammunitions have been recovered. The operation is being led by security teams drawn from the GSU, the Rapid Deployment Unit, the Quick Response Unit and the Anti Stock Theft Unit. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)