A section of Kenya Kwanza leaders has accused state agencies of bias following the violent incident that rocked Deputy President William Ruto’s rally at Jacaranda grounds in Nairobi on Sunday. Led by ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula, the leaders said state officials and agencies tasked with curbing crime have not acted on the incident, more than 24 hours later. They particularly took issue with Interior CS Fred Matiangi, PS Karanja Kibicho, and NCIC for not swinging into action to probe the incident that threatened the life of the DP and other leaders. “When there was a stoning incident in Uasin Gishu against the chopper that Raila had landed in, none other than the DP himself came out openly and condemned the incident immediately the matter became public,” Mudavadi said. “The DP was stoned in Kisumu and nobody said anything about it. There was an incident in Kenol, in Murang’a, again it was brushed aside.” The ANC boss asked whether the attacks are part of the wider scheme to disrupt the upcoming elections and stop voters from freely exercising their rights at the ballot. “When someone was so quiet, Shakespeare was asking, which cat has eaten their tongue? Which cat has eaten NCIC’s tongue? Because they are not talking,” Mudavadi posed. The leaders addressed a press conference at Musalia Mudavadi Center in Westlands. They were flanked by former Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Vihiga woman representative Beatrice Adagala, former LSK President Nelson Havi, and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali. “Now we are asking ourselves is there a very concerted effort in this one and a half months to the election date where a systematic incident of violence is going to be witnessed, then in the process scare away voters and undermine a free and fair election?” he posed. Wetangula said that it was worrying that nothing has been done about the jacaranda violence that directly threatened the life of the DP. “Matiangi, who is normally very quick to even respond to no issues has said nothing about the event of yesterday. They are still containing scars damaged,” he said. “We want to see the swift action that we have seen in the previous incident taken when such incidences like yesterdays occur, being done regardless of the name, stature or rank of an individual.” h.