More than 100 youths and women's leaders have signed Mkenya Daima peace pledges in Nairobi ahead of the August 9 polls. The youths and women's representatives signed the declaration during a sustainable peace summit on Tuesday. The summit was organised by the Commonwealth Youth Peace Ambassadors Network in collaboration with Plan International and Bridge Africa. CYPAN Kenya chairperson Mercy Mutana said the convention was meant to educate youths on the importance of maintaining peace before, during and after the August 9, election. More than 300 youths, women, PLWDs, including students attended the two-day event. They were all requested to volunteer as ambassadors of peace. "The role of CYPAN in the partnership is to champion youth peace advocacy. Plan International is keen on championing women safety, while Bridge Africa is tasked with students peace advocacy, " Mutana said. The 22-year-old student at University of Nairobi addressed the press at the sidelines of the summit. "I publicly express my commitment to uphold the Mkenya Daima spirit of good leadership and accountable governance, as aligned to the Constitution of Kenya especially chapter 6, which speaks to leadership and integrity. "Also, to inspiring a peaceful and fair 2022 general election process for a prosperous, thriving and peaceful country, Kenya," the peace pledge reads. Those who signed the document included leaders of 25 groups that were represented in the meeting. Mutana said their discussions focused on youth, peace and security. She said at least 25 groups committed towards grassroots peace building. "We are advocates of peace, particularly pushing the SDG 16 agenda of peace, justice and strong institutions. Our two key pillars in electioneering period are peace and democracy. "We want to see youths participate actively in peace advocacy. An NCIC report shows Nairobi is among the top six hot spot counties. That's why we chose Nairobi for the Kenya's sustainable peace summit," Mutana said. The summit brought together participants from various backgrounds including experts, political aspirants, professionals and those from informal settlements. Ngei MCA candidate Njeri Ng’ang’a told the youth not to sit on the information and instead be ambassadors of peace in their communities. The Umoja Summit candidate said it is high time youths desist from being politically misused not only for their own benefit but also to prevent the country from getting to political turmoil. "Educate the public on what you have learnt from this convention about the importance of peace. It’s your responsibility as young people, don’t sit on the information,” Ng’ang’a said. The candidate urged the youth to reject leaders who give them handouts to insult, attack or cause violence against their opponents. She also told the youth not to lose hope in life as the future is bright. Ng’ang’a said the youths should be focused and work hard to make a difference in society, as she did herself. “I also struggled in slums like you, but I refused to be politically misused. I made it at last and I have a charitable organisation that supports the less privileged by donating sanitary towels to vulnerable girls from humble backgrounds,” she said. The candidate said there would be no violence in the country, if all youth said no to violence. “As youths we need to change the narrative and mindsets of our brothers, sisters, cousins, relatives and even parents. We need to have peace. “Don’t be misused. Usipojituma, utatumwa ama utumiwe (If you don't take the initiative you will be misused),” Ng’ang’a said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)