The second Nairobi County Assembly has come to an end after the house proceeded on indefinite recess for the general election. Its sine die recess  means there is no specific return date. Assembly speaker Benson Mutura said last week, however, the MCAs would be recalled if any important matter rises. He said a special session is likely to pass the budget for FY 2022-23. “In the current circumstances, the general elections are scheduled for August 9. As such, as we adjourn sine die today [but] the  term of the second assembly shall continue until August 9, 2022, meaning the sixth session shall lapse on that date," he said last week. Since the beginning of the second county assembly, which started in September 2017, 23 bills have been passed, 326 substantive and procedural motions have been passed and 293 statements were requested. Giving his last speech in office, Mutura thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga for believing in him to serve as the third speaker of the assembly during a critical time. On August 14, 2020, the former Makadara MCA became the third speaker after winning the election with 99 votes. The position had become vacant following the resignation of Beatrice Elachi. Since then, Mutura has served as the speaker and the chairman of the County Assembly Service Board. "When I assumed office in August 2020 I found a divided House and I managed to bring together all factions and we leave a united assembly,” he said. "I am proud of what we have achieved as a house under my leadership,” Mutura said. MCAs will return for a special sitting to pass the budget for 2022-23. The assembly's Finance, Budget and Appropriations committee had not completed the budget-making process by the time it adjourned. Mutura said the Robert Mbatia-led committee is harmonising estimates to conform to sector requirements and the County Allocation of Revenue Bill passed by the Senate. “Once the committee returns with their report next week, we shall invoke Standing Order 30 and convene a special sitting to consider and approve the estimates,” Mutura said. (Edited by V. Graham)