Break-ins and theft are on the rise in Lari constituency, Kiambu county, deputy county commissioner James Kamau has said. He said the areas most affected are villages in Kinale ward and Kimende town and its environs. Kamau said a case of house or shop break-in is reported every two weeks. “Within a period of two weeks, a report has to be made that either a shop or a house has been broken into and property stolen,” he said on Wednesday. Kinale trader John Waweru said a gang of thugs broke into his shop, ate cakes, loaves of bread and drank sodas before leaving. “My shop was broken into and no money was stolen. I normally hide money in a safe. However, the thugs ate cakes, bread and drank sodas and packed milk. They also carted away sweets, and maize and wheat flour,” he said. In Kimende, thieves stole money from a butchery and ate leftover boiled meat. They also stole pans, a meko and a burner. “The manner in which the thugs are stealing indicates that they are hungry and are locals. They know each and every one in this area,” Robert Njenga, a trader in Kimende, said. Kamau warned gang members to change their ways as investigations are going on and action will be taken against those found culpable. He said they have received the names of suspects. The administrator urged residents to give his office, the police, chiefs and assistant chiefs information regarding security to reduce crime in the area. He said the subcounty has 25 chiefs and 45 assistant chiefs, adding that nearly all villages have government administrators manning about 5,000 people. “Help us to secure our subcounty. Let us join hands in securing each other, provide us with information. Our officers have been trained well on how to deal with information secretly, they cannot reveal who gave them that information” Kamau said. “Let us profile all the suspects we have in our villages and by so doing, we shall reduce those cases of insecurity.” “However, we thank all security stakeholders since despite those cases in Kimende and Kinale, the rest of the region has not had serious cases of insecurity” he said. Edited by A.N