Machakos county commissioner Rhoda Onyancha has told politicians to share their daily campaign itinerary with police for their safety. “As you campaign, inform ward commanders where your campaigns will be so as not to clash on campaign grounds,” she said. The commissioner spoke during the 59th Madaraka Day celebrations at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Wednesday. She said there are likelihoods politicians and their supporters could clash, if one or two met at the same venue during campaigns. “We should be aware of your campaign schedules so that we protect you and your supporters,” Onyancha said. The commissioner however cautioned politicians against misusing youth to cause violence against their opponents. She also said the youth should reject being politically misused by politicians before, during and after polls. “Those you fight for don’t know you. I have worked in volatile areas where several youths lost their lives due to political misuse. "In Rift Valley where I earlier served, it was difficult even for us to ensure peace during the 2007-08 post-election violence, we lost lots of youths,” Onyancha said. She said the youth should be peace ambassadors and friendly despite differences in political affiliations or candidates. Onyancha said in the Kiambu parliamentary by-elections youths affiliated to Jubilee and UDA parties engaged in friendly campaigns. She said they even shook hands after the exercise was concluded and a candidate elected. The commissioner said it is painful for families to lose children especially those in reproductive ages to political violence. “We love you, you are our tomorrow. Don’t be politically misused and get injured, amputated or die due to politics,” she said. Onyancha further lauded the Machakos security team led by police commander Issa Mohammud and National Government Administration Officers for ensuring heightened security across the county. “I thank the security apparatus for their contribution to the county’s security. Many a times we don’t recognise and appreciate our police officers. They don’t sleep to ensure citizens and their property are safe,” she said. The commissioner also said the public should cooperate with security agencies and volunteer intelligence information to help curb crime. She called for peaceful campaigns and election saying as a government, they will ensure all aspirants get level playing field to sell their manifesto to the electorate. Onyancha further said the county was making strides in the war against drugs and illicit brew but had to step up the fight. “Chiefs and police are doing a good job. We are in hot pursuit of known drug peddlers in Machakos. NGAO and the National Police Service will continue the crackdown to rid the county of drugs and illicit brew,” she said. The commissioner also cautioned politicians against intoxicating the youth to cause chaos against their opponents. She said three out of five youths in Machakos smoke bhang. Onyancha said the public through nyumba kumi initiative and community policing should also join the war by giving information to relevant authorities. “Our police officers will give you support. Let’s work together to fight drugs and illicit brew,” she said. The commissioner also issued warnings against those involved in outlawed slot gambling machines and scrap metal trade. She said the ban on scrap metal trade is still in force and those found engaging in the business will be dealt with. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)