Kitui County Governor Charity Ngilu has said Roots party presidential candidate George Wajakoyah has raided Deputy President William Ruto's perceived demographic. In a statement on Saturday, Ngilu said Azimio's win is not determined solely by its strongholds but also by the areas Kenya Kwanza is losing support. She said the Ruto-led Kenya Kwanza is losing ground each passing day adding that Wajackoyah is likely to dominate in groups they have claimed they enjoy massive support. "It’s not so much the Azimio surge and consolidation of key bases. It also the rapid momentum with which Kenya Kwisha are ceding ground they previously comfortably occupied like Mt Kenya," she tweeted. "Even Wajackoyah is now threatening their assumed key demographic of 18-30 and partakers of marijuana." Wajackoyah has in recent days gained popularity among the youth after selling his sensational ideas of transforming Kenya to the people. Among his controversial pledges is bhang and snake farming which he said will transform the country's economy. "We are introducing snake farming in the country so that we can extract snake poison for the purposes of medication. A lot of people are bitten by snakes in this country and you have to wait for doses from outside the country through pharmaceutical cooperation," he said in an interview with a local TV on Wednesday. Recent opinion polls released by Infotrak show Azimio leader Raila Odinga has control of six regions while Kenya Kwanza's William Ruto is the key candidate in three. Infotrak also found that 20 counties support Raila while 16 favoured Ruto and 11 are still battlegrounds. Kenya Kwanza was seen to have lost four points of support to Azimio, as it recorded a 38 per cent support, while Raila's Coalition got 42. Undecided voters in Mt Kenya increased from 14 per cent to 20 per cent, while in North Rift they surged from 13 per cent to 23 per cent. In Western Kenya, there was an increase of undecided voters from 19 per cent to 23 per cent, the polls showed. In total, 20 per cent of voters are undecided.