Nairobi residents are divided on whether Nairobi governor candidate Johnson Sakaja's degree is valid or not, a new survey by TIFA Research has revealed. With only 48 days to the August 9 elections, the poll indicates that supporters of the two main presidential candidates are divided over the authenticity of Senator Sakaja’s degree. Those in favour of William Ruto’s presidency, 61 per cent, believe Sakaja has a valid degree, 14 per cent do not agree, and 25 per cent are undecided. 54 per cent of those in favour of Raila Odinga‘s presidency believe Sakaja lacks a valid degree, 14 per cent believe he has the right papers while 33 per cent don't know what to believe in. “By total, supporters of the two main presidential candidates, Nairobians are almost evenly divided as to the authenticity of Senator Sakaja’s Uganda university degree, there is a sharp contrast between supporters of the two main presidential candidates," reads the polls. Overall, at least 36 per cent of Nairobi voters believe that the incumbent Senator does not have a valid degree while 29 per cent believe his degree from Team University in Uganda is valid. “A plurality 36 per cent vs 29 per cent do not believe that Sakaja has a valid university degree ( as claimed, from Uganda may yet undermine his lead, though more information about this issue may emerge as the DCI continues to investigate it,” reads the polls. Those in support of Sakaja’s governor bid, 53 per cent believe his Ugandan degree is valid, with 20 per cent believing it is fake. The data was collected through a telephonic survey with each call taking seven minutes. 632 respondents were polled in the research conducted on June 20, 2022. The poll had a margin error of +/- 3.8 per cent. However, Sakaja who is United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidate is still the most preferred candidate for the Nairobi governor seat, with 40 per cent of respondents supporting his bid. He is closely followed by Azimio la Umoja- One Kenya flagbearer Polycarp Igathe at 32 per cent. "Regarding the gubernatorial and senatorial contests, the former is now a much closer race than it was two months ago, with Senator Johnstone Sakaja of UDA only slightly ahead of his main opponent, Jubilee’s Polycarp Igathe (40 per cent vs. 32 per cent)," reads the poll.