Kenya Kwanza presidential hopeful William Ruto now says borrowing money to run the government will not be an option for his government. Ruto divulged that while the Azimio coalition led by Raila Odinga is planning to continue with massive borrowing of loans, theirs is about exploiting available local options to generate income. "We will change this tradition of applying for loans and be all about investments and labour-intensive programs as opposed to capital-intensive projects," he said on Friday while at a campaign rally in Kamulu, Nairobi. At the same time, the DP said his government will help increase property owners in Nairobi. Ruto said they will lower the cost of construction to help achieve the goal. "Tutasaidiana na wale wanajenga manyumba Nairobi. Badala ya wewe mwananchi kulipa rent ya elf nane kila siku utalipa mortgage ya elfu nane baada ya miaka kumi ama kumi na tano nyumba inakuwa yako. Hakuna haja ya wewe kupanga nyumba miaka yote," he said. Loosely translates to, "We will help those that are building houses in Nairobi. Instead of paying a rent of Sh8,000 every day, you will pay a mortgage of Sh8,000 and after 10 or 15 years, the house will be yours. There is no need for you to be paying rent forever". Ruto said the local housing program will help all those that are going to be constructing houses in Nairobi and across Kenya at large. "This is so we can make sure that many Kenyans are building houses and increasing ownership of property in Kenya by the majority of the citizens of our great country," he said. Ruto who was on a campaign trail in Nairobi said he will help jua kali employees attain maximum production. "We will change the name to manufacturing because that is where we do the heavy production. We are going to use the jua kali sector to create the industrial revolution in our country," he said. The UDA flagbearer also promised to build stalls for the jua kali workers who work in temporary roadside makeshift shops to help them attain maximum production. "We want to do value addition, agro-processing and increase our wealth. We will get rid of poverty and build a Kenya we are all proud of," Ruto said. He said this is to ensure that the common Kenyan accumulates wealth. He also said it will help solve the ever-present unemployment issue facing the youth. The DP has pledged that his government will set aside Sh100 billion fund which will support millions of youth by giving them capital to start businesses and create jobs for themselves.