Nairobi governor candidate Polycarp Igathe can now breathe a sigh of relief after the IEBC disputes tribunal dismissed a case challenging his candidature. In a ruling delivered on Wednesday, the tribunal said the allegations presented by the petitioner-George Bush are not supported by any evidence. Wambua Kilonzo, who read the ruling on behalf of commissioners Irene Masit and Justus Nyang'aya, said the voter failed to provide the committee with sufficient evidence to support his case. Kilonzo said while the allegations presented touch on abuse of office by the state officer under Article 193 (2) of the Constitution, the complainant did not prove that the candidate had misused or abused his office or had been found to be in contravention of chapter six of the Constitution. "In our view, we hold that such serious matters can only be proven in a court of law," he stated. He said, "Anyone who desires to have the court give judgement as to any legal right must prove that those facts exist." The committee further found that the complaint was filed way after the candidate had been cleared. The Nairobi voter last week challenged the clearance of Igathe by the IEBC to contest the governor seat in the August polls. In a complaint lodged at the IEBC Dispute Resolution committee by George Bush, the voter wanted Igathe disqualified from the forthcoming elections on grounds of abdicating of official duties as the duly elected deputy governor of Nairobi county for the period 2017-2022. "Igathe having been duly elected the deputy governor of Nairobi City County in the 2017 general election, deliberately refused to execute the duties of the office, abdicated his office and eventually walked out of office never to return again without even tendering his resignation. What followed was an unprecedented constitutional crisis and suffering for the great people of Nairobi county, " read his complaint. However, when Bush confessed before the IEBC dispute resolution committee (DRC) on Monday that he had no evidence which can be used to bar Igathe from vying for the seat. He told the committee presided over by Wambua Kilonzo that he had no tangible evidence that Igathe abdicated his duties as Deputy Governor to Mike Sonko. With the petition dismissed, Igathe will be launching his manifesto before the end month. The governor candidate disclosed that the manifesto will be basic and purely based on service delivery for the people. With his deputy Phillip Kaloki, the duo have been engaging with Nairobi residents on a personal level in an attempt of understanding what the voters desire from the next county government leadership. Igathe said that his administration will be all-inclusive once he gets into office. If elected Nairobi’s fourth Governor, Igathe said he will continue from where Nairobi Metropolitan Services will have left with development.