MP candidates in Thika, Kiambu county, are planning to hold a joint peace caravan ahead of the polls. The peace meeting will be organised by the subcounty security committee headed by deputy county commissioner Mbogo Mathioya. Mathioya lauded the politicians for the initiative, saying they will work with them to ensure that peace prevails. “There have been three incidents of chaos during the campaigns where several people were injured, robbed and vehicles stoned. This initiative by the candidates is timely and we will assist them to ensure campaigns are conducted peacefully," he said. Candidate Njeri Githanga said there have been instances where opponents have confronted each other during campaigns, leading to hatred among supporters. “We have witnessed incidences where candidates have clashed during their vote-hunting missions and this is a concern ahead of the polls," she said. "We want a peaceful electioneering period devoid of chaos that could lead to loss of lives, injuries or destruction of properties." Njeri said they decided to shelve their political differences to preach peace in the region because any disruption will hurt businesses in the industrial town. “We are coming up with a movement called Thika First because we all believe that Thika is bigger than seasonal elections. We don’t want our actions to frustrate businesses in this region,” she said. Njeri said the candidates have agreed to support whoever wins in the August 9 elections for the sake of development. “Residents living in the semi-arid part of the constituency are still grappling with challenges like poor roads, lack of sufficient water and inadequate health facilities. We all have a common goal of providing solutions to these challenges,” she said. Juma Hemedi and Jane Kamunge, who are also eyeing the MP seat, said they are rooting for peace and an end to confrontational politics. “We won’t divide our people because of politics. Instead, we will advise them to make wise decisions at the ballot by voting development-oriented leaders,” Kamunge said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)