The Kisumu county government has insisted that no politicians will be allowed to hold rallies within the City’s CBD and its environs. Acting City manager Abala Wanga said action will be taken against those who defy the directive. “You will be teargassed if you dare come to hold rallies in the CBD,” Wanga said on Tuesday at Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong’o’s campaign secretariat office. Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma accompanied by Senator Fred Outa and former speaker Onyango Oloo were teargassed by police as they made their way to CBD. Ranguma, who is backed by Outa, Oloo and former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura, seeks to recapture the seat from Nyong’o. But Wanga said even Nyong’o has been advised and aware that politicians have been barred from holding rallies in the restricted areas. “That’s is why you saw the governor’s convoy wet through Nyalenda, Kondele, Obunga to Kirembe for a rally after being cleared by the IEBC to seek re-election,” he said. Wanga said the restriction targets to facilitate the ongoing transformation of the City through urban aesthetics. This, according to the city manager, was being threatened by vandalism and the destruction of public property during the campaign rallies. Wanga said the City management shall designate areas for political gatherings outside the CBD. He pointed out that they have reported cases of vandalism and property damage after the political gatherings. Wanga warned against any non-compliance, adding that any politician violating the notice will be apprehended. But Ranguma’s team have read malice over the directive saying it was targeted at them to curtail them from wooing voters for his bid. In response to Wanga’s directive, Oloo said the freedom of movement is enshrined in the constitution and they have the right access Kisumu’s CBD. “We come in peace but Wanga should be prepared in case they want to curtail our freedom of movement,” he said. The former Kisumu speaker said freedom of movement is an inalienable right and even the state cannot deprive citizens of it. He called on the national government especially the security agency to advise Nyong’o and Wanga on issues of national security. “We don’t want police to appear to be used in denying residents the right to freedom of movement,” Oloo said. He questioned where candidates contesting for Market/Milimani and Railways wards which are right in the CBD will campaign following the directive. “Residents in these wards are voters and they should evaluate the policies of every politician to make wise decisions on the ballot. How will we reach them if were being restricted illegally?” Oloo poised. He advised Wanga to read and understand the 2010 Constitution, especially on the freedom of movement before issuing such an illegal directive. “It is laughable the calibre of incompetent people that Nyong’o has appointed and entrusted with the administration of a public institution. This shows you the kind of pain the people of Kisumu have been going through,” he said. Wanga, Oloo said, cannot and will not curtail their freedom of movement in search of votes to ensure we send them home. “I only pity Nyong’o for appointing people of Wanga’s calibre to a public institution who even don’t understand the Constitution of the Republic of Kenya. It shows the level of ignorance and illiteracy,” he added.