The Supreme Court has opened sub registries in Mombasa and Kisumu to ease the filing of cases and enhance access to justice. In a statement on Wednesday, Chief Justice Martha Koome said the opening of the registries is also aimed at easing the workload at the Nairobi registry. "The Court has been in operation for ten years. In those years, the workload of the Court has been steadily growing," Koome said. She said the move is in line with the Court's second Strategic Plan 2020 – 2024 to enhance access to justice and effectively discharge its mandate. "Towards this end, the Court planned to open up its services to other strategic cities, other than the seat of the Court," the CJ said. The sub-registries will receive all filings from litigants and transmit urgent matters and files to the Court’s Central Registry in Nairobi. Koome explained that all matters, in which the Court has jurisdiction can be filed in the sub-registries, except presidential petitions, which for logistical reasons must be filed at the seat of the Court in Nairobi. She said filings at the Court must be both in electronic form and hard copies in tandem with the Rules of the Court. "Therefore, parties and advocates who file their matters in the sub-registries must familiarise themselves with the Rules of the Court, including the transmission process," Koome said. The Supreme Court is mandated by Article 163(3)(a) to hear and determine disputes relating to the elections to the office of the President. It also has appellate jurisdiction under Article 163(3)(b) to hear and determine appeals from the Court of Appeal and any other court or tribunal as prescribed by national legislation. Article 163(6) of the Constitution also vests the Court with the power to give an advisory opinion at the request of the national government, any State organ, or any county government concerning any matter concerning county government. The Court also hears appeals from tribunals of the Constitution to determine whether a Judge ought to be removed from office. And finally, the Court has jurisdiction to consider applications emanating from a declaration of a State of Emergency under Article 58(5).