A section of Kwale rights activists has petitioned IEBC to ensure persons living with disabilities are given preferential treatment in the elections process. The activists have decried that the majority of the PLWDs cannot effectively exercise their democratic rights because they are not given special consideration. This is in regard to the dissemination of crucial voting information. Led by Human Rights Agenda project officer Antony Jimmy Maganga, they said most PLWDs do not have an access to important electoral procedures and are often left out of the programmes. "The PLWDs always have a hard time in understanding the ongoing political and electoral process because whatever information is disseminated by the respective authorities is unfriendly due to inappropriate channels used," he said. Maganga said there are people with either the inability to see or hear, yet they do not receive copies of information written in languages they understand. He said politicians have also sidelined the physically challenged people as they hold campaign rallies in an unconducive environment for them. He said political gatherings do not have the inclusion of the PLWDs, hence they do not get an opportunity to look at the manifestos of various politicians. The rights defenders said the situation has made the majority of the PLWDs not effectively participate in politics and fulfil their electoral duties. He said it is also denying them an opportunity to contribute their views in electing good leaders. Maganga said the few who manage to keep track of the politics are always supported by their close relatives who force them to choose leaders of not their choice. He said very few of them have moved to take electoral leadership roles because of a lack of sufficient empowerment. The activist said for years, the PLWDs have been subjected to an unfriendly environment during the elections. He said the nature of polling stations "does not favour the physically challenged like the dwarfs who cannot reach high tables and those on wheelchairs to vote". The officer said the polling stations lack special arrangements to facilitate the easy movement of PLWDs to participate in the elections. "We observed in the party primaries where there were areas not all people could access because of immobility since there are no rams and too congested for wheelchairs to get in," he said. HURIA Public Complaint Support and legal Aid Service project officer Mwinyihaji Chamosi said they will be investigating specific cases concerning how the PLWDs will be handled in the ongoing campaigns and coming elections. He said they will be helping them in the legal process and ensuring justice is served. "If a PLWDs is harmed, how did the police react to the matter and has law taken its course," he said. They spoke while engaging the PLWDs on the 2022 election strategy plan at Kombani Social Hall in Matuga on Wednesday. The programme is under the Electoral Conflict Mitigation and Civic Education Support program. The activists now want IEBC to put everything in order for all eligible PWDs to participate in the elections. They want the commission to produce information that can also be easily accessed, especially for the blind and deaf. Chamosi said IEBC should have data for all PLWDs and plan for them well to enable them to take part in the elections. Kwale PLWDs representative Badi Mwalimu Mohammed said 95 per cent of the region's politicians do not involve them in politics contrary to the condition on matters of inclusivity. "The political structures are biased and are not designed to empower us because you will hear of women and youth leagues, but not for the handicap people," he said. He also said despite years of fighting for equality, the IEBC has not yet established ways of helping PLWDs, especially the blind to vote. Mohammed said the material used in the voting is hard for the blind to read because it's not communicated in their language. They have to rely on third parties, which jeopardizes the right to vote as far as privacy is concerned. He said PLWDs should also be hired as presiding officers, and clerks among other posts by IEBC.