Local football enthusiasts could be treated to a scintillating race for the Kenya Premier League title this weekend as leading contenders, Kakamega Homeboyz and Tusker, jut out their full talons for maximum points. The sides are level on 57 points with only three more rounds of play to go and the league could be determined by goal difference if they both run over their remaining opponents. Homeboyz will look to brush aside their heartwrenching 2-0 home defeat to AFC Leopards a week ago as they play away to high-flying debutants Talanta at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. Talanta head into the encounter high on confidence after walloping Kariobangi Sharks 2-0 in their last outing. Tusker, on the other hand, have an uphill task against a rejuvenated Bidco United at Thika Stadium on Sunday. Kariobangi Sharks host Ulinzi Stars at Moi Stadium Kasarani this afternoon. Both sides have witnessed dwindling fortunes in recent weeks after blowing hot and cold in their fixtures. Whereas Sharks are 10th on the log with 41 points, Ulinzi are 13th with 34. Bandari will be hoping to claim the scalp of Sofapaka to reignite their dreams of a maiden title when the two sides flex muscles at Mbaraki Sports Club on Saturday. The dockers are third on the log with 54 points, three adrift of leaders Tusker. Sofapaka are ninth with 43. After crashing to arch-rivals Gor Mahia in a fiercely contested Madaraka Day Cup encounter on Wednesday at Nyayo Stadium, wounded AFC Leopards shift their focus to their reverse fixture against Nairobi City Stars at the same venue on Saturday. Leopards, who kicked off the season on a torrid note, have eventually managed to find their footing and currently rooted in the sixth spot with 45 points. Posta Rangers dare struggling Wazito at Thika Stadium on Saturday. With Sh1 million prize money and the Madaraka Day Cup already safely in the bag, record champions Gor Mahia are high on confidence heading into their match against Nzoia Sugar at Moi Stadium Kasarani. K'Ogalo are already out of title contention and the best they can look forward to is a top-three finish. They are fourth with 51 points. Relegation-bound Vihiga United host Police at Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday. Whereas Police place 12th in the standings with 38 points, Vihiga trail the table with a paltry 21 points.