Jubilee's Mathare MP candidate Kevin Kioko, alias Bahati, has told off ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuma for "spreading propaganda" over his candidature. Sifuna on Monday claimed a joint ODM and Jubilee delegates meeting resolved to back incumbent MP Anthony Oluoch as the Azimio candidate for Mathare constituency in the August 9 polls. "For musician Bahati, we will get him a job in the Azimio government," Sifuna said. But Bahati has dismissed Sifuna's remarks and told him to steer clear of Mathare politics. He said no one has given the ODM SG the mandate to speak on behalf of Jubilee. "Who told Sifuna I wanted a job? As far as I'm concerned, I had a job, Sifuna is the only person who didn't have a job," he said, citing Sifuna's failed 2017 bid for the Nairobi senate seat. "I'm a musician, I'm still trending on the charts," he added saying a youthful political hopeful shouldn't be fighting a fellow aspirant. "If you have decided to back the incumbent, endorse him but don't mention my name," the gospel artist added. "Kaa mbali na siasa za Mathare," he said. (Stay away from Mathare politics.) The youthful political aspirant also took a swipe at Youth and Gender Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh for asking him to shelve his parliamentary ambition. The CAS made reference to Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi who shelved his gubernatorial ambition to support Polycarp Igathe, the preferred Azimio candidate in the Nairobi governor race. "Why don't you have a mother's heart? I'm like your son (and) you go and spreading propaganda against me?" he posed. Bahati claimed he is in the race to right the wrongs witnessed under the incumbent MP's tenure. He said the Mathare constituency lacks basic amenities like public toilets and some households have not been receiving bursaries. Bahati said nothing will derail the voters' quest to change the sorry state of affairs on election day. "No kind of intimidation, no bribery no propaganda will change the vote and the mind of the people of Mathare," he said. "We have decided that we will change our leadership and the next member of parliament is Kevin Bahati Kioko," he added.