Mombasa youth who could be exploited by politicians to cause election violence are being trained as poll peace ambassadors. The Inter-Religion Council of Kenya (IRCK) is educating youth to promote peaceful elections. It is training 30 youths in 10 counties. They are learning about electoral law, their rights and how and where to report electoral malpractices and violence. IRCK deputy executive director Irene Kizito said the programme is focusing on youth because they are often abused by politicians. They pay them a little money, buy them a meal and plenty of alcohol to disrupt rallies and polling. “We have trained 30 of the youth to be electoral monitors, Kizito said. "They have been equipped with skills to monitor the coming general election and report any incidents in case they come up." The youth have been trained on election observation, how to monitor malpractices to ensure the right process in the whole election management process is followed. It has a booklet on electing leaders with values that goes deepinto leadership so young people can identify who will be good leaders for them. The organisation wants youth to become trainers and ambassadors. Shamsa Abubakar, Mombasa chairwoman of Women of Faith Network under IRCK, said most youth do not understand the laws, code of ethics and peace charter of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. “The youth have been trained on where to report  violence," she said. “We believe youth are in a good position to explain to their fellows the importance of peace and what action the law will take if they engage in violence." Abubakar also said the programme trains women on gender-based violence, which gets worse during election periods. Women have not been left out, she said. A group has been trained to reach girls because SGBV cases usually increase during campaigns and elections. “We want the youth and women to be the gatekeepers of young girls during this election period and bring down the SGBV cases.” Omar Chai, a youth from Mombasa Youth Interfaith, said youth have been branded as engaging in criminal activities in every election. He said they are being used wrongly by politicians. “I come from Kadzandani ward in Nyali constituency and it is true we have a problem. But not all youth engage in crime." Chai said. "It is our time as youth to protect the peace that we need in our communities," he said. Chai has been trained in the programme. Youths said their problems include unemployment, drug abuse and financial illiteracy. They also cited mental health treatment and said it should be included in affordable cover. (Edited by V. Graham)