Bishops and Muslim clerics in the Rift Valley have intensified joint efforts to sensitise residents and political leaders to ensure peace and unity prevail during the August election. They have urged IEBC and relevant institutions to handle the ongoing debate on academic certificates with fairness. The clergymen held a joint meeting in Eldoret on Saturday where they cautioned Kenyans not to elect leaders who thrive on incitement and misuse of youth. National Council of Churches of Kenya regional chairman Reverend Daniel Barno said they would not entertain any leader or resident who would propagate hatred among communities. “We urge our leaders and residents to keep away from issues that undermine peace and unity. Elections come and go but our country must remain peaceful and united,” Barno said. The clergymen said they would go round the counties to preach peace and unity. On the issue of certificates, Barno said while the IEBC should handle the matter carefully, leaders must ensure they have the requirements to run for public office. “We must all respect our laws and leaders are not exceptional to this,” Barno said. Others present were the chairman of the Muslim Imams and Preachers in the region Abubakar Bini and Reverend Samson Omondi. Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich urged political leaders to guard the country’s peace and unity. “We want our country to come out of the polls stronger and more peaceful for Kenyans to focus their energies on their livelihoods,” Kimengich said. “Whoever will be elected must deal with the many challenges we face.” Meanwhile, more than 200 clergies from the Deliverance Church have urged Kenyans to maintain peace and unity. Bishops George Gichana and John Masinde said churches should pray for the country to remain stable. Gichana said youthS should be ready to participate in deciding the country's leadership. “As they do so everyone must ensure that we all keep peace at all times”, Githana said. He said they would actively use the pulpit to encourage and pray for the country. Civil society groups in the region have also launched sensitisation meetings on peace and unity  Edited by Kiilu Damaris