The government has employed over 8,000 youth in Bungoma County under the Kazi Mtaani programme. Bungoma County commissioner Samuel Kimiti said the programme will give 8,245 unemployed youth opportunities to earn. “Some of them graduated from middle level colleges and Universities but they lack jobs,” Kimiti said, He was speaking to the Media on Tuesday after the launch of phase three of the programme in the county. Kimiti said selection of the beneficiaries was done fairly. He said 268 of the youth have been hired as supervisors. The county commissioner said the first and second phases of the programme covered Kanduyi, Kimilili, Kabuchai and Webuye but the third phase will cover the entire county. “The government has done a very fantastic job to employ youths as political temperatures are high so many youths will be kept busy at work,” Kimiti said. He said unemployment was the main problem facing many youths in Kenya and the launch of the Kazi Mtaani programme will give them an opportunity to earn a living. Kimiti asked the youths to maintain respect and stop excessive involvement in politics. He said those who will be found engaging in chaotic politics risk losing their positions. “We want all of you to stick to the rules as per the ministry of housing. I don’t want to hear that some of you are on the forefront to cause chaos in politics,” Kimiti said. He asked the Kazi Mtaani youths to preach peace in their areas of residence. “In this politics season, we want to involve youths to preach peace. Bungoma is a peaceful county and we want to have peaceful elections,” he said. The administrator urged all youths under the Kazi Mtaani programme to get smartphones to monitor progress of their work. “The government developed an app where all the Kazi Mtaani progress will be communicated. Everybody on this programme will be expected to stay online to monitor the progress,” he said. Kimiti directed deputy county commissioners to make sure that all youths on the programme report to work. Bungoma County housing director, Moses Odour, told The Star that he will work closely with deputy county commissioners to ensure that the youths deliver on their mandate.