Milimani Anti-Corruption Court has postponed the sentencing of the convicted Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama to June 30. A report released on Thursday showed all the convicted persons'  sentencing was scheduled for June 9. "The third accused person, Charles Birundu,  did not turn up in court but sent his Advocate who informed the court that the accused was sick and had been put on a bed rest," the report read. The Advocate availed a medical report to confirm the same. This prompted the decision to take the sentencing to a further date, as it could not proceed in the absence of Birundu. In the case, MP Samuel Arama is convicted of abusing his office and authority to fraudulently acquire plot Nakuru Municipality Block 6/95 thereby displacing Muhammad Nisar Ahmed. "The brief circumstances of the case are that the municipal block was initially leased to Modern Distributors (operating then as Standard Vacuum Oil Company, (East Africa) Limited) by the Government of Kenya through a consent by the Kenya Railways Corporation," the Anti-Graft Commission said in a report. The company was issued a certificate of Lease on February 2, 1996. Later, the company sold two plots namely Nakuru Municipality block 6/94 and 6/95 to Ahmad. He was issued with a Certificate of Lease in respect of the parcels of land on September 20, 2011. "Sometime in early 2015, Ahmad noticed unusual construction activities on his land. Which on questioning, he was informed that the construction was allowed by Arama," the Commission said. The EACC branch of Nakuru started investigating the matter after Ahmed reported it. The Commission found that the plot was fraudulently transferred to Arama by purportedly one Yusuf Mustafa Ratemo. Investigations revealed that with the collision with the Land Registrars in the Nakuru Land Registry, a certificate of Lease was issued in favour of Arama on August 7, 2015. EACC then forwarded the file to the Office of the DPP who gave consent to charge. Arama alongside John Muiru Mwaura, Daniel Kimori Nyantika, Birundu and Kennedy Begi Onkoba were charged on June 25, 2018.