Do you feel like you do not have the time to improve your overall health? If so, you are wrong. Sometimes getting your life on track can be a little bit challenging, but you do not have to be hard on yourself. Start with small consistent changes, you do not need to start running marathons or alter your lifestyle completely to get fitter and healthier. Little changes are often all that you need to improve your health. It is advised to walk for at least thirty minutes a day. This is good for both mental and physical health. Walking helps strengthen your lungs and keep your blood circulation and bone health in check. So make sure you take up those evening or morning walks and keep up the pace. The faster you walk, the better it is for your health. Experts advise us to avoid eating any food for around three to two hours before we go to sleep. Have early meals and ease up into the evening as doing this gives your body time to digest the food you have eaten. It will also improve your sleep quality. Make an effort to prepare each of your three daily meals at home using whole food ingredients. It saves you from food poising and keeps your health in check as you know and measure what ingredients are in your food. Cooking food at home and carrying it to work also helps you to save that coin that you could have used to buy food. When you eat good food you feel good. If you work in an office, prepare your lunch the night before each work day, and remember to take it with you to work. We are in a difficult period where we are battling the high inflation effects, a war, and a pandemic. It is easier to drown ourselves if our stress is unmanaged. Unmanaged stress can cause several health issues such as heart disease, anxiety, depression, obesity, headaches, Alzheimer’s, and gastrointestinal problems like Ulcers. Managing your stress could add years to your life. Try going for walks, and engage in a physical activity like taking walks, exercising, meditating, or reading. Do not be too hard on yourself It’s okay to feel certain ways sometimes, stop blaming yourself over past events that you had or have no control of. Believe everything will work out in the end, just do your part and let it flow. Try and also make good better decisions, choose to do the right thing, and avoid making unnecessary excuses. Sticking to a few small changes is all you need to become healthier and happier. So why not start implementing some changes today? You will be glad that you did.