Three herdsmen were on Friday killed and 7 others seriously injured in a dawn banditry attack at Chinchoftu in Cherab ward Isiolo county. The armed bandits suspected to be from North Eastern also went away with a number of cattle. Isiolo County Commissioner Geoffrey Omondi confirmed the incident and added that a contingent of police officers have been deployed to pursue the raiders. He said the attackers invaded the village at dawn spraying bullets and killing 2 at the site of the incident. The other victim died an hour later due to excess bleeding. A section of leaders drawn from the area called on the Government to intervene and send security along the border. Isiolo Jubilee Gubernatorial candidate Abdi Hassan Guyo visited the scene of the incident where he consoled the bereaved families Guyo who was accompanied by former Education  CAS Mumina Bonaya assisted in airlifting the victims to various health facilities for treatment. Bonya is also Jubilee’s Woman representative candidate for Isiolo. Guyo who doubles up as Nairobi  County Assembly Majority Leader called on the Ministry of interior and national security to urgently establish rapid deployment units along the border areas to curb cattle rustling and killings. “If the government sets up rapid deployment units along the border, such command centres within strategic pasture zones will enable swift intervention and avert further loss of life," he said. The banditry attacks in Isiolo are not new. In April, 9 people were killed and four injured in an attack in Burat, Isiolo. Reports indicated that the bandits suspected to have come from the neighbouring Samburu County struck the LMD area three times, killing six camel herders and three people in their homesteads about 10 kilometres from Isiolo town. The residents then accused the police of slow response saying had they responded in time, the subsequent attacks could have been prevented. They said the government should take responsibility for the loss for not considering earlier pleas by leaders to have Rapid Deployment Unit and General Service Unit officers deployed to insecurity-prone areas.