Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential running mate Martha Karua has said Deputy President William Ruto is not entitled to demand the presidency just because President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to support him. Speaking on Thursday evening in Kagumo, Kirinyaga county, Karua said Ruto's suitability for the top seat is not guaranteed and pegged on the promises made to him in the past. Even though he asked the DP to keep his presidential hopes high, she told him off saying his turn to lead the country is not yet ripe. "If you were promised the presidency, the earth is not just about to end, wait for your turn just as I have for all those years." She expressed her gratitude for having been picked as Raila Odinga's running mate and exuded confidence about the coalition's victory in the August 9 polls. "I have been patient enough and I'm glad the season was ripe and God's time was the best. I'm grateful for having been appointed right from a small party to a promising position." Karua further called on the residents to vote for sober leaders and refrain from those engulfed by fury and arrogance. She warned residents not to be tricked by party euphoria saying" that was just an undercoat and that the real coat is here". "Don't confuse the undercoat from the final coat. The yellow colour was just an undercoat, but the real final coat is here. For that purpose, do not divide the votes. We want all the votes in one basket." She praised Odinga's reputation saying through his previous leadership roles in government, he has proven to be a hard worker, reliable and accountable. In addition, she said the Azimio coalition is the only political movement capable of transforming the economic state of the country and improving the well being of Kenyans. She asked Kenyans to be cautious and elect leaders based on their track records and their capability to ease their sufferings. "I have had the privilege to work with Raila under the Kibaki government. He served in his capacity diligently by designing many of the roads that we presently use. I too did serve at my water and justice docket with utmost determination and responsibility." The Narc Kenya boss said history stands to always judge her right and has no regrets for resigning as Justice minister during Kibaki's tenure. She assertively defended herself saying she did not abdicate her responsibility but did the right thing by stepping down as she did not want her integrity compromised. "Were it not for that resignation, maybe, I would be on the list of controversial individuals whose integrity is at stake for allegedly abusing public offices and as such, I would not have the confidence to speak to you." She also called on the county residents to be in the lead in supporting her bid as Raila' running mate She further praised wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for his bold move of rejoining the coalition saying he made a wise decision. Karua thanked the locals for exhibiting maturity and tolerance and refusing to be used by rogue politicians to heckle and ruin her rally. She said her party would still front a county governorship candidate and have the electorate decide who between Narc Kenya and the Jubilee party would carry the day. Prior to Kagumo's visit, the ex-Gichugu MP made several stopovers in Mwea and Gichugu where security was beefed up.