There's a need to declare corruption a state of emergency in Nairobi, governor candidate under Azimio Polycarp Igathe has said. "I will strive to get Nairobi from the jaws of these organised criminals since if we allow this to continue, Nairobi alone is a threat to the entire country," said Igathe who claimed Nairobi is a big organised criminal field that is filled with cartels. The governor hopeful said time was ripe for Nairobi as well as the country to unite and fight corruption which if not tamed will sink even the national coffers. Courting voters, Igathe said if elected, his focus will be on three areas; a vibrant economy, environment (Mazingira safi salama)  and  a better society. “I’m a leader and servant for all. The three pillars of our manifesto will be delivered to all residents of Nairobi bila ubaguzi. Tutastawisha jamii na kuboresha uchumi na mazingira yetu ,” he said. With a people-centred manifesto,  Igathe has reiterated his commitment to enhanced service delivery if elected in the upcoming August 9 polls. He committed to deliver zero hunger, decent jobs, and well-being for Nairobi residents. To create a conducive business environment, especially for small and medium enterprises, he promised to do away with multiple business permits. “All businesses will operate on a unified permit. Supermarkets, for instance, will only have one business permit with flexible payment timelines that shall be spread throughout the year,” he said. He further said he will institute a five-year score card pegged on a yearly performance agreement with the public. “The work of a leader is to find solutions and not amplify problems. Give me a performance agreement to work with to deliver the scorecard that will be based on my manifesto for Nairobi,” he said. If elected, the azimio Nairobi flagbearer said his government will institute a 'Linda Jamii’ social protection programme aimed at improving and uplifting the informal settlements in Nairobi. The Nairobi governorship race has been termed as a battle royale between Kenya Kwanza Coalition candidate Senator Johnson Sakaja and Igathe. Other than the two, the race has also attracted non-politicians who are eager to replace incumbent Ann Kananu at City Hall. Former journalist Denise Kodh is flying the Liberal Democratic Party ticket and is deputised by Steve Paul, a 28-year-old graduate of Business Management. Tech-entrepreneur Harman Grewal is on Safina party ticket, while Kenneth Nyamwamu of United Progressive Alliance ticket is also in the contest and has former banker and human rights activist Lilian Tina Achieng as his running mate. Vying on an independent ticket is Esther Waringa, Nancy Wambui and businesswoman Agnes Kagure who has Abel Onchari Oyieyo as her running mate. On low revenue collection in Nairobi, the gubernatorial hopeful emphasised on the need to standardise revenue streams, to ensure every business pays taxes on their income. “Nairobi has over two million properties but only about 120 of them pay rates. This tells you we have a problem with revenue collection in Nairobi and we need to fix it,” Igathe added. The manifesto emphasises eight thematic areas where the private sector wants changed, on how the capital city is governed including e-government, compliance and enforcement, healthcare, competitiveness, jobs creation as well as culture, and social inclusion. Hawkers have also been branded the ‘real owners’ of the Central Business District as over the years they have proven to be unruly and untouchable. They have taken over road reserves, pedestrian footpaths to run their businesses. The former Deputy Governor  promised to turn the CBD into a retail market to provide a safe business environment for all traders including hawkers. Igathe said hawkers approached him and asked him to run Nairobi in a manner that will include them. “Wachuuzi sio adui, ile shida tuko nayo ni kukanyagana sana. Tunahitaji mipangilio.(Hawkers are not our enemies. Our problem is that we oppress them a lot, we only need proper structures,” he said. CBD is chaotic and has been turned into a parking lot, resulting in congestion. “It is a Central Business District, not a central parking lot. Cars should be parked in specific areas, buildings,”  he said. The total car parking space in city centre is 14,864, of which 3,941 are on-street parking, off-street parking slots are 3,834 while 7,089 are building parking. As a solution, Igathe suggested that motorists should park at the main bus stations and enter the CBD using public transport to create space for businesses to thrive. Igathe promised that in his first 100 days in office,  his administration will create a fit-for-purpose county government with motivated staff and cabinet to deliver on his vision for Nairobi. He also proposed a five-year score card pegged on a yearly performance agreement with the public. Defending his campaign style, Igathe said his way of interacting with the public demonstrates that a leader is a servant of the people. “I was doing this to present to Kenyans that here comes a man who is a servant. A politician is simply a servant, and a city is about service,” he said. With ‘NairobiTunavyoitaka’ as his campaign slogan, Igathe’s style of courting  Nairobians to elect him has seen him washing cars, toilets, pulling carts  and was even spotted serving as a waiter in Quiver lounge and washing toilets as well. In addition, the former Chief Commercial Officer at Equity Bank urged  the public to exercise their political right by voting as that is the only way of implementing the change they want. “You have refused to take responsibility to vote but you keep accusing others, saying it is that fellow. Chapter One of the constitution says the sovereign power of the Republic of Kenya belongs to the people,” Igathe said. 