The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) has stopped offering services to all the employees of the County Government of Siaya. The standoff between the county government and NHIF is over the non-payments of premiums amounting to Sh43 million. The fund on Monday deactivated comprehensive medical cover, group life and last expense cover for the county government for the 2021/2022 financial year. This bars county staff from accessing services provided by the fund under the cover. This will affect even the county executive committee members and chief officers. A letter dated May 31, 2022, from NHIF to Siaya County Secretary Joseph Ogutu, copied to the fund's branch manager for Siaya, reads in part: "The outstanding balance of Sh42,934,360 has not been received to date.... Please be notified that the cover has been deactivated pending settlement of the balance." Senior officers from the county government offered contradictory statements when the Star reached them for comments over the matter on Tuesday. The County Government of Siaya and the NHIF signed a one-year agreement for the comprehensive medical cover, group life and last expense in September last year. Under the agreement, employees in job groups L and above can access the services in any of the NHIF accredited facilities of their choice. Those in job group K and below are expected to identify a facility of their choice from the list of hospitals in the NHIF portal in order to get medical services. The staff in this category can also get services in other bigger facilities on referral. However, for dental and optical services, all county staff can access the services in any hospital of choice in line with the September agreement. The welfare of the Siaya county staff is domiciled under the department of governance. In a WhatsApp group for the department of governance, chief officer Joseph Onyango on Monday indicated that all was not well at the county government in regards to remittance of statutory deductions. "We are slowly but steadily grounding to a halt," the chief officer posted in the WhatsApp group. But when reached for comment on Tuesday over the issue, the chief officer painted a different picture. He told the Star that the deactivation won't affect beneficiaries that much. "The payment had been processed and is ready for payment this week. It was only delayed by the protracted delay in approval and uploading of the budget in the Ifmis system," he said. He added that the process was complete and funds will be disbursed by Friday this week. "So it won't take long, things are currently under control," he said. County Secretary Joseph Ogutu also told the Star that there were plans to address the NHIF issue. "We are planning to settle the bill by Friday, June 3, upon receiving funds from the national treasury," Ogutu said. Siaya County government has in the past been on the spot over non-remittance of statutory deductions. In August last year, the county assembly was forced to summon top county staff from the finance department to explain why the executive had failed to remit deductions amounting to millions of shillings. At the time, it emerged that DCI detectives had launched a probe into the disappearance of over Sh600 million from the county coffers. Over 50 staff from the county government were later grilled by the detectives over the matter.