United States International University (USIU-A) Mashujaa men’s hockey team can rest easy after recording their first win at the City Park Stadium on Sunday. The varsity side failed to garner maximum points in five previous attempts, managing just one point. Their other win was against Western Jaguars in Kakamega as they edged out Mike Malunge’s charges 1-0. “Sunday was a great milestone in our journey. It was our first win on the turf and we feel relieved as a team. The three points got us close to the top half of the table which places us in a good position towards the end of the first leg as we take on Mombasa Sports Club,” captain Jamleck Macharia said. He added: “We were solid at the back, efficient in the midfield and for the first time, we had a goal from a forward. In as much as we wasted a couple of chances, we were happy to have implemented things we were working on. Going forward, we  hope to continue scoring more goals, as we have a goal difference to chase and points to gather to achieve our top three target.” After weekend matches, Kenya Police lead the men’s standings with 19 points from eight matches—two better than second placed Butali Warriors with 17. The law enforcers had 13 points prior to the weekend before gunning down both Parkroad Badgers 4-2 and Strathmore Gladiators 2-1. “We want to build on the win and plot for Sunday’s match. We’ll continue working on team goals and efficiency in the final third though we are aware our opponents will come guns blazing. We know how they play—they are energetic, fit, and have zeal. Our aim is to control the pace of the game from the start and let them adjust to our game. We want to make minimal mistakes and be efficient going forward," Macharia added. Though they remain third, Wazalendo lost further ground after a 1-1  draw against MSC in Mombasa. The South B-based side have 13 points. Sailors, who scalped Gladiators 3-2 last Wednesday climbed to fourth with 11 points. Gladiators' early-season imperious form has fizzled away after three straight losses. Fifth-placed students have 10 points. Mashujaa, Greensharks and Parkroad are sixth, seventh, and eighth respectively. Jaguars (with four points) have played the fewest matches (five) to sit ninth. Tail enders MSC managed their first point of the season in the draw against Wazalendo.