Kiambu county is set to experience massive infrastructural developments following plans to create six more municipalities in urban areas within the county. Governor James Nyoro has disclosed that his administration has applied, through the Urban Cities Act, for six administrative units which will bring the total number of municipalities in the county to 12. Already, the county has six municipalities which were created by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government in 2018. They include Kiambu, Limuru, Thika, Ruiru, Kikuyu and Karuri. Nyoro who spoke while inspecting the tarmacking of the Gwa Kairu-Matangi-ini road in Juja constituency, said the proposed new municipalities will include Juja, Kabete, Lari, Kahawa Sukari, Githunguri and Gatundu South which will be combined with Gatundu North. The governor said the administrative units will be receiving funds from the World Bank under the Kenya Urban Support Programme and through the Kiambu County Government. He divulged that in the 2022/2023 financial year, the municipalities will receive Sh3.2 billion which will spur growth through infrastructural upgrade and installation of vital amenities across the county. “Under the municipalities, the region will witness massive infrastructural growth and rapid urbanisation. They will also be complementing the developments works we have been doing as the Kiambu County government,” Nyoro said. The county chief said the funds will be used to upgrade road networks, drainage systems and installation of street lights to boost security, ease transport, mobility and ensure the areas achieve a 24-hour economy. “In Juja for instance, residents have been grappling with a myriad of challenges the major one being water scarcity. We will spend the cash to drill boreholes in remote areas including Juja Farm, Athi and Maraba to mitigate the scarcity. This is even as we await for completion of the Kariminu II dam in Gatundu North which will supply this region with sufficient water for domestic use,” he said. Nyoro also said the allocation that Juja will get will also go towards expansion of the sewer system, noting that the region is experiencing a rapid population increase and hence the need for such vital amenities. “More people will be connected to the sewer line thus improve hygiene,” he said. Meanwhile, the governor noted roads projects being carried out in Juja subcounty by both the National and County governments have opened up the region and triggered more developments. The roads include the 33-kilometer Juja-Juja-Farm-Athi-Munyu road as well as the Mwalimu Farm-Juja by-pass. “More home owners have now been able to develop their land because of eased mobility. Again investors are trooping into this region due  to an improved  transport system and this will trigger economic growth for this region as well as job opportunities for thousands of Juja residents.” At the same time Nyoro said other projects being conducted by his administration in the region have picked pace and will be completed as scheduled. They include upgrading to bitumen standard of Uchumi  to JKUAT gate A road which is expected to ease traffic in Juja town bridge, as motorists can now use Eco Matt - Cooperative - Senate - booster to access Jkuat and Gachororo, Mungetho, Mirimaini, Sisal and other residential areas. 