Africa junior champion Angie Okutoyi will play at two junior tournaments in England in readiness for the Wimbledon Junior Championships next month. The country's youngest Kenya Open champion returned home over the weekend from the French Junior Open and will train for a week before jetting out to the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, Okutoyi will play Junior tennis tournaments in Nottingham and Roehampton this month. In an interview, she said is delighted to play at both tournaments as she prepares for the Wimbledon event. “I'm looking forward to playing in these two junior tournaments as a build-up to Wimbledon. The French Open was an eye-opener and the more you play at this level, the better you become,” she added. Okutoyi said she will work on her serve and forehand in preparation for Wimbledon Junior Championship. "My serve was not the best but I will work on it together with my forehand. I hope to be in the best possible shape for the build-up tournaments as well as the junior Wimbledon tournament,” added Okutoyi. Okutoyi said she is keen to maintain her ranking if she is to compete at the final Grand Slam of the year—the US Open in September. “Ranking points will be crucial. The further I go in the tournament, the higher the chances I have to play at the US Open," she added. Okutoyi's coach Thuku Rogoi said she will make the transition to grass quite easily having played on clay court during The French Open and at the hard court at the Australian Open. "Angela will have at least two weeks playing on the grass court and therefore she will adapt quickly and will be in good shape by the time the junior tournament starts,” said Rogoi. Okutoyi won her first-round match of the French Junior Open, beating Angie Van Impe of Belgium 7-6, 6-4 but lost to the top seed Petra Marcinko of Croatia 6-2, 6-4. At the Australian Open in January, Okutoyi reached the third round, beating Italian Federica Urgesi 6-4, 7-5, 6-3 in the first round before eliminating Zara Larke of Australia 7-6 (7), 7-5, 6-1 in the second round.  She bowed out to Serbian Lola Radivojevic 6-2, 6-3 in the third round.