Former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti has said that he will prioritise the revival of the economy if elected the next Mombasa governor. Awiti said that Mombasa currently has no resources as the county depended highly on the port, many of whose operations were transferred to Nairobi and Naivasha. He said that he would put in measures to revive the tourism industry, which has adversely been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, leading to huge job losses. “Mombasa currently depends on the struggling tourism sector, with eyes focused on the blue economy,” Awiti said. “I will push the national government, through the council of governors, to set aside a special fund to cushion hotels in the tourism sector struggling to get back on their feet after the ravaging effects dealt on them by the pandemic.” The Vibrant Democratic Party leader was speaking during a meet-the-people tour in Mvita on Monday afternoon, where he interacted with the Jua Kali sector players. “My administration will build cold storage facilities and offer our fishermen modern fishing equipment so that we can effectively tap into the blue economy sector,” said Awiti. He also promised to construct modern markets in all the six Mombasa sub-counties to ensure that hawkers and small traders have a dignified designated area for them to sell their products. He promised to establish small industries in each sub-county to help create employment for the youth. “Given the chance, I will transform this county. Ask me where I got money, I work hard. I have never trade with the government, the only time I worked for the government is when I was MP,” he said. Concerning the Jua Kali sector, he said that he was already in talks with the CEO of the Kenya National Juakali Association Richard Muteti and the regional projects manager of the East African Community Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Trade Fair on how to tap into the potential of the sector. “I am optimistic that more deliberations with different sectoral players, including registering our youth to Saccos and giving them grants will birth the best solutions that will work for all,” Awiti said. Awiti also promised to weed out corruption and streamline service delivery in Mombasa by ensuring that every resident is served equally without any discrimination against colour, religion or tribe. The VDP leader dispelled rumours that he had bolted out of the governor’s race confirming that he was still in the race to succeed Governor Hassan Joho. He said that he had submitted his papers to the IEBC and will soon announce his running mate and launch his bid officially as soon as the commission announces the official campaign period open next week. He called for peaceful campaigns in the county as he warned opponents against inciting and using the youth to disrupt other politicians' meetings. He asked the police to be on the lookout for such politicians and stop them, saying that if the trend goes on, others will be forced to defend themselves and this will take the county nowhere. “People say Awiti is a rough guy, I am not. But if you come to disrupt my meetings, we will pick you and take you to the police to deal with you,” he said.