Azimio candidates in Kirinyaga should not shy away from marketing Raila Odinga, his running mate Martha Karua has said. Speaking at Kerugoya Stadium yesterday, she said doing so would jeopardise their chances of victory. "A while back, there was a perception that you could not market Azimio or Raila’s candidature in Kirinyaga," Karua said. "The truth is, if you exhibit indecisive character while on your campaigns, you not only stand to hurt your chances but ours as well.” She told Kirinyaga candidates vying under the coalition to popularise it. They should not be intimidated by their opponents but be assertive and aggressively champion for the ideals they believe in, she said. “Sometimes we give in to fear, lack faith in our cause because we feel threatened for what we support," she said. Her advice comes as the coalition intensifies its campaigns in the vote-rich region to neutralise its opponent Kenya Kwanza's perceived dominance in the region. Karua urged candidate not to give in to political intolerance but instead be aggressive and keep their eye on the ball. “Don’t be cowed by the few who will shout you down. Those who boo you are intentionally doing that so as to scare you. Instead, make a point of visiting those areas over and over until you win their hearts,” she said. The Narc Kenya boss hailed the Azimio coalition, saying it has a workable plan that will help steer the country to greater heights. Its plans include taming corruption. Karua said through her potential Justice and Constitutional Affairs docket, she will see to it that the law deals firmly with corrupt individuals as well as ensuring public funds are guarded and utilised according to the country’s need. She thanked Raila for entrusting her with the docket as he was confident of her efficient delivery. Karua also took a swipe at her opponents for trivialising their pledge to fight graft. She promised the fight will be indiscriminative and will not be anchored on a witch hunt. “To our opponents, when we pledge to fight graft, we are not directly referring to you because no Kenyan was named corruption after birth,” she said. “Our course will cut across the board and will deal with individuals practising the vice regardless of their social or political standing.” She urged the electorate to assess and consider putting in public office individuals of high repute and whose integrity is unquestionable. She said this can best be evaluated by how candidates seeking their votes have handled public money in their previous and current leadership roles. She said the Azimio government will streamline among others the health sector through the ‘Babacare’ medical plan, lower the high cost of living as well as empower the small and medium-sized enterprises to put money in the pockets of the ordinary wananchi. Karua called on Kenyans to elect the right county leaders who are conscious of the people’s needs and have demonstrated positive leadership skills. She said that was the only way to strengthen devolution and improve all counties' assigned roles. “Elect a leader right from an MCA to a governor who will not fail you. An accountable leader who will be responsible and prioritise your needs.” She praised Makueni Governor Kibutha Kibwana for his outstanding leadership skills, more so in the health sector. “The governor is confident of his work and no wonder when he was required to undergo a minor surgery some time back, he sought medical services from one of his county’s health facilities. Because he strongly believes in the work he does for his county,” she said.