The General Service Unit (GSU) have been crowned champions of the Kenya Volleyball Federation men's league for the fifth time in a row. GSU clinched the title after overcoming a stiff challenge to beat Kenya Ports Authority 3-1 in the hotly-contested playoffs at the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium on Sunday. The Paramilitary side's win came courtesy of 27-25, 20-25, 27-25 and 25-23 set scores. GSU coach Gideon Tarus said the triumph marked their dominance in the completion, adding they would now shift focus to the African Club Championship slated for next year. "We rose above adversity and when all odds were against us, the boys held their nerves and proved our trust in them. How nice it feels to defend our title in a typical dominant manner," a relieved Tarus said. "We are going to rest but we will resume our training immediately after the national elections next week. We want to be super ready for both the national league and the Club championship whenever duty calls." KPA assistant coach James Ontere was disappointed by poor officiating but added the setback was a learning curve for the Coastal side who will bounce back stronger next season. "Poor decision-making by the referees really demoralised the players but I cannot use that as an excuse. Some calls went against us. I know it's heartbreaking to the players but we will emerge from the ashes. The defeat will only strengthen the players' mentality and enable them to deliver under pressure. " GSU led 18-15 in the first technical time-out but KPA narrowed the gap to 19-18 in the second break. They tied at 25-25 and there was no margin for error from the dominant GSU who bagged the set 27-25. After ties of 5-5, 9-9, 15-15 that defined the second set, KPA opened a four-point gap to lead 20-16 before silencing GSU 25-20 to level the match 1-1. The push and pull stretched to the third set but like fine wine, GSU prevailed 27-25. Mental fortitude was the difference in the last set as GSU, despite being second best in the game, saw off KPA 25-23. Elsewhere, newbies Trailblazers recorded a resounding 3-0 win against Kenya Prisons to finish third. The former champions' Prisons failed to redeem their dwindling fortunes and another lucklustre performance saw the warders lose in sets of 25-23, 25-19 and 25-21. Trail Blazers have managed four points but inexperience saw the Ruaraka-based side surrender a 2-0 set lead to lose 3-2 over KPA. Blazers also flopped against GSU on Saturday but their 3-0 loss was expected considering their inferiority over the dominant Paramilitary team. In the meantime, the KVF national elections will be supervised by the Electoral Boundaries Commission of Kenya IEBC. The new dates for the elections will be set in the next General Meeting which will be held on October 29.