Water levels at Marere springs in Kwale have dropped due to the prolonged dry season, water executive Martin Kuya has said. Kuya said authorities in the region are concerned after the levels reduced by 35 per cent. The region has been experiencing continuous drought in Kinango, Samburu, Lunga-Lunga and some parts of Matuga subcounties. Kuya said majority of the water sources have dried up while the remaining ones are yet to completely dry. “Most of our boreholes, earth dams and rivers have been largely affected. Their water depths have plummeted and others are struggling to survive,” he said. Most of the available water sources are contaminated due to competition by residents and wild animals. The Marere freshwater supply is highly relied on by Kwale and Mombasa residents. Kuya said the drop in the water level has triggered a serious shortage of the commodity. He said the situation might worsen if the drought persists. Red Cross estimates rains have been poor in the region for at least two years. Currently, some parts of the region are experiencing an acute deficit of water forcing residents to seek water in long distances at higher costs. In Samburu and some areas of Lunga-Lunga, a 20-litre jerrican of freshwater is selling at Sh150 from Sh50. In Mombasa, there is water rationing to control supply. Kuya said the rationing will remain effective until the water levels normalise. “We are managing the little available water, to enable residents to get the commodity at least weekly,” he said. The shortage has also resulted in human-wildlife conflict in the region as animals move out of their habitats to look for food and water. Residents bordering the forests are complaining of attacks by baboons who invade homes. Last year, two children were mauled to death by hungry hyenas and several others injured in Samburu. The wild animals had raided the villages in search of food and water. Due to drought, 5,000 livestock in Kwale died. Matuga resident Mwanahamisi Charo said it's almost a week since their taps ran dry. She said they are forced to buy bottled drinking water from shops and well water for bathing and other domestic activities. The county has now started supplying water browsers to the affected areas to alleviate the effects of water scarcity. Kuya has, however, advised residents to use and store water for future benefit. “Let's be very cautious and raise alarm whenever there is a leakage,” he said. He urged them to report any cases of water spillage to curb losses and strengthen the water supply. Edited by Kiilu Damaris