It has been said before that fashion waits for no man; you either jump on the bandwagon or you will be left behind, and there's truth to it. Fashion trends are always winning. A certain piece can trend for a week, months or even years, depending on how good the piece is or how relatable it is to the public. It's 2022 and fashion trends are changing. Some trends did well in 2021 and toppled over to 2022 and we are here for it. Women's fashion changes quite often, with new clothes, shoes, jewellery flooding the marketplace, leaving us confused. With fashion, we at times don't obey the rules and best believe there are rules. In case you didn't know, fashion trends have seasons; there are outfits specifically released to the market for summer, winter, spring and autumn periods. But what your outfit means and when to wear it? Yes. All clothes have a story behind them and have been named accordingly. 1. Palazzo pants Palazzo pants have become a favourite to many because of their comfort and most times the material used. Palazzo pants are long women's pants with extremely wide legs that flare out from the waist. Some palazzo pants flow all the way to the ankle while others are past the ankle, covering the feet completely. Most women go for the extremely long ones because they can pair them with high heels and still cover the feet according to one's preference. Popular fabrics used to make the pants are silk crepe/crape, jersey, and other natural fibre textiles. Palazzo pants are easy to style as you can pair them with a fitting blouse or a bodysuit. You can choose to wear them with sandals, high heels or even sneakers, depending on your fashion taste. They are mostly won during summer or sunny days as they give that beach vibe or a picnic vibe on a Sunday afternoon. 2. Wide-legged pants Wide-legged pants have been in fashion from the 1920s to the 1950s. The pants have been reoccurring and they were quite a fashion statement in the 1900s to 2000s. Well, the pants are back with a bang and women are embracing the pants, incorporating a few additions like some being ragged. The pants, mostly made of jeans, are fitting from the waist then flared from the knees to the bottom. Depending on the design, the flared part of the pants can be too wide or just the normal size. 3. Bodysuits Bodysuits are heaven and if you don't believe me, ask any lady close to you. Bodysuits resemble a one-piece swimming suit, but the material is different; it can be cotton, wool, silk or any other material. Bodysuits provide support and they give a clean finish, hugging your curves and are tucked into pants or skirts. They have either one, two or three buttons/hooks at the crotch to secure the suit. 4. Boiler suits A boiler suit is a one-piece garment with long sleeves and legs resembling a jumpsuit. The only difference between boiler suits and jumpsuits is that boiler suits are usually less tight-fitting compared to jumpsuits which can be fitting. They are called boiler suits because they were first worn by men maintaining coal-fired boilers. Boiler suits have been embraced and it's a trend that is easy to style. You can pair them with sneakers, high heels or even flat shoes. 5. Puffer/Quilted jackets Puffer jackets are a '90s-inspired trend that has made a terrific comeback to the market. They are quilted coat which is insulated with either duck or geese feathers. They can also be filled with down insulation or synthetic fibers. This jacket has become a must-have for many. They come in handy, especially during the cold season. 6. Jumpsuits A jumpsuit is a one-piece garment, with sleeves and flowing legs. Remember our previous comparison between boiler suits and jumpsuits? With jumpsuits, they come in different shapes and styles usually to an individual's liking. Some have sleeves, others short sleeves and some are sleeveless. The good thing about jumpsuits is you can wear them on any occasion as they are easy to style. The only problem with wearing jumpsuits comes in when you've got to use the bathroom pretty badly. They are quite a hustle to pull down. But choosing the right jumpsuit for the right occasion will save you the hustle when you've got to go for that bathroom break. 7. Crochet fits Remember when we were young and our grandparents would knit sweaters and hats using threads of different colours? We loved them but later on, grew out of them. But guess what? Crochet fits are a fashion trend that is here to stay for a while. The fits can be worn, especially during summer; they also give that beach vibe and we are here for all that and more. Well, the crochet fits fashion trend has caught a craze and has for a really long time been embraced. People who can crotchet are at an advantage because they can make an outfit anytime they want. (Edited by M. Asamba)