As the August 9 General Election beckons, Migori voters have been treated to antics from aspirants. From scrambling for advertisement space and campaigning using  branded boats, election hopefuls have not spared the electorate. Politicians are known to go an extra mile in the battle for numbers at the ballot. Some have moved a notch higher to beat a crowded field to the attention of  voters. Migori governor aspirant Robert Okong’o has been turning heads and pulling crowds by having a ‘floating’ boat, painted in orange colours with his bid written at the side. The vessel has been moving across all eight subcounties in Migori. The boat is often loaded in a canter lorry and moves with the campaign caravan and has been a show stopper. “We have national examinations going on and we  have to give candidates a conducive environment," Okong'o said. "Noise has to be minimised and I need to still attract crowds so I used a painted boat which has been working greatly." He said out of eight constituencies in Migori, only Nyatike borders Lake Victoria so many voters are yet to see a boat. "One floating on land will definitely stop and get interest, I plan to change the way campaigns have been done in the past and this is a message of how things will be done differently in Migori,” he said. After rounds of campaigns, the boat is often parked at his home in Komolo Rume, Awendo constituency. “We will donate the boat and others to beach management units along the lake. So far we also plan to give motorbikes and posho mills to youths and women groups through a foundation I run,” he said. In Migori town across river Migori, Suna West constituency voters have been treated to scrambling over a billboard by the incumbent Peter Masara who is facing stiff competition from the former area legislator Joseph Ndiege. Ndiege bought space on a billboard  declaring his bid two months ago and put up his banner. Weeks later Masara bought the space just right behind the banner and placed his advert. Voters approaching the town from Isebania side meet a picture of Ndiege staring down at them with ‘Kido gi Tim’ (Character and action) message. Those coming from Kisii see a bespectacled Masara wearing an ODM scarf with leader Raila Odinga next to him with 'Jadongruok mak dondre' (Development leader without propaganda). In the  last polls, Masara won on an independent ticket against Ndiege who was the ODM nominee. Voters said politicians who have printed their campaign banners have been fighting over strategic venues especially boda boda shades which has seen divisions arise. “In some shades which are used as stages, aspirants are fighting over  banner space which are guarded by armed youths. We need to have peace during this period,” Jack Omondi, Migori county boda boda chairman said. Otieno Sije, a businessman who rans Kafith Studios, said demand for campaign materials like t-shirts, studio photos, banners, fliers and branding of vehicles and motorbikes have been on the rise. “In Migori, which is an ODM stronghold and similarly UDA in some parts, nominations is equal to the general election," Sije said. "As parties are receiving potential candidates we look up to more antics and need to unique campaigns.” (Edited by Francis Wadegu)