I was doing a bit of research over the weekend and what I stumbled on made for some grim reading. As per the World Urbanisation Prospects report of 2018, over two-thirds of the world's population will be residing in urban areas by 2050. This translates to increased demand for essential services, including food, water, electricity, health, housing, education as well as transport. Considering many cities — especially developing countries like Kenya — are virtually bursting at the seams with high population, the worst could be ahead of us. It means we could be grappling with challenges, such as constant blackouts, water scarcity, environmental pollution, poor health services, traffic congestion and mushrooming of slums, in many years to come. This is unless we adopt sustainable ways of living that will ensure urban biodiversity remains intact for the sake of the coming generations. For Nairobi city, one of these models required ASAP is the smart transport systems. Also known as intelligent transport systems, these are digital technologies as well as sustainable practices used to enhance efficient traffic management within the city by providing realtime data on traffic conditions on various roads, availability of public transport and timings of the same. Various cities across the world, such as Berlin (Germany), Seoul (South Korea) and Paris (France) have embraced digital technologies that are connected to road users' smartphones or a car's GPS system to manage traffic and reduce congestion on various roads. Through the information received, users can identify routes that are susceptible to traffic snarl-ups and select alternative roads to use. Drivers can also pinpoint places within the central business district where there are parking spaces. For people using public transport, such a digital technology enables them to find information on the various buses plying their routes and the times at which they will be available. They can also assess and compare different fares levied by various passenger service vehicles before choosing the one that suits them. Smart transport systems would be like manna falling from heaven as far as Nairobi motorists and road users are concerned. Considering that fuel prices tend to oscillate towards the higher end, any extra time spent in the traditional traffic jam leads to premium tears for many drivers. Additionally, the urban biodiversity of our 'city in the sun' has taken a beating due to environmental pollution — particularly, greenhouse emissions from vehicles powered by petrol fuel. As has been seen in the case of the Nairobi Expressway, the process of expanding transport infrastructure to accommodate the increasing demand for the same has led to the depletion of natural resources. Trees have been cut down to make space for more roads to cater to an increased number of cars in the city. To be forewarned is to be forearmed; thanks to smart transport systems, drivers will not need to spend a lot of time in traffic but rather use alternative routes to get to their destinations quicker. Granted, there would be concerns with the introduction of this digital technology, such as data insecurity, lack of technical know-how and lack of proper policies. However, smart transport systems are an idea whose time has come, which the city authorities should be seriously considering — if they are not already doing so.