Amira Sailors will work on their finishing following their 0-0 draw with Wolverines in a Kenya Hockey Union women's Premier League match at the City Park Stadium on Sunday, coach Thomas Mucheni has said. Mucheni was disappointed with the lacklustre performance from his charges who, despite camping in the opposition’s half, could not make their dominance count. Sailors, fresh from winning the Parklands Sports Clb tournament last weekend, coincidentally against the same opposition 2-1 in post-match penalties, were wasteful in front of goal. “We created so many chances but the final touch really let us down. This is an area we really need to work on before we face Sliders on March 27. It is two points dropped but our ambition still remains, to fight for the title,” Mucheni stated. Yvette Kanyandong, Leah Omwandho, Yvonne Madava and Shirleen Nabifo spanned glorious chances as a resilient Wolverines backline defended resolutely. “They (Wolverines) came to defend. We need composure and assured display to win matches but, generally, we played well,” observed Mucheni. His opposite number Dennis Owoka lauded his charges for their performance despite pre-match challenges. The former Butali Warriors coach said the athletes played according to instructions and will adjust according to the nature of opposition going forward. “There was nothing more I could ask from the players since this was our first match in two years. 30 minutes before kick-off, we didn’t have a complete squad but the girls gave their best. Some of our players train in Eldoret and sometimes it’s hard to have all of them on matchdays,” he revealed. Owoka, a serial winner, said he utilise his experience to help Wolverines keep their Premier League status. The former Armed Forces player added that Wolverines will be judged after four matches but the early signs are promising. “This is a strong team and it is just a matter of time before the players bring their best attributes to the game,” he said. In the meantime, a third quarter blitz from the unheralded Kenya College of Accountancy University KCA men’s team saw Wilson Otieno’s side beat Technical University of Kenya TUK 2-0 in a Super League match. Arnold Marango and Dan Majika scored in the 40th and 45th minutes respectively for the promotion-chasing students. Elsewhere, Esther Kerubo and Leah Amuga scored for Nairobi Chapel as the newbies beat seasoned Vikings 2-0 in a women’s Super League encounter.