A KDF officer and his girlfriend were on Sunday arrested over the murder of a female soldier at their house in Mihang'o, Utawala area, Nairobi in a love triangle incident. The slain soldier identified as Phoebe Kaele was based at Modica Garisson, Garissa, while her boyfriend identified as John Gitau was based at Embakasi Garisson in Nairobi. Officials said Kaele had arrived home on Sunday unannounced and found Gitau with another woman and a quarrel started. The said stranger was hiding in the bedroom when Kaele arrived but her shoes were at the entrance. She demanded to know the owner of the shoes and her whereabouts and this degenerated into a fight. It was then that Gitau allegedly picked up a kitchen knife and stabbed his Kaele in the neck from the back killing her. "He and the other girlfriend then tried to clean up the pool of blood that had oozed from the deceased and hid the blood soaked clothes in a bathroom," scene of crime personnel who attended the scene said. Gitau lived in a rented apartment outside the military camp. After the incident, he called one of his colleagues to break the news to him. The colleague called the police. A team that arrived at the scene said they found Kaele's body on the sofa set. They also recovered the killer weapon and a bucket with blood-soaked clothes in the bathroom. Gitau and the other civilian girlfriend were arrested as the body was moved to the mortuary. Police said they plan to conduct an autopsy as part of the probe into the murder. Such incidents have been on the rise in the disciplined services. Elsewhere in Sunton estate, a bar attendant is on the run after he stabbed and killed a reveller in an argument over Sh20. Police said they are looking for David Mutwiri Mutuma over the murder of Kelvin Maina Ngugi, 19. The two argued over Sh20 before Mutuma picked a knife from the kitchen and stabbed Ngugi in the chest killing him on the spot in the bar. Police who arrived at the scene said they found Ngugi’s body lying motionless on the floor. The body was moved to the morgue as the hunt for the suspect goes on. Nairobi deputy police boss James Mugera said they are looking for the suspect. In Industrial Area, a pedestrian, James Muthoka, was killed after being hit in the head with an iron bar during a robbery. He died while undergoing treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital. Police say they are yet to make any arrest over the killing and a search for the attackers is underway. Locals have complained of increased attacks in the area and police have vowed to hunt the gang behind the criminal trend. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)