A Multisectoral coalition has embarked on sensitizing boda boda operators on the importance of wearing helmets while carrying out their day to day activities. The group dubbed National Helmets Coalition, which was formed last year, is sensitising on the need and importance of wearing quality helmets. The Coalition held a half-day event on January 26, where they were hosted by Kenya Red Cross at the Boma Nairobi. The purpose of the event, which was their 3rd meeting, was to define 3 main projects of focus for the group for the duration of the year. The coalition comprises Government institutions and ministries, donors, associations, civil societies, academia, NGOs and the private sector. Members who are part of the coalition are the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA), Ministry of Health, Ministry of Transport among others. The defined projects were meant to train, enforce and manufacture quality helmets. The objectives of the coalition are to advocate for increased safety for bodaboda riders and passengers through strengthening legislation where required. Others objectives were to improve the enforcement of helmet standards and helmet wearing, improve the accessibility to high quality and affordable helmets and raise awareness and competency on safety as it relates to helmet wearing for motorcycle users. National Transport Safety Authority data collected in 2020 indicates that 12,000 Kenyans were killed or injured by motorcycle users. Head injuries cause 80 per cent of motorcycle-related deaths but only 30 per cent of riders and 3 per cent of passengers admit to always wearing a helmet. According to NTSA,  the use of helmets is the single largest preventative measure influencing the outcome of road traffic accidents. Research shows that head injuries account for 80 per cent of motorcycle deaths. The reports also show that helmet wearing numbers are very low, only 30 per cent of motorcyclists report wearing helmets and the figure for passengers is as low as 3 per cent. A good quality helmet that would protect motorcyclists in the case of impact to the head is not widely available and often expensive for boda boda guys resulting in them going for the cheap ones that would break on the slightest bang. The team will train bodabodas on road safety awareness around the use of helmets, influence more robust enforcement of the helmet standard and helmet wearing. The coalition intends to use these projects as a basis for a conversation on the expansion of its efforts.