Kenyans who have been awarded damages by courts will have to wait for an unspecified period before being compensated. Victim Protection Board chief executive officer Mary Wairagu said they are yet to secure compensation funds from the Treasury. She said they have been offering guidance to various stakeholders on the process of claiming damages. The CEO, however, made it clear that compensation is for victims who won cases after 2014 when the board was founded. “We shall not be compensating damages for wrongs done before 2014. It is a requirement that the beneficiaries’ cases should be cleared by the court and ensure there is no appeal to that effect,” Wairagu said on Wednesday. “We however have not started on the process of awarding the damages  as we are yet to get the funds from the Treasury.” She urged national government administration officers (NGAOs) to help in civic education, especially on the existence of the board and its mandate. Wairagu said the majority of officers and citizens have no knowledge of the board's existence. “Many Kenyans while wronged approach their nearest local government officials like chiefs and assistant chiefs for intervention even before embarking on a litigation process. So the officers should be well-equipped with the right information for their victims so that they can secure justice.” Probation Services assistant director Hannah Maingi said any person can be a victim of crime, thus the importance of the board in helping them access their rights and justice. She said many victims may not be learned enough to know the procedures or the victims may be children. Maingi said the Victim Protection Act provides for the protection of victims of crime and for preparation, compensation, special protection for vulnerable victims and the development of mechanism for dissemination of information and provision of support services. She said the board will not only sensitise NGAO officials but will also do so with opinion leaders, civil society and the clergy. Edited by A.N