Supporters of businessman Suleiman Shahbal and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir have been warned against political violence after they clashed at the Tononoka grounds on Tuesday. The chaos broke out during a ceremony to mark International Women's Day. Leaders in various sectors now want action taken against the two lead politicians. On Wednesday, ODM Mombasa chairperson Mohamed “Dee” Khamis warned the two against violence. He said the party has had enough of the violence between their supporters. “Politicians should guard their tongues and how they engage their supporters. The party has its machinery and it is watching them,” Dee said on phone. “When action is taken, they should not say the party is against them.” Dee condemned the violence saying it is not what the party stands for. The party, he said, has its own rules guiding how campaigns should be conducted. “They should desist from creating violence in party or public meetings. A few supporters should not spoil the image of the party,” he said. On February 20, during the Azimio la Umoja rally attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga at the same venue, supporters of both governor hopefuls clashed prompting ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna to warn them. “We are watching. When you come to the office for a certificate, we will remind you of the chaos you caused and deny you the certificate,” Sifuna said. On Wednesday, Haki Yetu Organisation executive director Fr Gabriel Dolan said that was a dangerous trend that should be nipped in the bud. “These guys can turn Mombasa into chaos,” the Catholic priest and human rights defender told the Star on phone. “The general election is barely five months away and these signs do not auger well for a peaceful election. What will it be like during nominations?” Party nominations will take place between April 15 and 22. The priest said ODM should sort out the matter before it gets out of hand. He said the police must take action against the propagators of violence because warning them will not help. “The police should investigate and arraign some of these people in court,” he said. “The National Cohesion and Integration Commission should summon the two politicians.” Mombasa deputy governor William Kingi also attempted to deny Nassir, a chance to speak at the Tuesday function. This caused an uproar among the MP’s supporters who accused Kingi of playing politics. Kingi is in the race for the ODM ticket to succeed his current boss Hassan Joho. “This is not a campaign function, and therefore we ask Nassir to keep off the meeting,” Kingi told Nassir. The deputy governor was forced to cut short his speech after a man jumped onto the dais to snatch the microphone from him. He had to give out the microphone and when Nassir had it, he condemned his opponents for using youth to try and gain political mileage. “Even if they hurl insults at us, we shall not respond to them. We must be peaceful,” Nassir said. Shahbal’s wife Rahma Shahbal said violence has no place in modern politics. Rahama said only visionary leadership will catapult Mombasa to greater heights. “We have five months to elections. We should stop the chaos and love one another,” she said. “We are expected to respect one another and discourage chaos.” Shahbal was not at the function. Both camps have been trading accusations and blaming each other for the violence witnesses during political functions.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris