Novak Djokovic’s chances of playing in May’s French Open have improved after the country’s government eased vaccine passport rules. Prime Minister Jean Castex announced vaccine passports would no longer be needed to access venues from March 14. In February, Djokovic defended his right to choose whether to get the coronavirus vaccine after being deported from Australia in January. Vaccination is still a requirement to play in the United States. For that reason, Djokovic, from whom Daniil Medvedev took the men’s world number one ranking on Monday, is expected to miss March’s Masters Series events in Indian Wells and Miami. After France’s Castex said “the conditions are met” to “suspend the vaccination pass wherever it applies”, Djokovic’s next tournament could be April’s Monte Carlo Masters. The 34-year-old Serb lost in the quarter-finals as he played his first tournament of the year in Dubai at the end of February. Djokovic would be the defending champion if he plays at the French Open, which begins on May 22. Meanwhile, Ukrainian Dayana Yastremska, who was forced to flee her home after Russia’s invasion last week, said she wants to keep winning for her country after reaching the quarter-finals of the Lyon Open. The 21-year-old and her younger sister Ivanna spent two nights in an underground car park last week before their parents sent them out of Ukraine by boat to Romania and then on to France. Read full story Yastremska collapsed in a heap on court after her win over Romanian Ana Bogdan at the WTA 250 event on Tuesday but said she was dealing with the situation better following Thursday’s 6-2 6-3 victory over Cristina Bucsa. “Today definitely was a little bit easier with my emotions,” Yastremska said. “I could keep them under control, so I’m very happy with that. “Yesterday I tried to recover as fast as possible to prepare for my match and I’m still very nervous because I really want to win the matches for my country. Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a “special operation”. “This tournament is very emotional for me, but I’m very happy with the win,” Yastremska said, adding that she was happy to be in a safe place with her sister. “Every point that I’m playing here, I’m enjoying a lot, and especially with the situation that we have now, I’m enjoying it like a thousand times more,” she said. “I’m going to try my best to win my next match.”