Kenyans have been urged to be tolerant of each other’s views as a way to maintain peace. National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Samuel Kobia advised Kenyans to elect leaders with integrity in the August polls. He spoke at a briefing for the upcoming second International Conference on peace, security for Social Enterprise that will be held at the Mwai Kibaki Convention Centre, Mount Kenya University. “We have to be tolerant and to choose the path of unity instead of division. We need to make a tolerant society,” he said. Dr Kobia added that it is true that the uncouth behaviour by the political class projects what is at the core of Kenyan society. He argued that the difference between a politician and an ordinary Kenyan is that the politicians are usually under pressure, which forces out their true character. "Put under similar pressure, ordinary Kenyans would behave in the same manner, spewing hatred against their neighbours and hiring people from their community," he said. He said tribalism was rooted in the Kenyan society and this could be seen from how at the domestic level, most Kenyans always hire their farmhands, house helps and even watchmen along the tribal lines. “The corruption we see in politics, the hate speech and the inclination to tribal division is a reflection of Kenyan society,” he said. He called on Kenyans to celebrate achievements that come through legit businesses and not ill-gotten wealth, as had been the case in the country. A recent study found out that Kenyan youth find no wrong in getting rich through corruption, which Dr Kobia noted points to a worrying trend where the corrupt are heroes of the day while good character matters little in Kenya. Mount Kenya University Vice-Chancellor Deogratius Jaganyi said the planned peace conference would try to look into ways that the country can avoid violence during the electioneering period. “Kenya has experienced a cycle of election-related conflicts almost every five years. MKU has made a deliberate and conscious decision to contribute to sensitizing the society against violence,” he said. “The ultimate aim is to eradicate such conflicts. Through this conference, we are calling on you, the like-minded partners, friends and collaborators as individuals or organizations, to join hands with us to promote peace, cohesion and unity in our country.”