Eric Ooko believes success at the ongoing Magical Kenya Open will entail certain levels of mind play. The Golf Park pro said the experience against the crème de la crème of DP World Tour requires considerable amounts of physical and mental wellness. Ooko is one of the 12 golfers being sponsored by the Kenya Vision 2030 at this year’s Kenya Open. The team received a financial boost of Sh200,000 each from Director General Ken Mwige towards players’ logistical support. Speaking prior to the afternoon tee-off at the tenth tee, Ooko said: “My prayer is to remain focused through and through. You know you need mental strength to handle the nature of pressure that resonates with this competitive atmosphere.” Guido’s vivid memories Italian Guido Migliozzi thinks the DP World Tour always offers them a good experience in a number of countries across the world. “We see a lot of different cultures, lots of different golf courses and we have to adjust our game depending on the country. It’s a good challenge and it’s a good life too. “For me, it’s very important to have this tournament on the DP World Tour. It’s been really important to my career. I won in Kenya in 2019, so if that tournament wasn’t on the DP World Tour, I don’t where I could be? It’s really important and it’s a special event.” Hole-in-One Mercedes on offer This year’s hole-in-one prize at the par 3 thirteenths will be a brand-new Mercedes Benz GLB courtesy of local dealer DT Dobie. Any golfer who sinks it from the tee shot to the hole will take home the coveted award which has featured several car-makes from various dealers. The hole is another shot hole with a length of 191 yards with a massive water hazard from the tee box through to the green on the right. The green is also surrounded by two bunkers, one on the right and the other one on the left. This is where most corporate firms have been placing their hole-in-one prize during previous Kenya Open contests. Harding is in love with the local fans Champ Justin Harding has lots of vivid memories for Kenya. For one, he loves the local people for being 'super-friendly and hospitable'. “I think the crowds are always great, I’ve loved my time here. They’re very welcoming, embrace the Kenya Open, it’s got a lot of rich history and it’s always a well-supported event. I haven’t had the opportunity to go on a safari yet, so that’s still on the bucket list. “It’s essential we come to places like this. I think it’s a big reason why DP World became the title sponsor of the tour. It’s within the culture of the tour that we get to go everywhere. We get to see everywhere— from Asia to Europe to Africa. Donning the red jacket Legendary Seve Ballesteros won the 1978 Kenya Open ahead of future Ryder Cup team-mate and fellow European captain Bernard Gallacher. Just eight years later another major champion to-be, Ian Woosnam, won the event at Muthaiga, beating Bill Longmuir in a play-off. It is not just the success of Ballestero and Woosnam that links Augusta National GC (Masters venue) and the Kenya Open. Like the Green Jacket worn by the Masters champion, the winner of the Kenya Open slips into a red jacket, which was introduced in 2018, marking the event’s 50th anniversary. In honour of his victory that year, Lorenzo Gagli was awarded a locally designed jacket that has bespoke features on the back and arms.