Deputy President William Ruto has denied sharing cabinet positions with President Uhuru Kenyatta in their two terms in office. The DP  while speaking to Chatham House on Monday said the Jubilee administration was a unit headed by the President who called the shots. “There were no dockets that were given to me. I didn’t appoint any minister anywhere. Everybody was appointed by the President of Kenya,” the Ruto. Ruto's assertions are a sharp contrast to what President Uhuru said last month at Sagana III where he appeared to suggest that they shared the government down the middle. But speaking in the UK on Monday, the DP denied ever sharing the government positions. He said even in their first term when they ran a coalition government, the president made all the appointments. “In our first term, we ran a coalition government but I can tell you there was no single opportunity where my party held a PG outside Uhuru’s party,” he said. Ruto opined that Jubilee’s first term performance compared to that of the second term brings to the fore a huge difference. He highlighted the standard gauge railway, hundreds of Kilometers of roads constructed and electricity connectivity as some of Jubilee's achievements in the first term. He took credit for the projects saying he was actively involved in seeing them become a reality. The UDA boss claimed the Handshake between the President and opposition leader Raila Odinga resulted in the BBI whose end result was crippling the government’s development agenda. “The BBI came and killed everything. It is called the government. It killed the opposition. It killed the Big Four agenda. It killed everything,” he said. He claimed the handshake reduced the president to a ‘squatter and refugee’ in the opposition while the opposition leader has become the government’s project in the upcoming elections. Ruto was put to task by the audience to justify why he is opposing the bid to unify the country. He defended himself saying the handshake partners were not genuine in their unity bid. “If you talk about unity, is it between the leaders or the people? We should talk about political and economic inclusion for there to be real unity,” he held. He claimed the post-election violence witnessed in the country in the past has been triggered by some candidates rejecting the results of the elections. While committing to accept the results of the upcoming polls, he challenged his competitors to follow suit assure the country that they will accept the will of the people. The DP  spoke a day after he meet Kenyans living in the UK. Edited by B. Marita