Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi's main opponent in the August 9 elections Francis Murgor has quit from UDA to vie for the seat as an independent candidate. Murgor said he had quit from UDA due to personal reasons and after realizing that the UDA primaries would be riddled with challenges. Murgor, however, said he would still support DP William Ruto and also vote for him during the August 9 polls. “After consultations and discussions with my supporters, I have decided to resign from UDA and will now vie for the Kapseret seat as an independent candidate,” said Murgor. He was expected to face off with Sudi in the party primaries but now says UDA, like all other parties, will have major challenges during the nominations set for April. He denied claims that he feared facing Sudi in the primaries. “I don’t fear Sudi because I will still face him on August 9,” said Murgor. He has urged his supporters not to be swayed by propaganda and claims that those vying as independent candidates will be the same as backing the Azimio movement headed by Raila Odinga. “The constitution is very clear about independent candidates and I will not be associated with any other independent candidate or political party”, said Murgor. The aspirant said that by deciding to vie as an independent he was not in any way going against DP Ruto because he would still support the DP as a presidential candidate. Sudi is one of the key allies of DP Ruto in the region and analysts say it would have been difficult for Murgor to win the UDA ticket against the MP. Murgor’s move comes amid fears among UDA aspirants in the region that the party primaries may be interfered with by unnamed close allies of the DP. Chairman of UDA elections board Anthony Mwaura has assured the party’s aspirants in the Rift Valley region that the nominations set for April will be free and fair. Mwaura has dismissed as untrue the wide rumours that some aspirants may be favoured during the primaries. He said they would invite both local and foreign observers to oversee the nominations expected to be very competitive in the region that is the stronghold of DP William Ruto. Mwaura met with aspirants in Eldoret last week and assured them that the party was preparing for free, fair, verifiable and credible primaries.