Deputy President William Ruto has distanced himself from reports he and President Uhuru Kenyatta shared out the government equally after the 2013 polls. Ruto instead insisted that the Jubilee administration was a unit headed by the President who made all appointments. “There were no dockets that were given to me. I didn’t appoint any minister anywhere. Everybody was appointed by the President of Kenya,” Ruto said at Chatham House, UK. Ruto's assertions contradict his boss who recently accused the DP of running down the Agriculture docket. Speaking in Sagana State Lodge last month, the President said those responsible for the ministry in the past oversaw the collapse of various sub-sectors including tea, coffee and rice. But speaking in the UK, the DP denied ever sharing the government positions, adding that even in their first term when they ran a coalition government, the President made all the appointments. “In our first term, we ran a coalition government but I can tell you there was no single opportunity where my party held a PG outside Uhuru’s party. We had one parliamentary group. One government. One programme and it was all clear,” he said. The DP held that Jubilee’s performance in first and the second terms are like day and night, adding that the government achieved much in the first term because they were united. He highlighted the standard gauge railway, roads and electricity connectivity as some of Jubilee's achievements in the first term. The UDA boss claimed the handshake between the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga and the resulting BBI crippled the government’s programmes and plans in the second term. “The BBI came and killed everything. It killed the government. It killed the opposition. It killed the Big 4 agenda. It killed everything,” he said. He claimed the handshake reduced the President to a "squatter and refugee" in the opposition while Raila has become the government’s project in the upcoming elections. Ruto, who was put to task by the audience to justify why he is opposing the bid to unify the country, said the handshake partners were not genuine in their unity bid. “If you talk about unity, is it between the leaders or the people? We should talk about political and economic inclusion for there to be real unity,” he said. He claimed the post-election violence witnessed in the country in the past was triggered by some candidates rejecting results of the election. While committing to accept the result of the upcoming polls, he challenged his competitors to follow suit. Ruto, who spoke on a wide range of issues, said if elected, his administration will institutionalise the fight on graft and establish a Judiciary fund to give it financial independence. He claimed the current war on corruption has been targeting anti-government voices and that lethargy in the graft war has been brought about by the long period cases take in court. Ruto spoke a day after he met Kenyans livings in the UK. At the meeting on Sunday evening, he said his administration will ensure that up to five per cent of Kenyans’ salaries will be deducted for NSSF while NHIF contributions will be reviewed upwards. The DP said his administration will root for high contributions towards the pension scheme to build a huge social security fund and stop borrowing. This even as he told off the state over alleged plot to rig him out of the presidential election and tore into Uhuru and Raila terming them economic saboteurs. Ruto said the current scheme where Kenyans pay a paltry Sh200 every month is a joke and a mockery of savings. “Today, it will not surprise you that Kenyans pay Sh200 to NSSF for pension. What kind of saving are you going to make with Sh200? It is a joke but it is going on in Kenya,” he said. The DP said Kenya's neighbours including Uganda and Tanzania have set a per cent age of their citizens’ salaries towards pension, thus building a massive social security fund. “That way, Uganda has built the biggest social security fund in East and Central Africa. It is an economy, 30 per cent ours, but they have built a social security fund,” he added. The DP also cited Tanzania which he said built its Dodoma parliament buildings using funds drawn from the social security fund. “We will make sure the law is changed within 100 days so that even if we agree to five per cent of everybody’s salary to be saved, we will begin the journey to a huge social security fund,” he said. The UDA boss said his administration will also relook at the contribution towards NHIF, saying the current criteria is burdening the hustlers. The review, he said, will be proportionate to one’s salary. “Now DP is paying Sh1,700 while mama mboga is paying Sh500. Mama mboga whose income is Sh5,000 is paying Sh500 which is 10 per cent of her income,” he said. “The people who are at the bottom of the pyramid are carrying a heavier load than the people at the upper. It is not right. It is not even fair,” he added. Ruto took on Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, saying the trade unionist, whom he termed as foolish, fought NHIF reforms when the Jubilee government reviewed the contribution upwards. “But we were taken to court by a stupid man called Atwoli. I don’t regret calling him stupid because he is,” he said. Ruto and Atwoli are not seeing eye-to-eye politically and have been taking on each other publicly on political podiums.   -Edited by SKanyara