Never in his wildest imagination, had Solomon Ngugi ever thought one day he would occupy a seat at the Mombasa County Assembly. Orphaned at 14 years, Ngugi turned to hard drugs, worked as a casual labourer, engaged in petty crime and even got arrested. In 2014, Governor Hassan Joho offered him an opportunity to be part of his political liaison office, which works with grassroots supporters. He worked diligently until 2020, when he was nominated MCA to replace the Mohammed Hatimy, who had succumbed to Covid-19. Until his appointment in July 2020, many people in Mombasa didn't know about Ngugi's past life. The 42-year-old father of three's left hand is partially paralysed after he was beaten to a pulp for theft in his teenage years. “I was shielding my head from the mob, but my hands were badly injured in the process. My left hand was the most affected and it cannot hold anything as we speak,” he said. Speaking to the Star in his office on Wednesday, the last born in a family of three, said his studies ended in Standard 8 at Kongowea Baptist Primary School. His mother died of diabetes in 1992 and in 1994, his father, who worked as a driver in a multi-national company in Mombasa, committed suicide. “That day, my father left home for work. He never came back , three days later a neighbour informed us about his death after his body was discovered floating at Nyali Bridge,” he said. Before his death, Ngugi’s father had sold their eight-roomed Swahili house in Kongowea, this meant they had nowhere to go. They were taken in by  Alexander Njoroge, a good samaritan. Ngugi said without parental guidance and too much freedom, he started smoking bhang and gradually turned to hard drugs. By the time he was sitting for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam in 1996, Ngugi says he had already become a drug addict. “I couldn’t control my urges and because I did not have money to buy the drugs, I started picking household items and selling them and at this point I had graduated into a petty criminal,” he said. He was part of a youthful gang that used to terrorise Kongowea residents. They would snatch valuables from unsuspecting people and even break into houses to steal. In 2004, Ngugi was diagnosed with acute Miliary tuberculosis, a life-threatening TB that usually affects the lungs. Doctors at Kongowea dispensary advised him to quit smoking and drugs. “I vividly remember weighing 39kgs at 24 years, the disease had really taken a toll on me. I had to quit to get better,” he said. Used to life in crime, he said, adding that he found it difficult to secure a meaningful job. He worked in car wash, as matatu tout and a labourer to sustain his life. Ngungi said he was actively engaged in the 2005 Kisauni by-election. He campaigned for Joho in Kongowea area, which was still part of the larger Kisauni constituency. Joho lost to Ananiah Mwaboza. In 2007, he campaigned for Joho again, this time he won the election. In 2010, his hands’ nerves began to fail because of the beatings he used to get in the past. Joho took him to India for treatment, though his left hand has failed to function completely, he can't hold heavy objects for too long. In 2013, Ngugi campaigned for Joho for the Mombasa governor seat. The following year, he was appointed as a political liaison officer to work for Joho’s grassroots campaigns and mobilisation. He also served as ODM party treasurer in Nyali constituency. According to Ngugi, his nomination to the County Assembly still feels like a dream. “Eight months after the demise of Hatimy, I got a call from the ODM Youth League President John Ketora  informing me of my new appointment, I was overwhelmed with joy,” he said. He said in 2007 he was seen as a traitor by his community for working with ODM. “I thank my party leader Raila Odinga for allowing my appointment without considering my ethnic background. I also thank Governor Joho for the support he has given me,” he said. Ngugi said he usually takes his children to Kongowea to show them his background, so that they can appreciate his journey. He also works with his childhood friends, who had given up on life. (Edited by Tabnacha O)