One of the most important liquids in a car is the engine oil. It is to your vehicle what blood is to humans and other living creatures. Engine oil prevents the vehicle engine from overheating or corroding. It lubricates various moving parts and allows them to work together smoothly. Lubrication further prevents rust and corrosion and cleans the engine by absorbing soot or sludge. Due to these important functions, one of the major dos is to change your engine oil regularly. I have seen many drivers play with fire by waiting until the bare minimum before giving their cars a 'blood transfusion'. A major danger in not changing engine oil regularly is a seizure, thereby incurring high costs to get a new engine. An engine knock occurs when the oil is no longer able to lubricate the moving parts efficiently, resulting in friction. This leads to excessive heat generated as the metallic parts rub against each other. As the engine overheats, more damage occurs in the form of a burnt-up head gasket, broken piston rod, leaking oil and bent crankshaft. Furthermore, the used engine oil becomes a villain as it now no longer absorbs impurities and sludge but allows them to get into the engine. As the moving parts rub against each other, the friction produces shavings and small metal parts that seep into the engine. The oil becomes thinner and less viscous, which further leads to corrosion and rustiness of the moving parts. Lubrication reduces and this leads to the car making weird sounds. Before changing your engine oil, you should be cognisant of the make of your vehicle. The type of car you drive will always determine how regularly its oil should be changed and the variety to be used. For example, turbo cars are very sensitive to dirty oil and will thus require regular service compared to other types of vehicles. On average, you should check your engine oil every week and watch out for any leaks that may reduce the level of oil in the engine. You should also check on the oil filter whenever changing the engine oil. One of the major reasons you may be experiencing mechanical problems is an outdated filter that can no longer remove impurities from the engine oil. Whereas you will not always be possible to afford the best quality of engine oil, beware of substandard ones that will only damage your car. Always purchase these products from accredited and reputable dealers and ensure you get a receipt in case any issue emerges thereafter.