ODM leader Raila Odinga has termed the remarks by DP William Ruto on Kenya’s democracy as reckless, irresponsible, and uncalled for. This comes after Ruto gave a detailed account of what he said is a grand scheme to force Kenyans into a pre-determined presidential election. In a statement on Thursday through his presidential campaign secretariat Dennis Onsarigo, Raila said that Ruto is a high-ranking government official whose public pronouncement cannot be taken lightly. “DR. Ruto’s wild allegations that there is a plan to rig the upcoming election and claims of intimidation from the government are aimed at fanning emotions and creating tribal tensions ahead of the August elections “The DP is a man who has mastered the art of putting on a show with a characteristic trait of lowering his voice, projecting himself as a humble individual before engaging in a high-level lying,” Raila said. While in his visit to the US, Ruto said that Kenyans have stood firm against any attempts to make decisions on their behalf. “We would have expected that we would be able to do this [election] without all the baggage of blackmail and intimidation that is going on at the moment, but unfortunately that is where we are," Ruo said at the Karson Institute, Maryland, USA. Raila added that Ruto’s remarks border on open incitement and constitute a blatant attempt to discredit the country’s independent institutions. “At the very least, the comments erode the gains we have made in strengthening our institutions and are aimed at creating unnecessary anxiety.” The opposition chief added that the DP’s claims depict fear from the Kenya Kwanza Alliance that has sensed the defeat. “IEBC is an independent body; going to press with the claims of rigging elections when multiple political parties have vouched to back Raila Odinga's bid is enough testament that this group has panicked. Prepare to accept, and move” He has also dared Ruto to resign from the government and concentrate on the opposing role, rather than blaming the government of which he is part of. Further, Raila said the DP cannot choose when democracy works and when it does not.