Roots Party presidential aspirant George Wajackoyah left for the US on Saturday night on a five-day trip to the United States. The controversial university don, who has promised to legalized bhang if elected the next Kenyan President, is said to be travelling abroad to consolidate support from the international community. A statement from his team said Wajockoyah will hold talks with business leaders and Kenyans living in the US. “He will be on a five-day tour of the US to try and consolidate support from the international community ahead of the August polls,” reads part of the statement. Wajackoyah is said to be planning to visit the states of Washington DC, New York, Maryland and Arizona, according to his itinerary. “He will hold talks with the business leaders and Kenyans living in the US as he sells the Roots Party agenda,” said an official in his team. Wajackoyah’s trip abroad comes at a time when Deputy President William Ruto is also leading a delegation of 31 high-ranking leaders in the tour the US and United Kingdom. Wajackoyah shot into the limelight after outlining his presidential pledges, which include creating eight prime minister positions in his government, suspend the constitution for six months and change the working days to Monday through Thursday. He has also said he will personally serve as the Immigration minister and legalise bhang and sell it to clear Kenya's ever-rising debt. The 61-year-old professor was born in Matungu in the western part of Kenya and later spent years in Nairobi as a street boy. He was rescued from the streets by then Education Cabinet Minister late JJ Kamotho, who helped pay his schools fees at St Peter's Mumias Boys High School. After high school, he joined the police service where he worked for nine years. He was part of the team investigating the murder of the then Foreign Affairs Minister late Robert Ouko, but he was later arrested under unclear circumstances, beaten and detained. Upon release, Wajackoya went into exile in the United Kingdom (UK) where he spent time studying before he later moved to the US. In the US, he taught Law and Economics, Human Rights, Comparative Constitutional and International law.