A former police officer Dr Silas Mc’Opiyo has been named as the acting Chief Executive Officer at the National Police Service Commission. Mc’Opiyo retired from the National Police Service in 2019 after serving for more than 39 years. He was unveiled as the acting CEO on Friday March 3 by the commission chairman Eliud Kinuthia to take over from Joseph Onyango whose term had ended. Kinuthia asked the staff at the commission to cooperate with Mc’Opiyo. Dr. Mc’Opiyo has been a police officer and rose through the police ranks from police constable Assistant Inspector General of Police. Insiders hope his experience will give him a better understanding of police affairs and address them effectively. He spearheaded a number of reforms in the service specifically in police housing and infrastructure development which saw the service construct a number houses across the country, establishment and upgrading of police stations and acquisition of land amongst many other deliveries. Due to his talent in leadership and management, Dr. Mc’Opiyo was awarded the Best All Round Student (Stick Man) for his sterling performance as a Recruit Constable at the Kenya Police College, Kiganjo. He said he has all it takes to take the commission to a new level. “We are set and ready for any challenge ahead. All we need is cooperation from the stakeholders,” he said. The CEO will run administrative matters of the commission. The commission is facing pressure in addressing growing cases of trauma among officers. NPSC keeps under review all matters relating to standards or qualifications required of members of the service and with the advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, determine the appropriate remuneration and benefits of officers. It also approves applications for engagement in businesses by officers in accordance with the law and provide terms and conditions of service. The commission develops fair and clear disciplinary procedures in accordance with Article 47 of the Constitution and investigate and summon witnesses for the purposes of its investigations.