Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku on Tuesday evening presented his nomination papers at Jubilee headquarters in Nairobi in his bid to defend his seat. On Wednesday at 10am, former Kajiado governor David Nkedianye is expected at Jubilee headquarters after he ditched ODM on Tuesday. After submitting his nomination papers, Lenku said he welcomes Nkedianye to Jubilee, saying it is the most democratic party in the country. While breaking the news of Nkedianye’s defection from ODM, Kajiado North MP Joseph Manje said the decision was reached last week after the former governor discovered he was 'being played' by individuals in the party. “We realised that all was not going well in ODM and decided that we should join the Jubilee Party where we will meet with Governor Lenku in the nominations,” Manje said. Manje, who is Nkedianye’s running mate in this year’s governor race, comes from the vote-rich Kajiado North. According to the IEBC voter register, the Kajiado North constituency has 127,953 voters from the five wards–Olkeri (30,292), Ongata Rongai (26,384), Nkaimurunya (32,274), Oloolua (18,005) and Ngong (20,998). Manje has won the parliamentary seat twice since 2013. Lenku’s communication director Billy Muiruri said on Tuesday his boss remains strong and focused ahead of the nominations. “We are prepared for any eventuality. We have the ground. We have covered 90 per cent ground in the region and voters have assured us their total support,” Muiruri said. He said the re-election of Governor Lenku in the August election is based on the trust the people of Kajiado have in him. Manje said Nkedianye, who lost most of the votes in Kajiado North because of being in the opposition, will now be embraced by the electorate because of his support. “We have the entire Kajiado North and East behind us. Nkedianye has a large backing too in Kajiado South, Central and West,” he said. Kajiado has 411,193 registered voters in 797 polling stations, with five constituencies across the region. Kajiado East, which is Nkedianye’s base, has 102,804 votes, Central (56,434), West (64,026), and South (59,976). Whoever wins the Jubilee ticket for governor will face the winner in UDA, which has MPs Peris Tobiko, Katoo ole Metito and former NTSA boss Francis Meja. Edited by A.N