“Personalised service to the people.” That is the secret mantra that made Old Town MCA Murfad Amur beat 41 of his colleagues in Mombasa county to win the Best MCA Award at the fourth edition of the County Gala Awards. Amur’s unique approach to leadership catapulted him to glory. He says he has never changed his residence and has maintained his circle of friends, doing all that they used to do before he was elected. He says this is what has made his work easier as he seeks his third term in office. Prior to devolution, he was the area councillor, meaning he has now represented the people of Old Tow both in the municipal council and in the county assembly for at least 15 years. “This is not my victory but that of the people who elect me,” Amur said while receiving the award on Saturday at Whitesands Beach Hotel. He says his family has played a big role in ensuring he is accountable to the people of Old Town. “They are the ones who push me to serve the people in the right way. They sometimes are the first to wake me up in the dead of the night when something is wrong in the neighbourhood,” Amur said at the gala. “We are people’s servant. Our duty is to serve the people. All must be accountable to the people they serve,” he said. The MCA says he would like to see his counterparts in Mombasa win the award in future so that the county develops uniformly, at the very least. “These awards are conducted annually,” he says. Salim Juma, who was voted the best county assembly clerk in the Coast region, says people like Amur make his work easier. “They give me an enabling environment and support to be able to discharge my duties,” says Juma, who has 24 years of experience in local government practice. Juma says the biggest challenge he faces in the line of duty is the cash flow hitches from the national exchequer. “When the cash flow is not consistent and the budget allocation is not enough, we are unable to discharge many of the thing that we plan,” Juma says. However, he says, he has been able to use his vast experience and knowledge to handle the different crops of MCAs and councillors that he has dealt with. “It is challenging (to deal with MCAs). You need to be sober, very patient and have the best social interaction skills,” Juma says. The Bachelor of Arts in Sociology degree holder says he has been able to socialise the best way possible. “I have huge experience in dealing with honourables, understanding their inner feelings and how they operate.” The County Gala Awards CEO Khalif Njiraini said the awards are meant to encourage performance, development, leadership and integrity. “It is a way to recognise the efforts of some of the most outstanding leaders and to show that it is possible to serve people freely and fairly, without stealing from them,” Njiraini said. Politicians and civil servants from all cadres, from the grassroots to the national level, were feted, with Njiraini giving a special recognition to MCAs, saying they bear the biggest pressure of leadership because they are the closest to the grassroots. “MCAs, for today, you are my heroes,” he said. Sports CS Amina Mohamed said leadership is about relationships, how one relates to their subjects. “Governance is not a top down affair. It is circular and there are always rewards for honesty, accountability and integrity, which are far bigger than any other,” the CS said. She was voted the best Cabinet Secretary in Kenya. Keiyo North MP James Murgor, who was voted the Best MP in Elgeyo Marakwet county, said the recognition is the work of his backroom staff and the people of Keiyo North who he said have been understanding and patient. “This is not only a win for me but also a win for the people of Keiyo North,” Murgor said. He said zero-tolerance to corruption is the key to his leadership in the constituency. “So that whatever we get, which is meant for the people of Keiyo North, is received by the people of Keiyo North in whole,” Murgor said. He said public participation has also been key to his leadership in terms of projects and bursaries and even NHIF.   -Edited by SKanyara