A farmer in Isiolo county is making a fortune growing pawpaws which he sells to a fruit company in Meru town. Abdinassir Ware is the chairman of the Irrigation Water Users Association and a beneficiary of Rapsu Irrigation project in Isiolo. The project is developed by the National Irrigation Authority. He prides himself in his two-acre farm where he has planted pawpaws in one acre and onions, tomatoes and sweet potatoes in the other acre. Ware said he started growing pawpaws after seeing how other farmers were getting good yields and making money from their produce, and also due to the effects of drought on his livestock. “In the past, our grandfathers had 300-400 herds of livestock but today,the climate has changed and we are now faced with drought, hence affecting our livestock," Ware said. "I lost a number of livestock due to drought so I was forced to reduce the number of livestock that survived. I turned to farming as an alternative source of income.” Ware is able to sell 400 kilos of pawpaws in a week and can make between Sh12,000 to Sh16,000. “A kilo of the SP variety sells at Sh40 per kilo and Sh30 per kilo for the mountain pawpaw variety. My main market is a fruit company in Meru while the surplus is sold at Kiina market,” he said. The farmer said pawpaw farming has enabled him to educate his children and provide his family with their basic needs. Ware said all this is thanks to the NIA who not only provided access to irrigation water to his community, but also brought in people to teach them how to cultivate crops of their choice in the area. “Rapsu irrigation project has provided a livelihood to residents in Garbatulla. It has also provided jobs for the youth and as a result, crime in the area has dropped considerably,”  Ware said. He added he is no longer reliant on neighbouring villages for food, but instead, he is now able to produce enough to eat and sell surplus in Isiolo South constituency and nearby communities. He said agricultural production has a big growth impact on the economy and that it has a multiplier effect when production is stable, reliable and predictable. According to the national irrigation authority, the Sh124 million Rapsu project is used 500 farmers who mainly grow pawpaws, bananas, sweet potatoes, green maize and tobacco. The project benefits about 2,000 people directly. Rapsu irrigation project lies along the gentle slopes of Nyambene Hills. The area under irrigation stands at approximately 182 acres situated in Rapsu, eight kilometres from Kinna. Project manager Eng Aron Mbijiwe said prior to this , farmers access to water was an issue. “Residents not only had to walk several kilometres to access water but were also at risk of being mauled by the wildlife. The construction of intake works, canals and project access roads by NIA in Rapsu irrigation project rescued Garbatulla residents in August in 2013,” he said. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)