Traders in Malaba, Busia, who were slapped with high licence fees have asked Governor Sospeter Ojaamong to intervene and solve the impasse. The governor is expected to meet the traders, although a date is yet to be set. The traders say the charges have increased by between 100 and 300 per cent. They said on Monday the problem should be addressed before March 31, the deadline for renewing business permits and licences. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Busia chapter director Fred Papa told the Star the traders’ grievances have been presented to the county chief. “We tasked Malaba Central MCA Benard Ibela to meet the governor and organise a meeting. We are still waiting for the governor’s response so we can set a date for the meeting,” Papa said. The traders say the increase may deter prospective businesspeople from setting up shop in Malaba town. Last month, a meeting convened by traders and attended by Busia Finance executive Phaustine Barasa ended prematurely after businesspeople claimed the CEC was non-committal in assuring them a lasting solution to the problem would be found. The traders walked out of the meeting. After the meeting, they demanded to meet Ojaamong. Barasa said the increment in business permits and licence fees was effected following the elevation of Malaba to a municipality. She said the 2020 Finance Act, which was passed by the county assembly last year, is now law and asked the traders to abide by the new regulations and pay the fees. Barasa had earlier told the traders to present their complaints, in writing, to her office. The traders rejected the proposal. A trader who operates a posho mill in Malaba town said he paid Sh5,000 to run the business in 2021. However, county officials wrote an invoice that requires him to pay Sh18,000 for the same business. Another trader who runs a pharmacy said she has received an invoice requiring her to pay Sh23,000 to renew her business permit, up from the Sh18,000 last year. A salonist in the border town said she paid Sh3,000 in 2020 to renew her business permit. The charges, however, rose to Sh5,000 last year before shooting to Sh12,000. She is yet to pay to facilitate the renewal of her business permit. James Kangara, a traders' representative in Malaba, said the increment may push some businesspeople out of the town. “We know that when an increase in licence fees and business permits comes, it normally never goes beyond Sh2,000,” he said. “This move has irked traders. We are confident Governor Ojaamong will help us.” MCA Ibela said he will use his position as a member of the county assembly finance committee to ensure justice is served to the traders. “We want traders in Malaba to pay for their licences willingly without being forced. I am ready to handle this issue,” he said. Edited by A.N