Kenya's no 1 pro-golfer Dismas Indiza says he is looking forward to tussling with 2017 Kenya Open champion Francesco Laporta and Savannah Classic champion Daniel van Tonder in today’s Magical Kenya Open at Muthaiga Golf Club in Nairobi. Indiza has been drawn in game 16 and will tee it up from the 10th tee at 7:50 a.m. (Thursday). “It’s such a great feeling teeing it up with star pros. The only disadvantage is the pressure from home fans to perform. But all in all, we are coming out of a very competitive season of Safari Tour and I’m glad the course is in lush green condition. So we will target under-par scores,”  Indiza said. On his part, Van Tonder said he is hopeful lightning strikes twice for him in Kenya with another victory at the home of Kenyan golf. “It’s very exciting to be here. The last time we played here on this course was a few years ago. It’s a great course — a bit different from Karen — but a nice course. It’s very green and I can’t wait to see what happens. The win last year on Savannah meant a lot," the South African, who beat Thailand's Jazz Janewattananod at Karen Country Club, said. Van Tonder also plans to take time off the golf course to sample the best sights and sounds the country has to offer. "It’s special here in Kenya, a different country and a different culture, but at the end of the day, it feels like home — the air pressure, the food, and everything else. Kenya is a special place, with all the wildlife too,” he said. The first Kenyan off the first tee at 7:30 a.m. will be South Africa-based Daniel Nduva who will play in the company of Angel Hidalgo of Spain and South African Thriston Lawrence. Edwin Mudanyi, who was on the reserve list after finishing 11th on Safari Tour Order of Merit, has also earned a slot on the iconic DP World Tour (European Tour) field of 156 players. Mudanyi will tee it up from the 10th tee at 1:30 pm alongside Rhys Enoch of Wales and Englishman Andrew Wilson. The first two rounds on Thursday and Friday will be used to ascertain those who make the cut to the final two rounds on Saturday and Sunday where the winner of the red jacket will be determined. Meanwhile, junior golfers will be in for a treat during the three-day event after Telco giant Safaricom announced  Sh16 million sponsorship towards a clinic targeting upcoming talent. The sponsorship will also go towards media publicity support and a state-of-the-art media centre. "We are particularly looking forward to supporting the junior golfers clinic which is in line with our own ambition to tap, nurture and grow talent among young golfers across the country," Safaricom Ceo Peter Ndegwa said. Magical Kenya Open chair Peter Kanyago said the communication support will go a long way in supporting their objective of relaying the event to millions. "Their support is instrumental as we expect millions of fans to livestream and follow the event. This year we have 156 golfers from across the world participating in the tournament," Kanyago said.