Former Agricultural Development Corporation CEO William Kirwa has joined the race to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago in Uasin Gishu county. Kirwa said he will vie for the seat through the UDM party, which is part of the Azimio movement led by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kirwa previously served as a banker and is also a university lecturer. He was part of the opposition movement during the Kanu government. “I have a seven-point agenda which I want to implement in transforming the county if elected in August," Kirwa said. He further said his campaign will create access for all residents to county resources and ensure accountability in leadership. Kirwa said he will also create networking opportunities for trade and investments. Despite the region being a UDA stronghold and home to DP William Ruto, he said he believed residents would elect leaders of their choice. “People here have no problem with Ruto going for presidency but down here they also want leaders who will work for them,” Kirwa said. He was speaking after a campaign strategy meeting in Eldoret yesterday. He said he would freely  campaign in the region and also market the Azimio movement because he believes Raila has the best policies to help brighten the future of the country. Last weekend former Eldoret South MP Peris Simam withdrew from the race for governor and opted to back one of the leading aspirants Jonathan Bii. The former MP is a well known political figure in the county where she is popularly known as 'pepea na mama'. He decision to withdraw from the race is a major boost to Bii who is one of leading aspirants seeking the UDA ticket. Bii is considered a front runner in the race that also has former envoys Julius Bitok and Sarah Serem along with Soy MP Caleb Kostanyi, Ngenyilel MCA David Sing’oei and former Nairobi Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo. They are all seeking the UDA ticket and will face off in the party primaries next month. Bii was the first aspirant to declare his interest to succeed Mandago three years ago and has fashioned himself as ‘the people’s governor'. The winner of the UDA primaries will however face an even bigger battle against businessman Zedekiah Kiprop Bundotich (Buzeki) who will be vying as an independent candidate as well as Kirwa who is expected to receive a direct ticket. Analysts say there is likely to be an increase in the number of independent candidates in the region depending on how UDA primaries will be carried out.  (edited by Amol Awuor)