Raila Odinga’s ODM party suffered a setback in Western after Kakamega deputy governor Philip Kutima and Nominated senator Naomi Shiyonga decamped to DAP-K. The two will nonetheless be supporting Raila’s presidential bid under the Azimio La Umoja coalition. Kutima was ODM Kakamega branch chairman and was seeking to succeed governor Wycliffe Oparanya. He was to face former Ketraco CEO Fernandes Barasa and Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito in ODM nominations. Shiyonga will be vying for the Kakamega Women Representative position in the August 9 polls. Addressing DAP-K officials at party headquarters in Nairobi, Kutima said ODM had shortchanged him despite remaining loyal over the years. “The party has already made a decision on whom to give the ticket,” he said. ODM had asked Kutima, Barasa and Kizito to talk and agree on who among them will fly the party ticket. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who is also ODM deputy party leader, had indicated that they will carry out opinion polls on aspirants in certain areas to identify the most popular ones to be issued with tickets. However, the move seems to have not gone down well with some aspirants who feel the party leadership is planning to handpick their preferred candidates. Oparanya has not come out clear on whether he would be supporting his deputy to succeed him. Shiyonga termed DAP-K as a river that would take everyone to their destinations. “We are in DAP-K for one major reason. We want to propel Raila to State House. We are fighting with a giant to make Raila our next president,” she added. She said ODM was not the right party for her at the moment because it is “suffocating” some of them. She said ODM is not providing a level playing field for all aspirants seeking to be nominated. “Why are they saying that they prefer so and so and that they want some people to go for another term and you leave out others who are equally good,” she lamented. She said Kakamega county will not be divided by a few individuals who want to deny aspirants and locals their democratic rights. “I am feeling very free right now. DAP-K is more than a brand. I want to point out that we will be accommodated in Azimio,” she added.