@robertomollo3 ODM still has a hectic time in choosing a gubernatorial candidate in Homa Bay if the latest opinion poll result is anything to go by. Those interested in the party's ticket include Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, Suba South MP John Mbadi, former county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, businessmen Louis Oginga and Jared Kiasa. The party had announced three possible criteria it will use in picking candidates to avert violence and fallout during primaries. The methods are consensus, opinion poll and universal suffrage. A direct ticket would be given to a person whose opinion poll is popular and leads. According to the pollster, Consortium of Researchers on Governance Africa, the race for Homa Bay governorship is still tight. CORG results put Magwanga as the leading aspirant with 23.6 per cent, followed by Wanga at 20.4 per cent, Ogwe 20.1 per cent while Kidero at 13.5 per cent. Mbadi is ranked at position five with 10.5 per cent while Orata is number six with 2.7 per cent. Misori, Kiasa and Ogingo share 9.1 per cent which includes undecided voters. Party leader Raila Odinga said they would prioritise consensus among aspirants to enable them approach the general election as a united team. Raila cleared the air in the backdrop that fierce competition has been witnessed during nominations, especially in places where the party enjoys much support like Homa Bay. “It would be prudent if all the governor aspirants agree by choosing one of them as a candidate. This will avert violence and avoid tainting the party’s image,” Raila said during Homa Bay NGAAF tournament finals in December last year. The aspirants want to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti, but they have not met and agreed to pick one of them as a candidate for the ODM ticket. Instead, the aspirants have intensified the campaigns. As the nomination date draws closer, ODM faces a hard time in picking a candidate for the governorship seat since the popularity of the aspirants is proving to be too close. Homa Bay political observers Dan Opande and Patrick Agwagra said the poll result is a true reflection of what is happening on the ground. “Magwanga leads because his supporters believe Awiti defeated him unfairly in 2017. Magwanga also comes from a populous Rachuonyo region,” Opande said. The analysts asked ODM to ensure a credible nomination process because the popularity margin among the aspirants is small. Agwagra said no aspirant should be underrated because results can also change before nomination day. “Ogwe has gained ground due to campaigns strategies he has put. ODM should tread carefully over the matter and try if it can make the leading aspirants agree,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris