The 2016 Olympic javelin silver medallist Julius Yego says he is not keen on out-of-Nairobi Athletics Kenya track and field weekend meetings due to poor facilities in some of the stadiums. Yego competed at the opening leg of the series at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi in January but gave a wide berth to the second at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu and the third — though staged at Nyayo Stadium — after a big switch from Tharaka Nithi County's Kirubia Stadium. The event was moved due to substandard facilities at the newly-refurbished stadium. “At the moment, I will not be able to compete on grass considering most of our stadiums lack tartan tracks. Tartan is good for throws and sprints,” said Yego, adding that his hesitance is borne out of a need to avoid injuries. “Competing on grass makes one prone to injuries. Grass lacks grip and in Kisumu, it was raining... even the results were not pleasing at all. That's why you need to be selective on which competitions to participate in,” the Africa champion said. The triple Africa champion said the lack of modern facilities is further making it hard for upcoming athletes to realise their potential in the javelin, citing the case of Meshack Kipkogei. “When an athlete picks up the sport early, progressively at the age of 20-21, and 23 years, they should be able to compete at a very high level but lack of facilities in Kenya always derail them. I saw the story of Kipkogei's school buying him javelin equipment which is recommendable since it is just the way I started,” he said. "When I was at Kapsabet Boys, the school bought me a javelin and here I am... having competed at the senior level. I am looking forward to having many young boys and girls taking up the javelin because I won’t be there forever. The maximum and athlete can stay competitive is 20 years, depending on the event of choice." Yego says he is focused on reclaiming the Commonwealth title in Birmingham and is targeting the National Police Service championships as a springboard for his campaign. “I am really working hard to be ready by next month. It will not be a rushed process but a progressive one because we have a long season until the World Championships and Commonwealth Games. So, I have to balance well to ensure that I compete well at these two competitions,” he added.