In case you missed me last week, Ponda Mali, our incumbent MP and picture of a man who swallowed a pig whole, is in our village, soliciting votes on his second bid for a parliamentary seat. Sgt Sophia and I are his mandatory official security, making sure he spews his lies and spreads sham promises without receiving (in my opinion) a much-deserved knife through the back. To Sophia, the consummate professional, he was just another professional going about his business, such that my opinion is worth as much as spittle in a bar sink. This morning, she’s singing a much different tune. “I’m tired of being treated as a sexual object, you know?” she says, fastening the clasp of a gun holster around her belt. “Still seething over our lecherous M-Pig’s overt sexual advances, I see. I’m not saying ‘I told you so’, but I did.” “Every time I think you’re about to make sense, you put your foot in your mouth.” “Hey, relax. I’m not the enemy here, remember? Save some juice for Mr Tummy. He’s the one who was running his foot up your leg at the bar, not me.” “But you also do it all the time.” Her eyes soften, the ghost of a smile on her lips. “At home, in bed, remember?” “I don’t.” I avert my eyes, check if my already buttoned shirt is done well. “I try to forget everything that happens at night.” She cosies up to me, runs a finger over my cheek, kisses the tip of my nose. “Soon, baby. I’ll make it all worth your while.” “You know how many times I’ve heard that from you? Last I recall, I had to put a ring on it. What happened when I proposed over Christmas?” “My mother was dying.” “Fake dying. We went to Githurai and found her not only very much not dying, she was as drunk as a skunk.” “I know, but you never did again.” “Why would I ever want to go back to Githurai again?” “I’m talking about proposing, silly. Don’t you want to marry me anymore?” “I don’t think you want to get married. I think it’s just a ruse to keep me at the end of a tether.” “Is that so? What about you?” “What about me?” “You only wanted to marry me so you could get into my pants.” “How do you figure that?” “For starters, how do you propose before taking me to meet your mother?” “Why? I’m the one marrying you, not my mother.” “Yeah, yeah. Who doesn’t know every man is a mama’s boy? One negative word from her and you’ll throw me to the curb faster than I can say, ‘Hoop dee doo.’” “Why would you want to say ‘Hoop dee doo’?” “It’s just an expression. Take a hint, dummy. I’m saying I want to meet your momma.” “And there’s the other thing. You always call me dummy or silly or stupid. Is that your idea of being romantic?” She runs her hands over my chest, fiddles with the buttons. “Okay, honeybun, my sweet pumpkin pie, my foxy woxy cowboy.” I take her hands off my body. “I think I prefer silly. Those names might be sweet coming from anyone else. From you, a pumpkin is just a vegetable.” Ponda Mali’s noisy convoy stops outside the Police Post. As we step out, the obese politician rolls down his window and catcalls. “Officer Sophia, you look good enough to eat.” Sophia puts a hand on her gun. “Please stop me before I shoot the bastard.”