Narok Governor Samuel Tunai has endorsed former Labour Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick ole Ntutu as his preferred successor. Tunai endorsed Ntutu during a development tour in Narok East subcounty on Friday. He himself is running for Senate. He commissioned carpeting and rehabilitation of the Junction-Nairegi Enkare road, opened a milk cooler and market in Nairegi Enkare and later inspected the Ilkiragarien health centre. In attendance were Patrick Ntutu, Narok East MP Ken Aramat and UDA Narok Women Representative aspirant Rebecca Tonkei. This is a major boost for Ntutu, who was recently declared by Deputy President William Ruto as the UDA gubernatorial candidate for the governor's seat after a consensus deal. Narok Woman Representative Soipan Tuya and Narok West MP Gabriel Tongoyo dropped their bids and unanimously agreed to support Ntutu for the UDA ticket. Leaders and residents have been pushing the governor to name the person who he will like to take over when he leaves office in August after serving for completing two terms. “I will be comfortable to leave this office to a person who will unite all the people and who is also a development-conscious leader and that is Patrick ole Ntutu,” Tunai said. He plans to run for Senate. While urging the Narok residents to stop gambling with the county leadership Tunai said Ntutu is a humble person who has been tried and tested and is approachable. “The family of former paramount chief Lerionka ole Ntutu (deceased) is well known in this county and what they have done for the people is great. That qualifies Patrick Ntutu to be next governor,” Tunai said. The governor said he would be happy to leave the seat to a person who will continue and accomplish his legacy. “I will go everywhere to ensure he gets many voters and wins the seat,” he said. He condemned Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta, who was vying for governor on the ODM ticket, for perpetuating divisive and tribal politics. “As the leaders, we will resist such leadership that aims at dividing people along tribal lines but instead ensure those people who are voted exercise their leadership across all the communities in Narok,” he said. The county boss also said that Kenta does not deserve the seat because he has failed in the leadership test having proved that his only agenda is to "settle scores with others communities" and that is not acceptable in today’s society. Ntutu asked leaders not to make comments that can cause panic and despondency. “Politicians must to weigh their words while making public utterances lest they cause unnecessary tribal tension among the communities,” Ntutu said. He said the leaders should always be in the forefront promoting cohesion and national values to  build a healthy and united nation devoid of tribalism. (Edited by V. Graham)