Content creator Diana Marua has denied claims her husband Bahati has been gifting her empty flashy things. Fans accused the couple of pulling publicity stunts while advertising for car dealers and real estate. During Valentine's Day, Bahati gifted Diana a title deed, a Prado TX and a fully furnished mansion. He bragged, "I have taken time to get you this gift because this has been your dream for so long. This is your gift, you can be proud of it and be proud that you own it… I know you have been waiting for so long and I know you are not expecting this but... "You are now a proud owner of this mansion, and it's fully furnished." Diana reacted to the massive gift, thanking Bahati. "I love you so much. My baby got me a chopper ride to surprise me with a new house, a whole mansion. Thank you God for teaching me patience. You indeed make it beautiful in your own time." "My king Bahati, I am overwhelmed with joy, with gratitude. I still don't have words to explain how I feel. Thank you for giving us the best, a whole palace. I am the happiest woman on earth right now! Welcome to the Bahatis' residence, omg." Well, this is among many gifts that the couple have been gifting each other. Last year, Diana also gifted Bahati with a Mercedes on Valentine's Day. In an update on her Instagram, Diana updated her fans on why she was yet to use the car and mansion. ⁣She said that she had taken the Prado TX to the shop for some custom works and had received it on Saturday. ⁣Flaunting her now pimped-out Prado, she said she was excited about the grille lights, which were flickering in blue and red.⁣ "The number plate is not yet out but as soon as I get, all of you will know! I'm super excited."⁣ ⁣She also explained why she has not moved into the new mansion⁣, saying it was out of consideration of her children's school calendar.⁣ "Let's just put it out there because mnasema sijui ni fake, ni fake. It's because of school. Babies are still in school but I thank God that they are doing their exams. By March 10, we will have moved in," she said. "I'm literally looking at my life right now and I'm like, 'God has smiled at me'. He has wiped away my tears and silenced those who hated about me. What do you have to say now?" she said.