Hundreds of tourists from Eastern Europe are stranded at the Coast due to the war between Ukraine and Russia. Hoteliers at the Coast have confirmed that tourists from Ukraine, Russia, Bulgaria, Romania and other Eastern European countries are in Kenya. However, majority of those tourists are from Ukraine because Mombasa has been receiving a weekly charter flight from the cities of Odessa and Kyiv. Most of the Ukrainian tourists are in hotels in Mombasa and the South Coast. Mohammed Hersi, a veteran hotelier at the Coast and the immediate former chairperson of the Kenya Tourism Federation, confirmed that at least 500 Ukrainian tourists might be stranded in Kenya. Hersi who spoke on Monday in a phone interview with the Star said that Ukraine is an emerging new tourists’ source market for Kenya. “The tourists were on holiday in Kenya, but cannot go back home due to the current situation in Ukraine,” he said. Sam Ikwaye, the coast executive director of the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers said the entire Eastern Europe market has been affected by the raging war in Ukraine. He said hundreds of tourists who were arriving from Ukraine and Russia, through charter flights and the normal scheduled flights, have now shelved or postponed their trips. “Mombasa signed a partnership with the Odessa city through the Sister Cities programme. We have been receiving weekly charter flights from Ukraine, which was turning out to be a key source market for Mombasa and Kenya’s south Coast,” Ikwaye said on Tuesday. However, he said this market has now been affected. The KAHC director said the Coast region was expecting hundreds of tourists from Eastern Europe this Easter holiday, but the bookings have now been cancelled. “This war has not only affected Ukraine and Russia, but many tourists in Europe have now developed the ‘wait and see’ kind of thinking. We might lose that market this Easter holiday,” he said. Ikwaye said for the tourists who are stranded in Kenya, the government should plan on how to extend their visas and the hotels they are staying in should offer good packages for them. His sentiments are supported by Julius Owino, the chief executive officer of the Kenya Coast Tourists Association. Owino said globally the issue of Ukraine is now viewed from a humanitarian perspective. “We urge the government to work with the consulates and embassies of the affected countries, to see how best they can extend the visas of tourists stranded in Kenya. Most countries have extended those visas by up to six months,” he said. Mombasa was expecting to receive up to 5,000 Ukrainian tourists by the end of May through the charter flights. Finance executive Mariam Mbaraka said they are optimistic that the situation in Ukraine will normalise so that flights can resume. “The current situation is not good for our region. It has adverse effects because we are not only losing the Ukrainian market, but also the entire Eastern Europe,” she said. Meanwhile, Mbaraka said they are engaging the Ukrainian Embassy in Kenya to see how they can help those stranded in Mombasa. “We hope that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)