A section of the Eastern Bypass will be closed for two months to allow construction of a bridge. The road is being expanded and dualled at a cost of Sh12.2 billion. Work is set to be complete by June this year. In a public notice by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura), the closure will take place from March 3 to May 3, 2022. “Kura wishes to notify the public that a section of the Eastern Bypass at the Kangundo Road junction overpass will be closed for bridge construction from March 3, 2022 to May 3,2022,” the notice reads. Motorists heading to Embakasi will be diverted to the slip road below the overpass. Kura has advised motorists and pedestrians to take precautions when approaching that section of the road and strictly follow diversions as guided by traffic signs and traffic marshalls on site. “We request the public to be patient as we work to improve road safety and enhance urban mobility,” reads the notice. Kura director general Silas Kinoti said traffic snarl ups on the road are caused by motorists who overlap. The 28km road starts at City Cabanas along Mombasa Road, passes through Ruai towards Ruiru, passes over Thika Road to Ruaka where it joins the Northern Bypass. The bypass was initially constructed as a single carriageway. Since it was completed in 2014, however, considerable urbanisation and commerce have emerged along its corridor and traffic volume has increased significantly. The Eastern Bypass dualling was among 11 major infrastructure initiatives Kenya showcased to international investors during the Belt and Road Forum in Beijing, China, in May 2017. Transport CS James Macharia said such an infrastructural project would be beneficial to Kenyans as they create employment and promote local suppliers. He said the project has employed 660 young people. The project will include installation of other amenities like street lights and walkways. The CS said out of Sh12.5 billion for the Eastern Bypass, Sh5 billion was for local sourcing of building materials. “We insist on local materials and labour, this way the money will be pumped back into the economy,” he said. Edited by A.N