For those of us whose lives always circulated around our parents, moving far away from home for university was a big relief. My classmate Melissa was one of them, and she thought as much, without anyone having to tell her the dos and the don’ts. With her stunning beauty, this was a great opportunity. She had always wanted to be the centre of attraction and the talk of the town, and she achieved that. At the university, her name was on everyone’s lips every single day. But was everything that came out of the students’ lips about the girl who referred to herself as ‘dotcom’ positive? Melissa did not care. She was a 20-year-old girl whose only concern was to enjoy herself to the fullest. Nothing else. Freedom, they say, is good. But of equal importance is how it is used. If freedom is used negatively, the repercussions can be overwhelming. Due to peer pressure, Melissa secured a ‘sponsor’ who would cater for almost all of her personal needs. Living a life that was not actually hers was not easy, so she needed another benefactor who would fill her account each time she ran out of cash. She knew she had gone too far. Unlike her friends, she was not an expert at this game, but she wanted to outsmart them so she could be considered the leader of her clique. Dating students from university and older men at the same time had become the norm for Melissa. Entire semesters would elapse without her touching a book. She no longer saw the importance of education. Concerned lecturers admonished her to change her ways but she gave them all a deaf ear. Drug and substance abuse were long believed to be the preserve of the male gender, but this was not the case anymore. Students, including pretty, young women, smoked bhang, sniffed cocaine and chewed miraa in the corridors after dark. They often sat in groups, chanting loudly and making merry as they took the drugs, and Melissa was among them. In the short period she had been in the institution, she had known almost all the drug dealers or mapedi, as they are commonly known. This was the straw that broke the camel’s back. Due to their unceasing theft of other students’ properties, she and her fellow drug addicts had become a thorn in the flesh of the university. They were suspended from school for a year. Left with no one else to turn to, Melissa sought solace from her ‘sponsor’ “Please find your way out of here. My business with you is finished. Why would a man of my calibre consider dating a woman like you?  I wanted to sleep with you. And now that I have, I’m dumping you, just like everyone else did,” he said. This was too much for Melissa to bear.  The sudden turn of events left her wondering if she still had a life to live. The man she had put all her hopes in, the man her life depended on, the man whose wealth and sweet words had given her a reason to live had turned against her. She could not hold back her tears. Before Melissa left, these were her last words to us, her classmates: “If you don’t train yourself to live in this world, the world will train you to live in it.”  To my fellow youths: Always strive to go higher. Never use the golden opportunity of being in a university or college to waste your life by abusing the freedom given to you. Freedom can be good, but if you use it wrongly, then it will turn out to be harmful.