A group of youths in Embu have gifted a 48-year-old man with a house. Vincent Njeru, who lives with disability, had been spending his nights in a cold shanty. He now owns a home in Kigumo, Embu East. Njeru on Tuesday said he hardly affords food, forcing him to rely on his neighbours for help. He said his situation worsened after he fell ill. He was forced to refrain from his cobbler business which used to earn him a living. Njeru thanked the youths who came to his rescue saying he had gone through a lot of suffering. "The place I used to call my house felt like torture. It was cold and rain water flooded the house making it difficult to sleep,” he said. Njeru said his health issues immobilised him and he always spent his days outside. The resident who is known as “Kamachine” by his neighbours said he feels like all his problems are solved and praised the youths for their good gesture. Youth coordinator Fanta Murithi said they first heard of Njeru from the neighbours who said he was in dire need of help. He then organised a visit with some friends and brought Njeru some foodstuffs. “However, upon arriving, we found that he needed a house, clothes and other utilities,” Murithi said. He said they organised a team of friends and businesspeople who helped build Njeru a house. He said the team responded positively and offered different kinds of resources needed. Murithi said it took them two weeks to build the one-bedroom house. The youths upon handing over the house to Njeru also rewarded him with kitchenware, beddings, clothes and foodstuffs. According to the World Bank, Kenya has an annual housing demand of 250,000 units and supplies an estimated 50,000 units annually. This results in an 80 per cent deficit. The survey further shows that among the formally constructed houses only two per cent target low-income earners. Casty Muthoni one of Njeru's neighbours said the community leadership should identify people with disability and register them. She said having them register under the National Council of People Living With Disability will help them receive state recognition. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)