Kisumu ODM party officials have raised the alarm over alleged plans to disrupt an Azimio La Umoja rally on Friday. Led by county ODM party chairman Ayiecho Olweny, they claimed that a politician plans to cause chaos during the rally, which will be attended by party chief Raila Odinga. Olweny, accompanied by Kisumu Central ODM chairman Seth Ochieng alias Adui and Seme ODM chairman Leonard Ochar, said on Tuesday they had received reports there was such a scheme. He said they notified police for immediate action. “Police are aware of the matter and we believe they will swiftly take the necessary action,” he said. They spoke to journalists at Azimio La Umoja regional office. Olweny urged party members and supporters to shun politicians out to cause mayhem. He said ODM supporters should be peaceful and accord Raila a warm reception. “We want the Azimio meeting to be exciting, successful and peaceful. We want to remind everybody that the rally is for Raila and anybody planning any form of violence should desist from such,” he said. The chairman warned politicians dishing out money to youths to cause chaos and heckle other leaders to desist from such acts. “Youths should not be misled into causing chaos. Raila is our father and must be respected alongside his visitors,” Olweny said. Ochieng, who is the Market/Milimani MCA, urged ODM supporters not to listen to politicians who are preaching violence against other leaders. “We want everybody on board but those who are not interested in our rally should organise theirs at a different date and venue. There are many venues where anybody is entitled to organise his or her rally,” he said. Ochieng said it was unfortunate that some politicians have been dishing out money to youth to cause chaos. “Some of these politicians are walking with youths armed with knives, pangas, rungus and guns. This must end,” Ochieng said. Olweny and his team denied claims they were to blame for the rising tensions in Kisumu following their open endorsement of some aspirants for some seats. He said party nominations have yet to be conducted and they have only expressed their wishes as ODM members. "The party primaries will be conducted by the ODM national elections board and whoever will be nominated will carry the day,” Olweny said. Edited by A.N