President Uhuru Kenyatta has witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Kenya and Moderna to establish the first mRNA manufacturing facility in Africa. The state-of-the-art mRNA facility in Africa is expected to produce up to 500 million doses of vaccines each year. The Company anticipates investing up to $500 million(Sh57b) in the new facility, which will focus on drug substance manufacturing on the continent of Africa for the continent of Africa. Uhuru has been in fore front championing for the African continent  to manufacture its own COVID-19 vaccines in order to meet the demand of its population. "Setting up of the mRNA manufacturing facility will be a game changer especially for Kenya who has had a vision to produce vaccines,"Uhuru said. “We are celebrating one of the greatest things  that has possibly happened since the onset of COVID-19 at the African continent." Uhuru thanked Moderna company for coming up to fill the space. “We all know the challenges that Kenya and the entire continent of Africa went through in the earlier stages of this pandemic that resulted in Africa being left behind. Not because of want but because of lack and moderna  has come to fill that space," he said. “We are truly grateful, for this and I think it will be transformative not just in helping us with the current pandemic but also preparing the continent of Africa for future pandemics." Moderna’s Chief Executive Officer Stéphane Bancel said  his company is committed to partnering  to provide a health solution saying the investment the company is making in Kenya is crucial as it is part of the solution to ensuring  global health equity. “We announce another step in this journey – an investment in the Republic of Kenya to build a drug substance mRNA manufacturing facility capable of supplying up to 500 million doses for the African continent each year,”Bancel said. He said the mRNA global public health vaccine program, including vaccine programs against HIV and Nipah, will ensure sustainable access to transformative mRNA innovation on the African continent. Director for Africa Centre for Disease Control Dr. John Nkengasong said the setting up of the facility is critical to Africa’s security noting that the production of the vaccines will ensure the continent is able to tackle current and future  health challenges. Health Cabinet Secretary  Mutahi Kagwe signed the MOU on behalf of the Government while Shannon Klinger who is the Moderna’s chief legal officer signed on behalf of the company. Also present during the function were the Head of Public Service Dr. Joseph Kinyua, Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache and Director General  of Health  Dr. Patrick Amoth among other senior Government officials.