Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has joined Azimio and resolved to support ODM leader Raila Odinga clinch the presidency. This comes days after Meru Senator Mithika Linturi announced he would be contesting the Meru gubernatorial seat on UDA ticket. The governor spoke on Tuesday night during the Devolution Empowerment Party delegates meeting which Raila attended. The meeting was held at St Michaels Catholic Church hall in Makutano shopping centre, Meru. About 500 delegates were drawn from the three Mt Kenya East counties of Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Meru and Isiolo. Kiraitu said Raila should consider restoring Mt Kenya East that is currently feeling economically neglected and discriminated. He said although it’s a productive region with coffee, bananas, tea, miraa and milk, all have challenges. “I had a discussion with Raila and he promised to uplift our agriculture. He also promised to work on the about 102 stalled state projects and start new ones,” Kiraitu said. The governor who read an MoU in the meeting said he also wants Mt Kenya East to get a share of national seats in Raila's government. “Our people do not want to be in opposition and that is why we have decided to join Azimio," he said. Kiraitu said he will campaign for Raila to ensure he garners more votes in the region. He said among the presidential candidates, he realised only Raila has been consistent with increased allocation to devolved units. Kiraitu's entry could be a big catch for Raila since Kiraitu boasts of being undefeated in his 30-year political career. He once won a seat with Ford Kenya and campaigned for Raila's father Jaramogi Odinga. He was also Raila's lawyer in 1984 when Raila was arrested. Meru deputy governor Titus Ntochiu, former Tigania West MP Lilemi Mwiria and former Embu senator Lenny Kivuti who is vying for Embu governor attended the meeting. Others were Devolution of Empowerment Party secretary Mugambi Imanyara and former Nithi MP Petkay Miriti. Raila was accompanied by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Kakamega Governor Wyclife Oparanya. Ntochiu said their political rivals were threatening them to join Deputy President William Ruto. He however said they were looking for a suitable candidate who will look into the interest of Meru residents. On his part, Raila said he knows the problems facing Mt Kenya East and he will not forget them if he clinches the presidency. The ODM boss also poked holes into DP Ruto's comments during his London tour. Ruto had said BBI derailed the delivery of work which they had planned with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Raila however said his association with Uhuru has not affected service delivery in any way. He said Ruto offers promises which he cannot fulfil. “The Jubilee government promised many projects which they did not implement, for instance, the laptop projects and the one million jobs," Raila said. He said it's laughable that Ruto is now promising four million jobs. "If he failed to attain one million how can he attain four million.” The ODM leader is expected to hold a rally in Maili Tatu, Igembe Central and then proceed to Kianjai in Tigania West where Kiraitu will join Azimio in front of a crowd of Meru residents. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)