Trouble is brewing at the Nairobi County Assembly where MCAs are divided on how Governor Ann Kananu is running city hall. A section of Nairobi MCAs on Thursday came out to defend the governor over allegations made by their colleagues. Led by Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya, the MCAs drawn from both the Jubilee and ODM condemned the attacks stating that the Governor should not be arm-twisted or blackmailed for personal reasons. "As members of the City County Assembly, we are guided by the rule of law and our mandates are legislation, representation and oversight," Obuya said. Early this week, Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu and his Utalii counterpart Wilson Ochola questioned Kananu's leadership accusing her of neglecting the county to focus on personal issues. "The biggest mistake made was to elevate Kananu to lead this city. She is an absentee Governor who is never available to address issues of Nairobi residents," Kiragu stated. He pledged to table a motion to discuss problems arising from what he termed Kananu's incompetence. Utalii MCA Ocholla alleged that the Governor had forsaken the small scale contractors by failing to pay their arrears. "Thousands of suppliers are still roaming around City Hall yet the governor is in a campaign mood and seems too careless,” he stated. Obuya rubbished his colleagues' remarks saying MCAs' responsibilities do not include checking on how, when and where members of the Executive socialize. The MCAs further defended governor Kananu on the delayed payment of suppliers saying the governor the budget is approved by the Controller of Budget and not the governor. "The issue of payment to suppliers, money has to be released from the treasury upon approval from the controller of budget. The Governor has no control on how or when the money will be released," Obuya added. Karen MCA David Mberia said that MCAs should use the right channels and committees such as the Powers and Privileges Committee to voice their concerns. "We are viewing these attacks as personal. As MCAs, we have three responsibilities: legislate, oversight and represent," Mberia said. Kware MCA Rose Kula referred to her two colleagues as 'serial attackers " against women. "This is clear that women leadership is always under siege. The two MCAs should understand that Governor Kananu is a woman in leadership just like most of us and should be respected "Kula said. The MCAs called on their colleagues to apologize to the office of the Governor or face consequences. "We are giving the two members 24 hours to apologize otherwise we shall have no alternative but to submit their names to the Powers and Privileges Committee for necessary action," Obuya said.