@alalmaurice Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has temporarily banned election campaign billboards and posters in the Central Business District until May 25. Nyong'o said this will give room for the advertisement of the ninth edition Africities summit in the CBD, from May 17-21. The summit had earlier been slated for April 2021 but postponed due to Covid-19. The city will host 10,000 delegates during the five-day event. The governor spoke on Tuesday when he met a delegation from Cameroon led by Jean Aloise. Nyong’o, in a directive published in the local dailies on February 28, said the orders take effect immediately. He said the campaign materials be temporarily redirected to other parts of the city. The governor said hosting the summit will open up opportunities to the people. This, he said, will directly impact agriculture, business, blue economy, entrepreneurship and place Kisumu on the international map. The directive has elicited public uproar, especially from politicians who had erected billboards. They faulted and questioned how they will get value for their money. Nyong’o said after consultation with Kisumu International Airport management, the city will receive direct flights from Cameroon during the summit. “We had a discussion with the airport manager Selina Gor and had an agreement,” he said. Cameroon will send more than 100 delegates, 30 junior mayors, 10 senior mayors, 10 governors and two ministers to the conference. The Cameroon delegation said they are impressed with the preparation and available accommodation facilities in Kisumu. Aloise said they were in the city to inspect the venue and hotels for their delegation. He said they will seal business deals with the county government and national government. They have shown interest in the port. “We have been taken around the city and we are impressed and look forward to doing business together before and after the summit,” Aloise said. The Africities summit secretariat member Aloice Ager said, 360 hotels with a bed capacity of 9,300 have been inspected and approved by the tourism regulatory authority. Currently, the registration of delegates is ongoing. About 3,000 international delegates have so far registered. He said the listing of Air BnB is ongoing and ready for booking. “People with such facilities are encouraged to approach the county government for inspection,” Ager said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris