Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has called for an investigation into the Miwani Sugar factory botched takeover that led to the death of two people on Wednesday afternoon. Several others were injured and two vehicles razed during the chaos. Crossley Holdings Limited is claiming ownership of the 10,000 acres belonging to Miwani, which is under receivership. Nyong’o, while condemning the incident and sending his condolences to the families, said the activities that led to the violence were reckless and unlawful. He appealed to the authorities to launch investigations into the matter and bring those responsible to book. “I ask our people to resist attempts to lure them into illegal and violent schemes, especially as we approach the general elections," he said. This comes as Miwani land settlers and factory workers lawyer David Otieno said that the process was illegal and the people who initiated the take over should be held responsible for lost lives. Otieno said while it's true that there was a court judgment on 30th September, 30, 2021, that ordered on the nuclear estate. He said, however, the court never issued an eviction order in favour of Crossely. “We don’t have  the information regarding the identity of the auctioneer alleged to have invaded the property and it is unsafe and ill advice for an auctioneer to take such decisions without involving the security  agencies," Otieno said. The lawyer said that they have gathered from their client that the local security agencies were completely unaware of what was going on. “The loss of life is unfortunate. I talked to my colleague handling CHL case and he confirmed to me that he did not know what was going on," he said. "We can only assume that probably his own client had decided to initiate a process not known to law to possess the property." Otieno said that they have also confirmed from the court file, and it shows that the court did not issue any eviction orders to any auctioneer. He says their was also no warrant issued to another auctioneer to recover anything from the sugar factory. “The Wednesday events were premature, illegal and the people who initiated it should take responsibility for what happened including the loss of life and damage of property”. He however noted that they have not made a formal complaint regarding what happened because they don’t know who was behind the chaos. The company appealed the decision by Justice Anthony Ombwayo in October last year which ruled in favour of CHL. A date is yet to be set for the hearing. (Edited by Tabnacha O)