The Jubilee Party grassroots mobilisation is gaining momentum ahead of party nominations next month. The party is trying to rejuvenate itself. Political aspirants from Embakasi Central this week campaigned for a vigorous 'new' party. Led by Assembly Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo, the legislators said it was time to start campaigning in earnest and President Uhuru Kenyatta had given them the go-ahead. “Our party leader has officially unleashed us to campaign and we have come to sell the agenda and face our opponents head-on," he said. Guyo urged residents to have faith in the party as it’s the vehicle their leadership will use in bargaining for seats in the next government. Various reports have cited Jubilee infighting, disorganisation, ineffectiveness, far from the Jubilee juggernaut that awed the nation in 2017. Jubilee Nominated MCA June Ndegwa who is also eyeing a parliamentary seat, called upon the residents to support and vote for women leaders. The leaders said they will be hold several subcounty meetings to ensure Jubilee embers get party tickets. They said they are optimistic Jubilee Party will retain the majority of all seats in Embakasi Central. Embakasi Central has five wards; Matopeni/Spring Valley, Komarock, Kayole North, Kayole Central and Kayole South, all but one represented by Jubilee members. From the Jubilee Party is Abdi Hassan, MCA for Matopeni; John Kamau for Komarock, Jeremiah Themendu for Kayole Central, Samuel Mwangi  for Kayole North, and ODM’s Fredrick Okeyo for Kayole South. The National Alliance's (TNA)’s John Ndirangu was the first MP  for Embakasi Central in 2013 after winning with 38,242 votes. Benjamin Mwangi  is the current MO who won in 2017 on the Jubilee ticket. However, he is seeking re-election for a second term under  Deputy President William Ruto's favoured party, the United Democratic Alliance. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said Embakasi Central had 131,991 registered voters in 2017. In the last election, the IEBC said,the registered number of voters in Nairobi increased to 2,251,929 from 1,732,288  in 2013. Embakasi Central had 131,991 registered voters in the last elections. In Nairobi, in the 2017 elections, ODM presidential candidate Raila Odinga garnered 828,826 votes, while Jubilee’s Uhuru Kenyatta got 791,291 votes. Jubilee bagged nine constituencies, ODM got seven while Wiper got one. However, following the hoped-for revival of the Jubilee Party, President Kenyatta has pledged to ensure the party retains a majority in the National Assembly and Senate in the next administration. the President also promised it will capture the majority of governors and MCAs. After his official retirement, Kenyatta will continue to serve as the Jubilee Party leader. (Edited by V. Graham)