Wazito head coach Fred Ambani says his charges exhibited exceptional character in the face of tough opposition to squeeze out a crucial point from Kariobangi Sharks after the sides battled to a two-all draw at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Friday. The tactician, who was presiding over his third match after taking the reigns from Francis Kimanzi — who was sacked in February —  expressed optimism the team would wrap up the season in a respectable position. “The team generally did well. Kariobangi Sharks gave us a run for our money and I'm happy we managed to come out with a point at full time,” Ambani said. His opposite number, William Muluya extolled his team after they brushed aside the early scare to rally from a goal down. “It wasn't an easy match. We were battling a well-organised side and I'm happy that we managed a point even though winning would have been the most gratifying thing,” Muluya said. Wazito momentarily fell behind after squandering an early lead but their resilience ensured they didn't emerge from the match empty-handed. A sixth-minute strike by Curtis Wekesa fired Wazito ahead before Eric Mata restored parity seven minutes later. Geoffrey Shiveka then put Sharks in the lead in the 27th minute only for Rooney Onyango's 82nd-minute effort to secure a vital point for the struggling Wazito. The outcome leaves Kariobangi Sharks fourth on the log with 32 points while Wazito are 15th with 20. Meanwhile, leaders Kakamega Homeboyz have a tough battle against Posta Rangers on Saturday afternoon. Mathare United host Nzoia Sugar at Kasarani Annex as second-placed Nairobi City Stars lock horns with Bidco United at Thika Stadium. KCB battle Sofapaka at Kasarani Annex while champions Tusker have a date with Kenya Police at Ruaraka Grounds. After a torrid start to the season that left them rooted at the tail end of the table, the brewers have managed to rediscover their magic and their latest winning streak in four matches has fired them to fifth. 19-time Kenyan champions, Gor Mahia, host Ulinzi Stars at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. K'Ogalo will use the facility for their home matches after they were banned from hosting their matches at Moi Stadium, Kasarani following crowd trouble in their last league encounter against Vihiga Bullets, which they won 1-0. Gor have also identified Bukhungu Stadium as an alternative venue. On Sunday, AFC Leopards will battle Bandari at Nyayo Stadium while bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets host fellow debutants FC Talanta at Bukhungu Stadium.