Over 500 swimmers drawn from seven counties have confirmed participation for the Kenya Swimming Federation (KSF) Gala slated for March 12-13 Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The seven counties are —Kajiado, Nairobi, Mombasa, Machakos, Kilifi, Uasin Gishu, and Kiambu. Nairobi will provide the bulk of the competitors with around 300 participants, according to the organisers, County Caucus Swimming Group,  chairman Kenneth Karani. "Majority of the swimmers from Nairobi took part in the KSF National CollegiateAthletics Association (NCAA Gala)held at Makini School last weekend,” said Karani. He added:" We had over 250 swimmers competing at the event and a good number of them will also take part in the national event in two weeks' time." Karani said the counties had taken up the initiative due to the lack of support from the John Ohaga-led Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) which runs the sport with some of its members opposed to the gala. "We have had no option but to team up with other counties to give swimmers a chance to compete and qualify for various international events,” he noted. Karani said the sport is recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic which had greatly affected various swimming events. "Covid really affected the sport but we are slowly picking up and we have had our swimmers compete in various events. However, we need the management of sport to be streamlined and elections held." Elsewhere, Rebecca Kamau won gold and bronze at the Atlantic Championship held in Ohio, Cleveland on Monday. Kamau won the 200m breaststroke in 2:12.05, breaking her own record from earlier in the year.  She added a bronze in the 100m breaststroke. Maria Brunlehner, a first-year student at the Grand Canyon University (GCU) won gold in 100 breaststrokes, another one in the 100 individual medleys, and a silver in 50m freestyle at the Western Athletic Conference Championship. Emily Muteti, a senior at the GCU won gold in  100 butterfly, silver in 50 freestyle, and a bronze in 100 freestyle. They all made 'B' qualifying cuts for the NCAA national finals next month.