Sportpesa has inked a deal with Football Federation of Kenya to sponsor all the 43 teams that play in Murang’a county league. The deal will cover 33 men teams and 10 women teams. They will play free of charge in the league. Previously, teams were required to pay Sh21,000 to enter the league, with the funds going towards covering administration costs. Each team was also required to pay Sh3,000 per game for match officials' payment and transport costs. Many of the teams were locked out of the league due to inability to raise the funds. However, Sportpesa has come-in to provide uniforms to the teams and cover administration and referee charges. According to Esther Kang’ethe, an advertising official at Sportpesa, the company heard the plight of players struggling to participate in the sport and decided to support them. Kang’ethe said the programme dubbed Dimba Itambe is a grassroots initiative aimed at promoting football in counties and will be extended to other counties after piloting in Murang’a. Speaking while launching the programme at Kimorori grounds in Kenol town on Sunday, Kang’ethe said most teams have had challenges in honouring fixtures due to financial constraints. Some women teams, she said, have been playing in dresses due to lack of uniforms “Sportpesa has been very passionate about football and nurturing talent among the youths and that is why in 2022, we decided to focus on the grassroots because talent starts here,” she said. County FKF chairperson Robert Macharia said when he took over the office last year, the county league had only 10 men teams. He, however, said the football has improved and four teams have progressed into the regional league. “This is why in this partnership, we decided to get a team from all the villages to promote the sport. From today, they will not be paying anything to play,” he said. Macharia said sports have become a profession like any other and appealed to youths to continue embracing it to enhance their talents. He said the organisation will continue seeking sponsors to cater for players' food and transport. He, however, said the ban by Federation International Football Association has had a negative effect on local players. Last year, the Sports ministry disbanded FKF over alleged misappropriation and appointed a caretaker committee prompting the ban from Fifa over government interference. Macharia called on the government to meet with stakeholders and find a solution to the situation. He said careers of professional referees and coaches participating in international leagues have been affected. “I know a referee who officiated in the African Cup of Nations and the World cup but now he cannot participate in such events because of the ban,” he said. The government, Macharia said, should deal with the errant individuals in a way that does not interfere with Fifa rules. “An entire sector should not suffer because of a few errant individuals. Let them be arrested and prosecuted,” he said. He appealed to residents to allow their children to engage in sports, which he said is a rewarding career. Macharia also appealed to the county to upgrade playing grounds which are in a poor state with some teams forced to share. Winnie Wanjiku, a player with Githundi Starlet Queens, lauded the partnership saying it will give women an opportunity to play. "Our team has only participated once due to financial issues but from today, we will always play," she said. Benedicto Kimani from Githunguri FC said ensuring youths are engaged in sports will draw many from notorious activities. "We practice from Tuesday to Saturday so we have no time to do drugs or crime," he said