Divisive politics make fair determination of presidential petitions very difficult in Kenya, former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga has warned. Be prepared for tough times, he told Chief Justice Martha Koome during the launch of his book Beacons of the Judiciary at the University of Nairobi on Friday last week. CJ Koome is likely to encounter vicious partisanship in a widely expected petition challenging the outcome of the August presidential election. Whatever the outcome. Mutunga  said the decision made would brew discontent and criticism, no matter who was at the helm of the Judiciary. “Even if it was King Solomon, he would be driven out of town,” Mutunga quipped on Friday. Mutunga said he was praised and criticised in equal measure, recounting how he received "a thunderous standing ovation" when he swore in President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I couldn’t help but wonder what would have happened to me had I been in Kisumu or Kitui where the Cord coalition people were,” he said He continued, “Presidential elections are a very difficult proposition, especially when the country is ruled by politics of division. It is almost impossible to get a national consensus." Mutunga said his book, titled Beacons of Judiciary Transformation, will complement the institutional transformation of the Judiciary which started in 2016. He said strengthening the Judiciary’s independence and capacity through robust constructive interdependence is a continuing struggle. It is one of the beacons in his book. “If you capture a Judiciary as a politician, how sure are you that your enemies will not recapture it after you leave and come after you? Where will you run to?” he asked. The launch was attended by Justice Koome and her predecessor, former Chief Justice David Maraga, former Chief Justice of Tanzania Justice Osman Thande and other legal luminaries. They honoured Mutunga for his role in transforming the Judiciary. Koome praised Mutunga for leaving behind an impactful blueprint, the Judicial Training Institute, to anchor reforms for strong institutional capacity. “We ought not to be borrowing from decisions outside Kenya with the 2010 Constitution. Our problems are local and require local solutions,” she said. Mutunga said the beacons in his book will guide the Judiciary on many issues based on his experiences and the experiences of other people. Beacons of Judiciary Transformation, as described by Tom Odhiambo, a lecturer at the University of Nairobi, is a menu of commentary on literally every subject of public importance in Kenya. “There is something for everyone who would like to know Willy Mutunga’s thoughts on a diverse range of subjects. "The nature of an anthology of selected speeches, writings and opinions also means that this is a book that can be read from any section,” Odhiambo said. The foreword of the book is written by Albie Sachs, age 85, a South African activist and a former judge appointed by Nelson Mandela to serve on the first Constitutional Court of South Africa. Sachs was part of the team that helped Kenya reform its Judiciary. He noted that Mutunga’s character and attire when he was promoted to  Chief Justice in 2012 spoke to a transformation of culture and language in the Judiciary. Mutunga wore a plain suit instead of a judicial robe and wore his usual ear stud when he was sworn in. It was more than a fashion statement, it was a statement about change, and predictably drew mixed reactions. He also dropped the legal jargon and instead spoke in layman’s language while talking to the people at the staircase outside the Judiciary — not the arid, impenetrable jargon and flummery — as had been the custom. His words and actions, even his dress, Mutuga said in his book, were part of humanising the institution of the Judiciary to the public. “That is why I joined Twitter as a CJ and was able to get feedback directly from the people,” he said. He said 95 per cent of Kenyans don’t go to the courts and would rather seek justice anywhere else, including from witchdoctors, which is difficult to institutionalise. (Edited by V. Graham)