ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday cut short his speech for about five minutes after a man engaged his security detail at Makadara shopping centre in Athi River, Machakos County. Raila had just commenced his speech during the Azimio la Umoja political rally in the town when the man started shouting 'Baba, Joho" as he pushed through the security personnel. Attempts by Raila's security detail to control the tall masculine man donned in sheds, black mask and a cap were futile. He pushed them forth as they tried to hold him back with tens of youth also shouting and pushing the security detail. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho at one point ordered the security to allow the man get to the dais but he was shoved back. "Joho ananiita, Joho ananiita," the man shouted at the security detail. Athi River subcounty police commander Anderson Njagi was in command of police officers who provided security to the former Prime Minister and his Azimio la Umoja brigade. When the situation worsened, Raila cut his speech and ordered his security to allow the man get to him at the main dais. The man continued shouting 'Baba, baba, baba" as he pushed the security. He got to the dais and waved at the crowd. He only stopped shouting on the persuasion of the ODM leader. Raila continued with his speech as some other youths shouted 'scrap metal.' The youths wanted Raila to address the ban on scrap metal by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Most of the youth who worked in several steel making factories in Athi River and its environs have since been rendered jobless following the ban by the Head of state. In response, Raila said, "We want our people to get jobs. Jua kali and informal sector. We will formalise the informal sector. We will construct sheds for jua kali so that people can get there to do business." He gave examples of Korea, Malaysia and India which he said had models worth emulating. "I came from India recently. Jua kali, informal sector will be formalised to become formal. We will boost micro, small and medium enterprises," Raila said.