The EU Delegation to Kenya has accused the media of skewed reporting on racism and cases of discrimination against Africans fleeing Ukraine. “The EU regrets the incorrect and skewed media reporting on this issue that has repeatedly appeared in various Kenyan outlets and social media, and calls for careful verification of the facts,” the EU said in a statement on Wednesday. Saying deliberate disinformation is being spread in some cases, the EU said embassies present in Kenya are ready to provide accurate data. The Embassy of Germany, too, on Twitter asked Kenyans to verify fake news about Africans being discriminated against in Ukraine. The mission said information should be verified before being posted on social media. "We also note with concern the many rumours circulating on #KoT (Kenyans on Twitter) regarding this topic as well," the embassy tweeted. Four EU countries neighbouring Ukraine also denied cases of discrimination against Kenyans and Africans fleeing the Russian invasion. In the statement, the EU said contrary to media reports, Kenyans who have arrived at the borders of Slovakia, Hungary and Romania have been assisted and allowed to enter safely. It said the usual entry requirements have been waived. “No visa, no vaccination, and even no passport is needed for entry”. “The four EU member states reacted immediately to the crisis, lifting or limiting restrictions to enter their territories. Between February 24 and 28, over 350 000 persons crossed the Polish-Ukrainian border, among them 7,721 Africans, including 88 Kenyans,” the statement said. This has been corroborated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which on Tuesday said 79 students had been marked safe, 74 in Poland, two in Romania, two in Hungary, one back to Kenya and four voluntarily still in Ukraine. More Kenyans are, however, still stranded as 201 had been confirmed to be living in Ukraine. The EU added that in the last four days, 4,150 people from 40 African countries fled from the invasion into Slovakia. “Likewise, Romania and Hungary have exempted third party nationals from visa requirements for transit purposes, and those nevertheless seeking visas could obtain them at the border points. Romania has supported a large number of students, including 3,000 Indian students, to pass through without restrictions,” the statement said. The Embassy of Germany, however, also condemned cases of discrimination in Ukraine and on EU borders “no matter by whom or under which circumstance”. The mission acknowledged reports of Kenyan and African students and nationals caught up in the Russian attacks on Ukraine having difficulties accessing EU territory at the borders. “We take these reports very seriously. Every case is one too many,” the mission said. It, however, noted that the developments are not the policy of the EU or its member states. On the contrary, it said, as EU members, they all work on quick and pragmatic solutions for everyone fleeing the violence perpetrated by Russia in Ukraine. “Africans fleeing the Ukraine have already arrived in Germany and are being provided with support. We apply unbureaucratic solutions to anyone who needs a visa in these dramatic circumstances. "To our knowledge, these incidents are individual ones in an ongoing dramatic humanitarian crisis of the Russian President Putin’s making,” the statement added. The four missions were reacting to cases of Africans being denied the right to cross borders to safety, drawing condemnation from the African Union and individual African states. In a statement on February 28, AU chairman and Senegal President Macky Sall and Commission chairman Moussa Faki said all people have the right to cross international borders during conflict. The AU leaders said everyone should enjoy the same rights to cross to safety from the conflict in Ukraine, notwithstanding their nationality or racial identity. “Reports that Africans are singled out for unacceptable dissimilar treatment would be shockingly racist and in breach of international law. In this regard, the chairpersons urge all countries to respect international law and show the same empathy and support to all people fleeing war notwithstanding their racial identity,” the statement said. Addressing the UNSC on Monday, Kenya’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Martin Kimani called for non-discrimination against humanitarian responses. “There is credible news of African students being made to stand in the back of the queue when getting on trains and buses to safety. At some border crossings, they have been treated in a racist and undignified manner,” Kimani said. He added that the evidence of racist treatment is widely available and has been confirmed by various states in Africa and the Caribbean. However, the EU said the four member states have so far welcomed over half a million, mainly Ukrainian refugees over their borders, and more are likely to follow. Edited by A.N