Bunyore Starlets have been dealt a blow with three key players set to miss the derby match against Vihiga Queens on Sunday at Mumias Sports Complex. Juliana Kaupe, Shalyne Onjote, and Dedra Moshe are out with different problems. Kaupe, an attacking midfielder, is nursing a knee injury and will return to face Gaspo next weekend. Onjote and Moshe have ankle injuries with no time frame given for their recovery. The trio was instrumental in the team's promotion to the top tier last season and their absence gives coach Daniel Arunga a selection dilemma. "The team will make do without them on Sunday but we hope for some positive news in regards to the injuries at the start of next week," Arunga said. Giant-killers Bunyore are touted as the only team capable of stopping the high-flying Vihiga side who have registered 22 points from a possible 24 after eight matches. Gaspo remain the only team to take a point from the three-time champions this season following their 1-1 draw. In the FKF Women's Cup last season, Bunyore eliminated Oserian in post-match penalties, beat Nakuru 1-0 in the last 16 before losing to Vihiga by the same margin in quarters. Bunyore are seventh in the 12-team league with 12 points but are yet to win an away match. Arunga said being a derby, anything can happen and his charges will give a spirited fight to get a point as the bare minimum. "We know they beat Wadadia 8-1 but our match will be a different ball game altogether,"  quipped Arunga. "They are an experienced, well-oiled team that boasts quality but we will give them a run for their money. Our target is at least a point but we can reap maximum points too, why not?" Arunga bullishly remarked. To achieve their target, Arunga hinted at deploying a tactical approach. Playing on the break as well as closing down the spaces is the game plan for Bunyore. "Vihiga are very good on the ball so we have to press them high up the pitch and deny them the space to create chances. We will also need to be compact, sit back, and hit them on the counter but we have to avoid conceding goals first." 