Over 35 members of the Bungoma county assembly have endorsed Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka for Bungoma governor. Speaking at the Ken Lusaka Command Centre, the MCAs said it was only Lusaka who had the capacity to steer Bungoma county to development. The MCAs castigated the incumbent, Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, for letting  the county down by failing to implement his manifesto and  inability to curb corruption. Majority leader Joseph Nyongesa said they will be unveiling Lusaka on March 11 in a big rally at the Bungoma Posta grounds. “We know he is a leader who means well for the community and therefore as members of the assembly we have thrown our weight behind his bid,”said Nyongesa. He said Lusaka will also at the same time receive official support from the Ford Kenya party. Nyongesa said in the build up to the unveiling of Lusaka as the gubernatorial candidate they will hold numerous rallies across all the sub counties. “We have resolved to take his gospel to the grass roots as we wait for his official launch,”he said. Khalaba ward MCA Majimbo said the current regime in Bungoma had failed and eroded all the good Lusaka had done hence the reason they had decided to support the Senate speaker. “We will use all means humanly possible to ensure that the current governor is ousted,”said Majimbo. Majimbo said Wangamati had resorted to using violence to suppress opponents adding this should be brought to an end. Tongaren MCA Tindi Manaseh said they had decided to rally behind Lusaka because during his regime vulnerable farmers used to receive more subsidized fertilizer while bursaries were awarded in a  free and fair manner to everybody. “Our farmers no longer get subsidized fertilizer and bursary has remained a preserve of the well connected,”said Tindi. She said it was only through electing Lusaka that such programs will be returned. Lwandanyi MCA Tonny Barasa said Wangamati had failed to complete projects started by Lusaka like the high altitude center and the Lusaka roads. “Speaker Lusaka is coming to complete all these flagship projects that were stalled after he left ,”said Barasa . The MCAs resolved that they will ensure that they carry out meticulous campaigns at the grassroots to ensure that Lusaka wins the seat with a majority of  ward representatives. (Edited by Francis Wadegu) 