Everton have received an apology from the head of the professional referees body Mike Riley after they were denied a penalty in the 1-0 defeat by Manchester City on Saturday. The Toffees wrote to the Premier League to complain about the decision when Manchester City midfielder Rodri seemed to use his arm to control the ball. Neither referee Paul Tierney nor video assistant referee Chris Kavanagh deemed it was worthy of a spot-kick despite complaints from fans and Everton boss Frank Lampard. Professional Game Match Officials Limited (PGMOL) boss Riley called both Lampard and Everton chairman Bill Kenwright on Monday to apologise for the incident, which could prove costly to the club’s bid to stay in the Premier League. Kavanagh will be the referee for that match. “We’ve lost a point because of a professional who cannot do his job right. It is so incompetent to get it wrong,” Lampard said following the game at Goodison Park. Meanwhile, Manchester City and Ukraine defender Oleksandr Zinchenko on Monday called for governing bodies of sport to ban Russian athletes from international competitions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Athletes from Ukraine and other nations have called on international bodies to take action after Russia launched its invasion by land, air and sea last week following a declaration of war by President Vladimir Putin. Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a "special operation." Zinchenko's plea came shortly before the International Olympic Committee's executive board recommended on Monday that international sports federations ban Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from events, while Fifa are set to suspend Russia's national teams. "Exclude Russia from all sports international governing bodies," Zinchenko wrote on Instagram. "Ban any Russian athletes from participating in any international competitions. "Stop the sale of rights to broadcasts of international sporting competitions to Russian media. Prohibit Russian companies from being sponsors of international competitions and clubs. "Support Ukraine with information! Join to sharing true information about actions of the aggressor countries!" Zinchenko attended a vigil in the centre of Manchester last week to protest against the invasion, and was on the bench in City's 1-0 Premier League win over Everton on Saturday.