Ten years after former Kiharu MP Muturi Mwangi left the position, his son Kiama Muturi has joined the race for the seat. Kiama will contest against five other aspirants including the incumbent Ndindi Nyoro, a staunch UDA member, Embu university lecturer and former Member of Murang’a Municipal board Judy Makira, pilot Dennis Maina, philanthropist Karanja Mburu and Tony Kamutu. He will vie through the Jubilee party and will fight it out for the party ticket with  Mburu who resigned as a Lapsset director last month. Kiama, an administration and supply chain management consultant, has worked with eight multi-national companies including Delmonte, East Africa Breweries and Equity Bank among others. He told the Star that his focus, if he is elected, will be to streamline the standards of education as a means of bridging the gap between the poor and the rich. Top of his priority is ensuring all primary school pupils are provided with tablets that will make it possible for them to learn how to access the digital world and broaden their earning opportunities. “ICT and Big Data are ruling the world and we have to prepare our children to compete with the rest of the world,” he said. Kiama said both his father and mother were teachers which he said sparked his interest in the education sector. His father eventually rose to the position of director of education in the defunct Nairobi city council before retiring and joining politics. “When he was elected in 2007, education standards were so poor but they rose significantly by the time he left the seat in 2013,” Kiama said in reference to his father’s reign. Muturi was also widely known for his agricultural programmes that sought to empower local farmers including issuance of high breed dairy goats that he disbursed through farmers’ groups. He also helped lobby for numerous irrigation water projects that enabled projects such as Thathawa rice project in Githuuri area that supports hundreds of farmers to thrive. But Kiama said industrialisation is the future of the country and that Kenyans have to be prepared to take advantage of it by ensuring they have the right skills. “Most industries require both graduates and technical workers so we must ensure those that are unable to join universities acquire technical skills as the country grows,” he added. Kiama spoke while mentoring KCPE exam candidates at Kiyu Primary School in Kahuro, his former primary school, where he donated examination materials. He further said he will establish "Mashinani Care" in which he will partner with the incoming county government to ensure all health facilities are well maintained and equipped with drugs. “Some drugs should always be available unless they are for specialised treatment,” he said, urging all families to ensure they register with NHIF to access health care. Kiama lauded the Jubilee government for effecting development countrywide and especially the numerous infrastructural projects that he said will impact Kenyans positively in the long run. “These projects will ensure people have money in their pockets because once they farm, they are able to easily transport their produce to the market. In my village, farmers are selling milk to processors for over Sh40 per litre because the roads are good,” he added. He challenged the incoming government to ensure it furthers the reforms started by the Jubilee government in the agriculture sector saying counties such as Murang’a should go back to the economic status they held in the 80s when farmers were rich. Kiama also appealed to the Jubilee party to allow members to nominate their preferred leaders through nominations instead of using negotiated democracy that is being called for by some party officials.    -Edited by SKanyara