Legislators sitting at the Public Accounts Committee have said Deputy P Ruto's claims of budgeted corruption during his US tour is an insult to Kenyans. On Tuesday MPs said the utterances dent the country's global image, especially when there is no communication from the Treasury. PAC chairman Opiyo Wandayi and Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito demanded an explanation from Treasury PS Julius Muia as to why the ministry has not publicly issued official communication rebutting Ruto's claims. Muia was appearing before the oversight committee to respond to the 2019-20 audit queries raised by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. Wandayi said the DP’s utterances ought to have been debunked immediately by the Treasury. “We have heard DP Ruto talking of budgeted corruption as some of the things causing this country billions of shillings. Does it bother you that a docket you lead is implicated in such a mess?” the Ugunja MP asked. Shinyalu MP Kizito termed as disservice the silence at the Treasury when the international community is being fed on propaganda concerning the country’s management of funds. “If Treasury is serious enough they should have come out to put its position clear. This matter is out there, whether true or not, could he come out and clear the air.  We want you to come out and have DP to account,” Kizito said. During his tour of the US last week, Ruto claimed Kenya could have lost nearly a trillion shillings in the last 10 years to budgeted corruption run by opaque institutions. The DP who spoke at a US-based think tank pointed to porous local systems that have made accountability a pipe dream. Muia dismissed the remarks, saying budget-making is subjected to a high level of oversight at the both Cabinet and Parliament, making it impossible to play around with figures. “Our budgeting process is very robust. We set ceilings for various sectors. No officer can sit at some corner to put some phoney numbers, it is a transparent process,” he said. “The process is zero-based, it comes up for oversight through the Cabinet and Parliament. I see very little likelihood of one budgeting of corruption.” He, however, admitted the Treasury had taken note of the utterances and were in the process of preparing a comprehensive rebuttal. “We subject what is appearing in the media to our public communication unit and strategise how we are going to respond to it. We are aware such allegations have been made and we will respond appropriately,” he said. The MPs said Ruto should be held accountable for the utterances after Treasury denied the corruption claims. The PS also disowned claims by DP men the country’s debt had long surpassed the Sh9 trillion ceiling. Muia said the country’s debt obligation currently stands at 8.4 trillion and not over Sh9 trillion figures. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale has severally claimed the country's debt has hit Sh11 trillion. Edited by Kiilu Damaris