More than 100 motorcycles have been impounded in Kisumu following the ongoing countrywide crackdown on rogue riders. Nyanza Regional Police Commander Karanja Muiruri said 18 bodaboda operators were arrested on Wednesday. Karanja, who personally supervises the massive crackdown, nabbed a number of motorcyclists for obstructing other road users. He said they have intensified crackdown on the riders following a public outcry over rising cases of criminal activities perpetrated by the operators. Karana was accompanied by Nyanza regional traffic officer Mwangi Ng’ang’a, OCPDs, OCS and base traffic commanders from Kisumu during the crackdown. The police boss said they have declared war against motorcyclists who are non-compliant. He directed county police commanders in the six counties to ensure they intensify the crackdown. “The riders must have helmets, insurance, reflectors, and license and must carry the required number of passengers. Those without the requirements should not be found operating,” Karanja said. Karanja said following the presidential directive, the exercise will be continuous to ensure boda boda riders comply with the required reforms. He said riders who are arrested will be arraigned and warned that those who try to obstruct law enforcement officers will be dealt with accordingly. “We will not negotiate with those who fail to comply with the government directives. It is very simple, you either comply or face the full force of the law,” he said. Those who were rounded up were taken to the Nyanza police regional training centre for processing before arraignment. He asked chairmen of various bodaboda bases to sit down with their members with their view to educate them over the requirements. Karanja called on members of the public to support the ongoing crackdown to help restore sanity in the sector. “The operation is for the own good of the public. The issues of rogue riders will be eradicated completely when the public supports police,” he added. On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a crackdown on rogue bodaboda operators across the country following a public outcry over rising cases of criminal activities perpetrated by the operators. This comes after a lady driver was assaulted by the riders after she was involved in an accident with one of them on Wangari Maathai Road on March, 4. The operators have 60 days from March 21 to register their motorcycles, form SACCOs and obtain smart licenses for them to be in business.