The burial of the former Kenya Seed Company in Kitale, Trans Nzoia county, brought together leaders allied to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance and that of the Azimio la Umoja. A war of words ensued between allies of Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga with each leader defending his political side. On one hand of the Azimio la Umoja, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos stood his ground in advocating Raila's agenda while on the other, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi fired at him for backing the ODM leader. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, who is eyeing the Trans Nzoia governor seat, and Soy MP Caleb Kositany were part of the Kenya Kwanza team. In his address, Tolgos trashed the bottom-up economic model saying it has nothing for Kenyans. “ We cannot continue to be fooled into supporting the bottom-up approach that has no value for our people. We are in government to stay and we are solidly behind Raila who will be vying for the Presidency on August 9, polls," he said. Tolgos candidly told off the Kenya Kwanza team saying he won't be cowed or be intimidated to back down in his support for Raila. The second term governor said the people of Kenya need factual proposals to save them from the harsh economic conditions adding that the bottom economic model is not an option. “As we move close to the election in August, let us keep this in mind, our problems can’t be solved by telling us who is going to be President in 2022,' he said. “We can pretend that God only hears our prayers but at the end of the day, it is the same God who will be anointing the president, not those making noise here and all over." His speech sparked a heated debate at the funeral as Ruto allies fired back at him when they took to the podium to address mourners. “You cannot stand here lying to our people that you are in government when you have nothing to show for it. The last time, when we were with you here during the burial of the Tum's wife,  we sent you to the president to solve the Kenya Seed issue but you did nothing," Governor Sang told off Tolgos. Sang, however, had a rough time addressing mourners after he attempted to attack the Trans Nzoia governor aspirant George Natembeya. Mourners shouted him down forcing him to change tact in his address. Soy MP Caleb Kositany faulted the state for attacking the DP and even linked the late's woes to the government. “We stand here to bury Tum who has been a target of attacks from the state through the company he helped drive to success. These are the same wars being directed at Ruto purposely to deny him the Presidency," he said. Trans Nzoia governor, present at the burial, warned leaders who have been attacking him saying he will send them home with an endorsement of his preferred successor. Earlier, Wamalwa had said he will be “taking charge of all unfinished projects started by Khaemba who has been criticizing him for failing to bring development to the least developed region.” “You have done your part, but I'm determined to perfect on what you started and never finished," Wamalwa added. Sudi scoffed at politicians allied to the Azimio la Umoja coalition for their intolerance and asked them to be patient and tolerate dissenting voices during the electioneering period. Tum who died at 73 was eulogized as a distinguished lawyer, farmer and shrewd business mogul who played a key role in developing the seed industry currently serving East and Central Africa. Edited by B.Marita