Hit Squad heavyweight boxer, Joshua Wasike, is yearning for a grand rematch against Dimuntu Chipateau at the forthcoming Africa Zone 3 Championship primed for April in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The duo will renew their rivalry in the week-long edition set for April 3 in Chipateau's homeland. During last year's event held in March, the Congolese bagged gold on a split point decision but Wasike is yet to accept the outcome. The seasoned Kenyan pugilist insists he pounded his opponent out of his senses and the judges' verdict was alleged marred by blatant favouritism. “I believed I won the bout but the judges decided in favour of my opponent simply because he was playing at home,” Wasike said. Wasike, who unfurled his career at the Bombers Boxing Club in Busia County, has now vowed to pulverise Chipateau on his way to the winner's podium when they ultimately lock horns in April. “I'm ready to prove to the whole world that I actually deserved to have won last year's bout and the forthcoming championship will afford me a perfect opportunity to do so,” he added. With eyes now firmly trained on gold, Wasike says he has been punching furiously on the bag to sharpen up his claws for Chipateau's scalp. However, the absence of what he refers to as ‘quality competitors’ in the country could water down his ambitions. The physically imposing athlete says he confidently romped into triumph during the two editions of President Jamal Boxing Championship given there were no tough battlers in his weight division. “I'm disappointed that I'm yet to encounter a worthy opponent in the country. During the President Jamal tournament, I floored all my opponents. I realised they lacked the courage to absorb heavy punches." To make up for the absence of quality opponents in the country, Wasike has identified Africa Zone 3 Boxing super heavyweight champion as his sparring partner. “I've been sparring with Elly Ajowi and he has done a lot to keep me in good shape. He is very quick and sharp in training and his skills and experience have shaped me into a better boxer,” Wasike said. Wasike said he hasn't taken a break after returning from the East Africa Boxing Championship held in Tanzania last month. Despite plying trade for Kenya Police Boxing Club on the local front, the boxer has been training at the Kariobangi Social Hall. Wasike says he works as a personal trainer whenever he is not training or competing in the ring.