Newly-crowned Magical Kenya Open champion Ashun Wu says it will be long before the feeling of becoming the first Chinese in history to win the DP Tour event subsides. Wu fired a scintillating round of 6 under par 65 to emerge the winner on the final day of the three-day annual tournament at the iconic Muthaiga Golf Club on Sunday. "My short game was good today. I saved a couple of pars, my putting was good to make birdies on the 17th and 18th, which I’m happy about. I think a lot of Chinese people came to support me and I was happy to see them. It’s going to be a big celebration with my family here in Kenya. I’m so happy," Wu said. In winning the Kenya Open, the Chinese pro also savoured his fourth DP World Tour victory in his 158th appearance. His win followed back-to-back birdies on par 4 17th and par 5 18th. Sunday’s performance handed Wu his sixth professional victory, having won twice on the Japan Golf Tour. "Today, I was four shots behind and still playing to my plan. Five under was my goal today and after ten holes, I had a good feeling and I told myself I’ll keep playing and make a couple of birdies and it’s fine," he said. "It’s a very good feeling today to win this championship. It was very tough but I played very well. I made seven birdies." His stellar play on Kenyan soil ensures he has won in three continents: Asia (Volvo China Open), Europe (Lyoness Open) and Africa (Magical Kenya Open). It’s double delight for Wu as his win at Muthaiga came just 13 weeks after becoming a father for the first time. Hurly Long of Germany, South African  Thriston Lawrence and Canadian Aaron Cockerill tied for second on 12 under. Lawrence was magnanimous in defeat. "It was lovely, I couldn’t ask for any better. I just didn’t get the momentum from the 12th hole, hit a good shot on the 13th and missed the putt, hit an awesome drive on 14 but got a bad break and missed a four-footer there," he said. "The momentum dropped on the back nine, played aggressively on the last two holes, went for the green on 17 and birdied that, got unfortunate on 18th but seven shots behind, I gave it my all." A total of 156 players took part in the event where Kenya was represented by nine pros and six amateurs. Teenager Njoroge Kibugu was the only Kenyan to make the cut in the four-day strokeplay championship.  LEADERBOARD 1 China) A. Wu -16 T2 (Germany) H. Long  -12 T2 (Canad)a A. Cockerill  -12 T2 (South Africa) T. Lawrence -12 5 (England) D. Horsey -11 T6( France) M. Pavon -10 T6 (England) D. Gavins  -10 T8( Spain A. Arnaus  -9 T8 (Wales) S. Manley -4 F -9 T8 (South Africa) O. Bekker -9 T8 (Sweden) M. Kinhult  -9 T8 Scotland) E. Ferguson  -9 64 (Kenya) N. Kibugu +6 F +2