The contest for governor in Elgeyo Marakwet is shaping up into a two- horse race between former Police IG Joseph Boinnet and Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich. The two aspirants  are among five battling for the UDA ticket to be decided next month. Also seeking the UDA ticket is educationist Josphat Sawe, engineer Sammy Tangus and university don Dr Joyce Jepkorir Jemencho. National Vision Party leader Anthony Chelimo is also in the race. In the last three weeks Boinnet has staged massive grassroots campaigns, putting pressure on Rotich who was initially considered the leading UDA aspirant. “We are out explaining to our people what we will do if given a chance to lead and I believe Elgeyo Marakwet people are after serious and focused leadership to transform the county," Boinnet said. In a rare show, Boinnet visited Tambach area where he was carried shoulder high by women who said they believe he has the capacity to to transform their lives. Analysts argue Boinnet has been effective in his messaging to residents. But Rotich, who had earlier been considered as a green horn, has  effectively marketed himself as a down-to-earth leader who values the ordinary people. Recently Boinnet got a boost after former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui publicly withdrew from the race. Kiptanui had been widely expected by his supporters to vie but dropped out following an agreement with elders from the Keiyo community. “After consulting widely I have decided to withdraw from the race for governor and will instead vie for the Keiyo South parliamentary seat," Kiptanui said. Boinnet and Kiptanui are both from the same village in Keiyo South constituency and both of them running it would have split the vote and reduced the chances of either of them winning the UDA primary. The county is mainly inhabited by Keiyo and Marakwet communities and the two were the top most aspirants from the Keiyo side. Last month, elders from the Keiyo community prevailed upon eight aspirants, including Kiptanui, to drop out of the race in favour of Boinnet. All who dropped out publicly declared their support for Boinnet. The Keiyo elders led by their chairman, former chief Ben Kattam, have been engaging both the Keiyo and Marakwet communities to share the top political seats in the county during the August 9th elections. In the last election, candidates from the Marakwet side led by Tolgos won all the seats because the Keiyo community had many aspirants in the race. Kattam said the unity bid through negotiated democracy was for the entire county and not one community. “All of us as a county want to have a governor who will move us to the next level after Tolgos. That is why we are talking to both the Marakwet and Keiyo communities along with all other Kenyans living in the county," Kattam said. Deputy Governor Rotich is also in the race to succeed his boss but Kattam publicly termed him  a junior politician who should take his time to mature in politics. “The county needs a mature leader like Boinnet and not someone who wants to experiment with serious matters,"Kattam said. He said those who defy a decision by the elders were betraying the communities in the region and would not succeed Boinnet has insisted in his campaigns that he would put God and residents first in his quest to transform the county into a model for devolution in the country. (Edited by V. Graham)