Kirinyaga woman rep aspirant Rose Wachira has joined former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri’s The Service Party. Wachira, also known as ‘Shujaa’, has announced she will be vying for the position through the party. She is widely known for her charitable activities that saw her bag the National Hero Award (Shujaa Award) on October 20, 2018, the Presidential Award (OGW) on December 12, 2018, and the National Hero Award on October 20, 2019, earning her the name Shujaa. Wachira started her philanthropy over a decade ago when thugs murdered her husband at the entrance of their home, leaving her nursing injuries just three months after giving birth to her last born. She did not find justice as the suspects were set free, but the experience led her to become a counsellor who passionately fought for the rights of the downtrodden, especially widows and orphans. For the last seven years, Wachira has served as the county director of administration and resigned on February 8 to vie for the position. During a meeting with Kiunjuri on Tuesday, Wachira said being elected as the woman representative will give her a bigger platform to fight for the interests of the people of Kirinyaga. She said she has a list of youths undergoing rehabilitation and would work with the incoming government to establish a rehabilitation centre in the county to make it easier for those struggling with addiction to get help. “I will spend my Mondays in the centre when I am not in Parliament because I have seen the suffering of those in addiction,” she said. Wachira further pledged to partner with the government to support cottage industries that will provide employment to locals. She said she has consulted Kiunjuri and he has fully supported her agenda and pledged to back her. “After all, TSP’s heart symbol resonates with my work,” she added. Kiunjuri lauded Wachira for her zeal to work for the community even in a non-political position. “She did not brand herself Shujaa. People nicknamed her that because of her charitable work. There is no part of this county she has not left her footprints working with the needy, youths and churches,” he said. TSP, he said, is lucky to have her as an aspirant, saying her work speaks for itself unlike others who have nothing to show. “Kirinyaga people will have gained greatly by voting for her because she has been with them and knows their needs,” he added. He urged aspirants to conduct public participation to establish the needs of Kenyans instead of imposing their own ideas onto the electorate. This, he said, will ensure the people who are voted in will represent voters’ interests. Kiunjuri cautioned Kenyans against voting for political leaders just because they support their party leaders, saying they will not be the ones who will be required to work for them. “We will be told a lot about parties but the people who wore the TNA suit are the same ones who wore the Jubilee suit and some are the ones in UDA. They just shuffled parties,” he said. Wachira, he said, will not have trouble selling herself because she has been involved in a lot of communal work. The Service Party is expected to launch a major campaign in support of her to ensure that she succeeds Wangui Ngirici. She will be vying against four other candidates. Edited by A.N