Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has advised interns engaged by his government to report any unbecoming behaviour by their seniors. This follows complaints by interns that they were being sexually harassed by their seniors. Kahiga told interns to only entertain what is beneficial to them. He spoke during the inauguration of the fourth cohort of interns at the culture centre in Nyeri town on Tuesday. County Public Service Board chairman Paul Kimondo claimed there were reports of interns being sexually harassed. He said the issue was raised during a meeting with chief officers and urged interns to take care not to be the aggressors. “I want to remind our interns that you should also avoid being the aggressor. Even as there might be claims of sexual harassment, we also want you also to be of high moral grounds,” Kimondo said. He said the dress code of some applicants attending interviews at Kamwenja Teachers College was an issue of concern as some wore revealing clothes, short dresses or tight clothes. Others were dressed in tracksuits while some had problems with formal communication and referred to members of the board as ‘you guys’. However, Kimondo advised them to cultivate positive relationships with their supervisors, seniors and other colleagues and strengthen their networks as this will be a foundation for their growth. The paid internship will take one year. The interns will earn a stipend of Sh12,000, Sh11,000, Sh10,000 per month for degree, diploma and certificate holders respectively. The CPSB received 1,976 applications and shortlisted 1,094 for interview. Of the number, 200 were selected but 190 reported. The board chairman said they will replace the 10 who did not report. "What I can assure you is we will pay you when we are supposed to pay you," Kahiga said. “Each intern is placed and works in a department that relates to their areas of specialisation and is paired up with an experienced officer that acts as their supervisor and mentor,” the governor added. Speaker John Kaguchia said Kahiga is the only Jubilee governor who took the party's pledge of starting an internship programme seriously. "Even if some people did not take it seriously, at least the governor of Nyeri did it and implemented it," he said. The county government initiated the programme in 2018, with the aim of giving 200 interns an opportunity to gain hands-on experience in the work environment annually. In the first cohort enrolled in 2018, 149 interns successfully completed the programme. The second cohort was enrolled in 2019 and 173 interns successfully completed the programme . In the 2020 cohort, 172 interns successfully completed the programme. Edited by A.N