ODM party leader Raila Odinga has assured Kenyans economic transformation within the first 100 days should he be elected the fifth President of Kenya on August 9. Raila said he was ready to fulfill Kenya's founding fathers' pledge of eliminating diseases, poverty and illiteracy. "If we get to power, after I'm sworn into office as the fifth President of Kenya when we win in August 9 general elections, you will see lots of changes in my government; economic revolution, " Raila said. He spoke during Azimio la Umoja political rally at Mlolongo Town in Mavoko, Machakos County on Saturday, March 5, 2022. Raila said he was ready to ensure that Kenyans' living standards are improved despite lots of obstacles facing the country. "Tuko pamoja bega kwa bega. Kama mbaya ni mbaya, kama noma ni noma," Raila said amidst wild cheers from the crowd that was chanting 'baba baba" all through his speech. This translates to: "We will walk together shoulder-by-shoulder. If the worst comes to the worst, so be it." "We will walk together and ensure that we achieve the dreams of our fore-fathers, founders of the Republic of Kenya," he said. Raila continued, "Mungu bariki nchi ya Kenya. Haki iwe ngao na mlinzi. Tukue na undugu, amani na uhuru. Raha tupate na ustawi. Raha na ustawi hatujaona, kila siku ni uzuni tu." Translation: "God bless Kenya. Justice be our defender. Let us have unity, peace and freedom. Let us be happy and prosperous. We haven't be happy and prosperous, we have only known sadness." The ODM leader he is now ready to take Kenyans to Canaan. "In the Bible, the country with plenty of food is Canaan. That's the Canaan I was talking about," Raila said. The oposition chief criticised Deputy President William Ruto over his US trip claiming he had spent Sh100 million on it, money he claimed was tax payers' money. The ODM leader said Ruto was behaving holier than than priests during his visits to churches where he makes huge donations for youth groups women groups, school buses and pastors' cars. "Each month he spends more than Sh100 million while his salary is Sh2 million only. Where does the other money come from? posed Raila. "Now he has spent Sh100 million for his US trip, public funds and when he gets there he starts insulting the government that there is theft in Uhuru's administration," he added. "We want to put them aside when we get to power," he affirmed. Raila outlined his campaign manifesto highlighting key areas of focus which his government will execute once he gets to office. "We will look for jobs. Fiber optic network will be installed in our villages so that youths are able to work in USA, Canada, Dubai among other international states while they are here at home," he said. "I'm an engineer, I'm digital. We will show them that they don't know. We will educate them on how to run a government, " Raila said. Raila said he will walk the national economic revolution journey together with all Kenyans. "When our fore fathers were fighting for independence, they wanted the white man to go home so that Africans can take over to fight three enemies; diseases, illiteracy and poverty," Raila said. "Fifty eight years since independence, they are still there. We want to change strategies to eliminate the three. You can't keep doing the same thing, same way and expect different results," Raila said. From Machakos, Raila will take his campaign caravan to Nyeri County on Sunday before taking a day’s rest on Monday.