All the 40 KCPE exam candidates from troubled Mochongoi villages in Baringo South have been traced and moved to an centre where they will sit the test. Rift Valley regional commissioner Mohammed Maalim on Monday said all candidates in nine schools along the volatile Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet border have been moved due to intensified clashes in the area. Maalim spoke when he presided over the opening of the exam container at the Nakuru Town West deputy county commissioner's office in Kapkures. He said there was a last-minute decision to move candidates from Kasiela and Sinoni primary schools in Mochongoi to a safer exam centre following heightened banditry attacks. Residents of the two villages, including the candidates, have been fleeing their homes due to the raids. The administrator said his team had traced and accounted for all the 40 candidates from the two schools who had fled their homes. Maalim said candidates from the two primary schools will sit their exams at Mochongoi Secondary School. "Muchongoi Secondary School has been converted into a boarding facility for candidates and plans for their meals and accommodation have been finalised," he said. He said part of the relief food recently disbursed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to counties in arid and semi-arid lands would be used to feed the candidates at Mochongoi Secondary School. The food will also go to several other examination centres that have been converted into temporary boarding schools during the examination period. The two schools were converted into an internal refugee camp after the banditry attacks on Friday and Saturday that left nine people dead and scores injured. Mohamed added that the other schools whose candidates have been moved in Baringo are Arabal, Chebinyiny, Tuyotich, Kapkechir and Kapindasin. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Changache Barrack Secondary School has been moved to Kikulos due to distance and rough terrain. KCE exam candidates have been moved to Kapchelal. The candidates from Kipkuros Primary School are accommodated at Kapchelal Secondary School but they will be writing their examinations at Kapchelal Primary School, Mohamed said. He said the government through the Interior ministry had deployed additional Rapid Response Unit and General Service Unit platoons to  to enhance security during the examination period. "There are efficient plans by a multi-agency team that include the police, the Teachers Service Commission, the Education ministry and other stakeholders to ensure exams in all the 87 subcounties of the vast Rift Valley region run smoothly," he said (Edited by V. Graham)