AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma believes the side's striking force has gelled after two superb goals at each end of the interval secured them a two-all draw against Bandari at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. Juma was gratified by his charges' performance even after they squandered an early lead and survived a late scare, rallying from behind to secure a crucial point at home. “I know our fans will be disappointed because they thought we had an opportunity of winning the match. However, I'm impressed with the fighting spirit the boys displayed this afternoon,” said Juma. “We have experienced difficulties finding the back of the net in our past matches and scoring two goals in a game of this nature clearly attests to the fact that our strikers are finally getting things right." “Hopefully, we will be able to maintain the same rhythm in our subsequent fixtures. We will need the self-belief even more in our remaining fixtures, just to ensure we wrap up the season in a respectable position,” added Juma. Juma's opposite number, Anthony Kimani, was also happy that they managed to squeeze out a crucial point despite conceding late in the game. “I believe my players deserve a pat on the back having managed to secure a point in this match,” said Kimani. “Like I said earlier, my first task when I took over as head coach was to restore confidence to the side. I'm satisfied with the level of confidence I have witnessed in today's encounter." “That's exactly what we need to reclaim our status in top-flight football,” added Kimani. Maxwell Otieno fired Leopards ahead in the 19th minute before Johanna Mwita marked his return from injury in style to draw the visitors level 10 minutes later. The dockers dialed up pressure on their opponents and it wasn't long before Kenyan international Hassan Abdallah put them ahead with a superb 40th-minute finish. Bandari's hopes of bagging maximum points were scuttled when their opponents pounced on a glorious opportunity to restore parity just eight minutes to the full-time whistle. Following the outcome, Bandari are now eighth with 28 points while Leopards remain 10th with 26.