The last cohort of learners to sit for the national examinations at the start of the year will begin their exams next week. The next set of examinations will be administered to learners in December. The education sector will have witnessed a return to normalcy in the running of the school calendar. The Covid-19 pandemic saw the school calendar compressed to deal with the effects of school closure. Learners were kept away from school from March 2020 to September when a handful of them resumed learning. The compression had a ripple effect on learners, teachers, and parents. It has taken the country almost two and half years to return the calendar to normalcy. For instance, this year candidates will sit their examinations in 2022. Previously, Education CS George Magoha said this year will test the future of the education sector in the country. “This coming year shall test whether the transformation we have done at Kenya National Examination Council is sustainable or not,” he said while launching Knec’s strategic framework 2021-26. Teachers had to rush the syllabus to be on time to complete the school terms. Parents on the other hand have a tough time paying school fees for four terms this year. Once the national exams are complete, students will be expected back to school to start a new academic year. The coming 2022 school calendar will be the shortest, with 29 weeks, inclusive of a three-day midterm break for each term. First-term will take 10 weeks, from April 25 to July 1. The students will then go on a one-week holiday and resume the second term from July 11 to September 16. The third term will take nine weeks from September 17 to November 25. Those in Standard 7 and Form 3 will sit their KCPE, KCSE examinations between November and December. The national exams administered during this period will be for the 2022 cohort. KCPE exam will run between November 28 and December 1, while the KCSE exam will be done from December 1 to December 23. During the same period, primary schools will administer the national assessment for the pioneer cohort of the competency-based curriculum.   -Edited by SKanyara