UDA leaders from Mt Kenya have told President Uhuru Kenyatta to protect his legacy by staying out of succession politics. On Sunday, the leaders said residents will respect Kenyatta if he stops fronting his successor in the August 9, polls. Led by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, the leaders said the region will not accept a Raila Odinga presidency pushed down their throats. Uhuru has publicly announced Raila as his preferred successor. The leaders said residents are overwhelmingly behind Deputy President William Ruto and that no amount of intimidation will change that. At different stop overs in Gichugu, Kirinyaga county, they advised the President to keep off the upcoming elections and allow Kenyans to decide. They also urged him to pass over the political mantle to those contesting for elective seat as he proceeds for retirement. “With all due respect to our president, the project you are forcing on us is impossible," Gachagua said. "We have made a decision to stand with Ruto and we can't change that." “During the 2017 campaigns, he promised to support Ruto when his tenure ends. We still hung to that and we are not leading our people away.” Gachagua blamed the handshake pact between Uhuru and Raila, saying it's the source of Jubilee's woes. He further said it ruined Kenyatta‘s decision making capabilities alleging that Raila contributed in misguiding him. “Since the handshake everything went haywire,the president lost direction and all Jubilee plans became a pipe dream," he said. "He turned against his deputy who supported him.” He said a Ruto presidency will revive the lost Jubilee development agendas through the bottom up economic model. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro termed ‘Uhuru-Raila’ leadership unhealthy for Kenyans. He said since the handshake, Kenyans have experienced economic challenges due to high costs of living. “Even the most basic commodities, have skyrocketed and when Uhuru was taking over from former President Mwai Kibaki the national debt stood at Sh1.8 trillion," Nyoro said. “In his first term with Ruto, it rose to Sh4.5 trillion. Today the debt has risen to Sh12 trillion meaning in the handshake period the country has borrowed Sh7.5 trillion.” Nyoro also blamed the government for oppressing farmers with high fertilisers prices. He said it's regrettable that government cannot offer subsidised fertiliser. Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji said Kirinyaga is locked under UDA and will back all aspirants under the party. Others in the rallies were aspirants for different political seats in Mt Kenya. They include Njogu Barua (Gichugu) Jane Mugo(Kirinyaga Woman Rep), Karungo Thang’wa (Kiambu Senator) and Clement Munyua.