Deputy President William Ruto is set to return to Kiambu for a rally in Thika Stadium on Sunday. This comes ahead of the UDA National Delegates Conference on Tuesday next week. This will be first public event for Ruto after a 12-day tour of the US and the UK. The DP is expected to return on Saturday. Among those expected to accompany him at Thika Stadium include MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Governor Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and Senator Irungu Kangata (Murang’a). Others in the list include ANC eader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. UDA secretary for legal affairs Edward Muriu on Tuesday confirmed the event. Muriu, who is eyeing the Gatanga MP seat, said more than 20,000 supporters are expected to attend the rally. He said the meeting will be attended by all the aspirants eyeing positions on the UDA ticket. He said they expect people from Murang’a, Kiambu and Nyeri. “Those invited to attend include friends of the party, governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs and MCAs," he said. Karungo wa Thang'wa, a Kiambu senatorial aspirant, said they are reaching out to all their supporters to come out in numbers to receive Ruto. He said the meeting will allow Ruto to make a covenant with the people of the Mt Kenya region on what he intends to do  for them. Karungo said the meeting will also scuttle all the inroads made by Azimio la Umoja leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. “DP Ruto’s rally on Sunday will help woo residents and drum up support for aspirants vying for elective seats under the Kenya Kwanza Alliance,” Karungo said. Political analyst Albert Kasembeli said Ruto's decision to start his presidential campaigns in Kiambu, Uhuru’s turf, is a clear indication that he is determined to win the mountain. He said the DP is showing his opponents he can marshal support without key leaders. Two months ago, Raila hosted his supporters in the same stadium and vowed to work with the people. He promised to revamp Thika into an industrial hub and pledged to revive the agricultural sector by introducing what he termed as “smart agriculture.” Raila also promised a good health care programme dubbed Baba care. Chama cha Kazi leader Moses Kuria during his homecoming party at Thika Stadium rallied the region to support unity. Kuria, however, castigated DP Ruto and his allies for failing to attend his meeting. He said the region will not be coerced to support any presidential aspirant blindly “without knowing or understanding what’s on the table for us.”. About two weeks ago, Kuria publicly announced that his party has initiated talks with the Kenya Kwanza. He said 21 political parties will sign a pre-election agreement with Ruto’s team, adding that there was no chance he would work with Azimio la Umoja.