Some Wajir leaders have thrown their weight behind ODM leader Raila Odinga for president. The leaders who thronged the Azimio rally at Orahey grounds in Wajir on Wednesday said they will unite to support Raila's bid. They said they will deliver all the elective seats and presidential votes. Present were Senator Abdullahi Ali, Governor Ahmed Muktar, Garissa Governor Ali Korane and former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi. Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi and MPs Aden Keynan (Eldas), Ahmed Abdisalan (Wajir North MP), Rashid Kassim (Wajir East) and Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj) were also present. Only Wajir West MP Ibrahim Kolosh remains the notable leader supporting Ruto. Raila who spoke during the rally said residents of Wajir and northeastern should vote in leaders affiliated to the Azimio La Umoja movement. “I have been very consistent on matters touching on this region and that will not change when I get the presidency. However, we need to form government with as many leaders as possible on our side,” he said. Raila said the region occupies a special place in his heart. He said when he was the prime minister, he created the Ministry of Development of Northern Kenya and other Arid Lands and appointed Mohammed Elmi as the minister in charge. “I still believe we need a ministry for Northern Kenya and other Arid Lands. I want to work towards ensuring that we recreate and give it more powers to unlock the huge socioeconomic potential,” Raila said. The ODM leader said urgent solutions are required to address the challenges facing education and training in northern Kenya. “Insecurity made teachers run away. To address this problem, we will push for a special affirmative action programme in admitting students from ASALs into teacher training institutions and universities,” he said. The trainees, he said,  will create a local, committed workforce to serve as teachers and education officers in the region. Raila also said he will put up low-cost boarding schools in each subcounty in ASALs. On the livestock sector, which is the backbone of the region, Raila said he will build a resilient livestock economy. He said his administration will formulate veterinary policies that benefit the livestock sector. “We will ensure availability of quality feeds and supplements, improved livestock breeds and breeding, improved animal health and adoption of livestock technologies,” the ODM boss said. He also said his government will help the community access abattoirs and markets for their livestock and livestock products. On his part, former governor Abdullahi said Ruto should stop lamenting and instead prepare for opposition. He also dismissed Ruto’s aspirations to establish a parallel tallying center. Abdullahi said the DP orchestrated a rigging scheme in Northern Kenya, denying the opposition a win especially in Wajir in 2017. “In 2017, you (Ruto) were the man calling the shots here (in Northern Kenya). You oversaw the 54 per cent algorithm and vifaranga vya computer rigging scheme. You should therefore be the last person to accuse anyone of rigging,” he said. The former governor said Ruto should instead embrace life in opposition come August 9. MP Keynan said the leaders have decided to rally behind Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the interest of the region is taken care of by the next government. “We have unanimously resolved to offer you our support. We want to assure you that we will walk with you through this journey, until we deliver the seat," he said. The legislator said the region faces many challenges such as drought that has currently left livestock dead. "We need to confront some of these challenges while united.” Keynan said the country was going through an important transition. "If we don’t get it right, our country is not going to be in the right place," he added. Other leaders who accompanied Raila were Francis Atwoli, Mukhisa kituyi, Peter Keneth, Gladys Wanga, Mishi Moboko (Likoni), Junet Moahmed (Suna East), Nathif Jama and Hassan Noor Hassan (Mandera). (Edited by Bilha Makokha)