The Auditor General has put the Machakos government on the spot for pumping Sh648.41 million into the construction of a governor’s office and lounge. Nancy Gathungu said the money was spent at the expense of pressing projects meant to transform lives. In her latest report tabled in the Senate, Gathungu states that the county executive spent Sh136.14 million to construct a governor’s lounge. This came just a year after the executive spent Sh512.26 million to construct an expansive building dubbed ‘Machakos White House’ that houses the governor’s office in Machakos town. “No investment appraisal document was provided for audit to indicate that the county lodge deserved priority over other projects that may directly benefit livelihoods of residents,” the report reads. She said as the county spent a fortune on the governor’s office and lounge, several projects valued at about Sh1 billion stalled, delayed or were poorly executed. The projects include the construction of Masii and Mavoko stadiums whose contracts were awarded in 2019 at a cost of Sh93.65 million. Audit verification carried out in November, 2020 indicated that construction works at both stadiums had stalled and the contractor had abandoned the respective sites. Further, although notices for default and termination of the contracts were issued to the contractor, the county government had already paid Sh9.57 million. The payments were made contrary to the expectation that the contractor would be penalized for breach of contract. In addition, there were no records to indicate whether the two contracts were indeed terminated and how the Machakos government intended to complete the stadia. “In the circumstance, Masii and Mavoko residents’ expectations for improved sporting facilities have not been realised. No value for money has been obtained on the Sh9.57 million expenditure incurred under the contract,” the report reads. Further, some of the 27 projects valued at Sh775.20 million started in 2018-19 under the Kenya Urban Support Programme have delayed. The projects were scheduled to be completed in October 2019. Two of the 27 projects were yet to be completed a year after the expiry of contract periods. The contracts were for construction of non-motorised transport facilities and cabro-paving works along Kitui Road and Gregon. Also, the upgrading of Nguluni centre roads to bitumen standards. The contracts were awarded at Sh104.36 million. In addition, a project for improvement of the drainage system in Tala town awarded at Sh59.87 million and handed over to the county government did not provide the utility expected. This was after the drainage channels were turned into dumping zones and informal structures were erected thereon. The county government also spent Sh39.22 million on the construction of a fire station. Despite being completed, the facility had remained idle as it had not been connected with electricity. Gathungu also flagged several flaws in the procurement for projects, services and goods by the Machakos executive. The auditor indicated that the departments for Health and Emergency services awarded contracts worth Sh37.11 million without carrying out technical evaluations. The contracts were for renovation of isolation wards at Kangundo, Machakos and Kananie hospitals. In addition, the auditor flagged an irregular extension for a cleaning services contract at Machakos Level 5 Hospital. The county awarded the contract in October 2018. It was supposed to pay Sh2.5 million per month for two years. “However, the firm continued to provide the services after the expiry of the contract,” the report states. In January 2020, the Health department also awarded a contractor Sh656,448 per month amounting to Sh7.87 million per annum for laundry services. The contract was procured through the Request for Quotation method of procurement instead of Open Tender method. “Therefore, the contract was irregular,” Gathungu said. The auditor also raised a red flag over the county’s high wage bill that is eating into the projects. The report shows that the county spends up to 43 per cent of its total revenues for the year on payments of salaries and wages. The ratio exceeds the 35 per cent threshold set in Section 25(1) (b) of Public Finance Management (County Governments) Regulations, 2015. “Further its overspending on wages and salaries may have constrained its capacity to fund public services required by the residents of Machakos,” it states. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)