The Kisumu county government has defended itself after it emerged that patients were sleeping on the corridors of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital. Governor Anyang Nyong’o through his directorate of county information and public communication admitted that it is true that some patients may have missed beds at the facility due to upsurge of patients but measures are being put in place to urgently address the matter. “Our attention has been drawn to a series of pictures doing rounds on social media. These images show patients sleeping on the corridors of the hospital,” he said. In a statement shared to media by acting chief officer communication John Oywa, the county said JOOTRH has undergone massive improvement in the recent past. “Being a major and dependable referral health institution in western Kenya, it has recorded a significant rise in the number of patients, outstripping its capacity,” the statement read in part. The county attributed the upsurge of patients to the improvement of services and the installation of additional health facilities at the hospital. According to the statement, the situation has been aggravated by the just concluded free orthopaedic surgery conducted by 20 volunteer surgeons and the sudden increase in the number of general patients. “Despite having undergone successful operations, some of the patients missed single beds due to the overwhelming turnout,” the statement further reads. The relatives of some of the non-surgical patients were advised to transfer them to other facilities with bed space but opted to leave them at the facility. On humanitarian grounds, the county government said they could not chase away the few patients who missed the beds. “Furthermore, it is our policy not to send away patients even if they fail to get beds. We better save their lives first,” the statement reads. Nyong’o’s administration said the situation being depicted in the photos is temporary. “We are working on a process to accommodate the affected patients in our new 60-bed capacity ward, which is 95 percent complete. What remains to be done in this ward is fixing pots for oxygen supply. This will be done in a matter of a few days,” he said. The statement also reads, “We are putting up another 60-bed capacity ward just above the main theatre to enable us to accommodate more patients.” Currently, JOOTRH has a bed capacity of 550, which is expected to soon increase to 850. Nyong’o said they are equipping and expanding sub county hospitals to reduce over-dependence on JOOTRH. The long-term intention is to leave JOOTRH for purely referral cases after the county government stepped up a campaign to rally vulnerable families to register for MARWA solidarity medical insurance care. The scheme will enable families to be treated free of charge at the sub county hospitals instead of rushing to JOOTRH. The county said they have established that relatives of some of the patients sleeping in the corridors could not transfer them for lack of resources. “These are the cases we want to be addressed through Marwa. We regret the situation but promise that all is being done to improve it. We however wish to appeal that it should not be dramatized, politicized, or sensationalized,” Nyong’o said. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)