NYS prime suspect Benson Gethi has been sentenced to five years in jail for forging IEBC tender documents. Gethi was found guilty on Monday after prosecution proved they committed the offences. However, chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi granted him an alternative fine of Sh4 million. His company, Solarmak Limited, had won a tender to supply the IEBC solar lanterns worth Sh105 million for the 2013 polls. Gethi was convicted on Monday alongside his co-director Joyce Makena by Milimani anti-corruption chief magistrate Mugambi for forging the tender documents Makena will also serve the same sentence as Gethi because they were both directors at the company. Also sentenced alongside the two are three former IEBC employees Gabriel Mutunga, Kennedy Ochae and Willie Kamanga. Mugambi said Gethi and Makena will bear the greater burden because they were the ones who were supposed to benefit from the forgery. However, he said no money was lost from the forgery because their scheme was stopped in their tracks, before any money was paid to them. The IEBC officials were each separately sentenced for the two counts they were convicted in. Mutunga, who the court said was the mastermind, was sentenced to serve three years in prison or pay a Sh2.8 million fine. Ochae was given a lenient sentence after the court said he was only used by Mutunga as an accomplice. He (Ochae) was ordered to pay a Sh200,000 fine or serve one year in jail. Kamanga, who is 70 years, was ordered to pay Sh800,000 fine or serve one year in jail. Gethi, through his lawyer, had asked court for leniency in the sentence. The lawyer said Gethi is a father of one and is also expecting a second born in the next four months. The lawyer said the court should consider granting them an alternative of the fine even though under section 349 under which he was convicted there is no provision of a fine. “There is no provision for a fine under those acts but Section 26 provides that a fine can apply in an offense where no fine is prescribed,” he said. The lawyer also mitigated for Makena who the court heard that she was a mother of three children aged between nine years and three months. He asked the court to grant her non-custodial sentence because she is a lactating mother to the youngest who was in court with her. The three IEBC officials also pleaded with the court for leniency with Mutunga saying that he was remorseful. Ochae and Kamanga equally asked for a lenient sentence saying they were very remorseful of the events that led to the situation they are currently in. The court heard that Ochae is the single breadwinner of his family, with minors aged 14, 12 and two years, who are looking upon him. Kamanga said he is a senior citizen who has worked in the public service for 33 years. He said he worked in the Office of the President and Treasury before being seconded to the IEBC. His lawyer also presented medical records to show he has high blood pressure and had an episode the day he was convicted. On Gethi and Makena, the court said they are guilty of presenting fake documents to the IEBC to secure the tender to supply the solar lanterns. He dismissed Gethi’s defence that he had nothing to do with the company named Solarmak Limited. “If he has nothing to do with the company, then why would he be found with documents belonging to the said company and which relate to the tender in question?” Mugambi posed (Edited by Bilha Makokha)