Kenya Open Golf Limited Tournament Director Patrick Obath expects this week's Magical Kenya Open to attract a multitude of fans from the country as well as beyond the borders. The DP World Tour event — formerly the European Tour — will tee off at Muthaiga Golf Club on Thursday this week until Sunday as 156 golfers from Kenya and abroad converge to compete for a grand purse prize of Sh 227 million. Among the participants include eight Kenyan professionals and six amateurs. "We shall have an entertainment village where fans can come and enjoy themselves, and we shall also have activities within the course itself. All this is in an attempt to have the spectators come and enjoy themselves and have an experience that you won’t normally have watching golf. We, therefore, look forward to a great tournament and invite Kenyans to join us for an exciting four days of great golf and entertainment," Obath said. The event will be relayed to millions of viewers globally with those in Kenya following proceedings through Free-To-Air television. Obath was speaking on Monday during the unveiling of an Sh69.5 million sponsorship by Kenya Breweries Limited via its premium spirits brand, Johnnie Walker. He thanked the brewery giant for partnering with KOGL as they seek to take the sport to the next level. "As we innovate to grow the game of golf in Kenya, we are proud to have KBL through the Johnnie Walker brand as a partner for this year’s Magical Kenya Open that will be held at Muthaiga Golf Club. KBL has been a key and long-term partner of the tournament and they have supported us for a long time now," Obath said. KBL managing director, John Musunga, spoke of the annual event's importance in positioning Kenya as a sports tourism destination. "This is a great tournament that continues to play an important role in the growth and development of golf in the country. It has over the years been key to raising the profile of Kenya as a regional sporting golfing powerhouse, and sports in general. As the most premier sporting event in the region, the Championship continues to fit well within the company’s goals and objectives and we are therefore proud of this partnership," he said.