Kakamega Homeboyz head coach Bernard Mwalala has cautioned his charges against complacency in their Kenya Premier League match against Vihiga Bullets this afternoon. Homeboyz, who are at the top of the table, will host the struggling debutants at Bukhungu Stadium in the western Kenya derby. Mwalala revealed that the match is tricky given that Bullets are battling against relegation and has warned his players not underrate them. "At the moment, we're not looking at the position of the teams, it's all about focus. We want to approach the match with a lot of seriousness just like any other match. "This is the homestretch stage where each team wants to try to collect maximum points and we are aware our opponents will come fully prepared. "Sometimes when you're at the summit, every team targets you, and it's from this perspective we want to keep doing things differently," said Mwalala. The experienced tactician called upon the players to give their best, and take each match at a time as they look forward to clinching the title this season. "We want to give credit to our loyal fans who have kept pushing us in both home and away matches. Something that has boosted the morale in the team," he pointed out. He also said that he is working around the clock to ensure their performance remains remarkable. The team’s sharp front liners Yemi Mwana, David Okoth, and Moses Mudavadi have remained a thorn in the flesh of many teams in the Kenya Premier League. Homeboyz are enjoying the top position with 43 points while Vihiga Bullets are in the relegation zone with 12 points from 19 matches. Coach Salim Babu will be keen to fire Nzoia Sugar to their third consecutive win after joining the side from the second-tier side, Kisumu Allstars a month ago. The former Western Stima tactician has vowed to salvage the team from the jaws of relegation. They host Bidco United at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma. Nzoia are 16th on the log with 18 points while Bidco are 14th with 23 points. Kariobangi Sharks have a chance to move to the second spot when they meet Mathare United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Whereas Sharks are sixth on the standings with 32 points, Mathare United are staring at relegation at the very bottom of the table with a paltry 10 points. Second-placed Nairobi City Stars have a perfect opportunity to close in on leader Kakamega Homeboyz if they surmount Posta Rangers at Ruaraka grounds. City have amassed 35 points thus far, eight adrift of Homeboyz. AFC Leopards travel all the way to ASK Nakuru Grounds for a clash against Ulinzi Stars. Record champions Gor Mahia have a date with Sofapaka at Wundanyi Stadium on a day that Talanta also host Bandari. K'Ogalo are fourth on the log with 34 points while Sofapaka are 11th with 25 points.  