The truth is in most cases a bitter pill to swallow. It is harder for a leader who feels they are in a position of authority and are thus beyond reproach. As someone who is a leader, I have discovered that the biggest challenge in the line of duty is to remain humble and cognisant of the fact that sometimes we are wrong and need someone to point that out. Criticism is not a favourite cup of tea for most leaders, who would rather be surrounded by sycophants singing our praises. No one wants to tell the king he is naked. However, in many instances, an allergy to correction soon leads to disaster. Proverbs 29:1 warns that whoever remains stiff-necked after many rebukes will suddenly be destroyed — without remedy. This is what befell King Ahab of Israel when he refused to listen to God's warning that he would die if he went to war against Ramoth Gilead. Ahab is recorded as one of the most evil kings who reigned in Israel due to the fact that he wholly embraced idol worship and led people astray from God. He was averse to criticism and waged war against God's prophets. In 2 Chronicles 18, he had called 400 prophets to help him inquire from God whether he should go to war against Ramoth Gilead and if he would emerge victorious. All the prophets replied in the affirmative and told him to go forth and prosper. However, King Jehoshaphat of Judah, who was to accompany Ahab to the battle, was not convinced and asked if there was a true man of God they could consult. And so Micaiah son of Imlah was summoned from prison where Ahab had jailed him for criticising his style of leadership. Despite being advised by a messenger to prophesy positively over King Ahab, he replied that he could only say what God had told him to do. In 2 Chronicles 18:18-21, Micaiah tells Ahab that he will die in battle and that the 400 prophets have been deceiving him. Indeed, he says God has allowed a deceiving spirit to lead Ahab astray because he was a leader who hated correction and loved soothing lies. Eventually, Ahab goes to battle, is shot with an arrow and by evening, dies while slumped in his chariot. His demise is a wake-up call to all of us to love correction no matter how unpleasant it may be. Before Micaiah was brought to him, Ahab had complained to Jehoshaphat that the former never prophesied anything good about him. Many of us mirror this king's approach to correction — we take criticism to mean hatred against us. Africa has become notorious for dictators who are always quick to jail or mete violence against their critics. When we develop hearts of humility, then we will be able to avoid many pitfalls as leaders.