Farmers in Kirinyaga have been advised to start beekeeping during the long rain season. Bee farming expert Mutuota Mugo said with the rains, huge swarms of bees will migrate from the Eastern part of the country to the Mt Kenya region in search of food. "Farmers will see huge swarms in their farms, especially when their crop start flowering. I want to encourage them to buy high quality beehives and mount them on indigenous trees," he said. "This will attract the bees which will in turn produce honey which can be used for subsistence purpose or economic importance." According to the county meteorological department, the rainy season is expected to start at the end of March up to the end of May. Mugo said there are about 100 species of bees worldwide. Honeybees, he said, are the most common type in the country and are reared for economic viability. Mugo advised the farmers on what to look out for while buying or constructing their beehives. "Ensure they are free from moisture, have moderate temperature and are in strict observance with bee body size." County meteorological department director Peter Wambugu said Kirinyaga will experience near normal to slightly above normal rainfall over the highlands, upper and middle altitude zones. Many of the areas expected to experience downpour are Gichugu, Mwea and Kirinyaga Central constituencies. He said rainfall of between 500mm and 600mm was experienced in the county in 2021, 2012 and 2008. "In view of the forecast, many departments are likely to be affected and with adequate preparations, the county can avoid some of the negative impacts," Wambugu said. "There might be cases of flooding. The county disaster operation is therefore advised to be on high alert." Residents and motorists were also warned to keep off swollen rivers and avoid walking or driving on moving waters. Motorists using roads have equally been urged to be careful as they may experience poor visibility and slippery roads. Roads likely to be affected include Embu-Mwea-Makutano, Kutus-Kagio-Sagana and Kutus-Kerugoya-Karatina. Those living in lowlands have been told to move to high grounds. Wambugu urged farmers to liaise with county agricultural officers for advice on appropriate seeds for maximum yield. Wambugu also said it is important for residents to invest in tanks so they can harvest as much rainwater as possible. He also urged residents to maintain hygiene and sanitation to avoid waterborne disease. "Water borne diseases such as cholera and typhoid may emerge as a result of flooding and contamination of water. Poor drainages may also result in water stagnation which might be a breeding ground for disease-carrying viruses." Joseph Gathige urged residents to plant indigenous trees. Edited by A.N