Northeastern regional commissioner James Kianda on Tuesday assured  candidates, invigilators and supervisors the government will ensure national exams go on uninterrupted. Speaking to the press in his Garissa office, Kianda said enough security personnel have been deployed across the border and in schools to ensure  the exercise goes on smoothly. The region has in the last few months experienced attacks by suspected al Shabaab militants and their sympathisers  that have left at least 16 people dead in the counties of Mandera, Wajir and Garissa. The most recent attack occurred on Monday morning in Mandera where Omar Jillow chief was attacked by suspected al Shabaab as he was coming back from Arabia. He was reportedly accosted by the militants who butchered him before fleeing back to Somalia on foot. The attacks have caused anxiety among residents with fears that the militants might target to disrupt the exams. Kianda  has however assured residents saying they have no cause to worry as proper security arrangements have been put in place by his team. The KCPE exam is set to run from March 7 to 9  with the rehearsals on March 4, while KCSE exam has already started. “As we are aware, we are preparing for the national examinations that is set to start very soon. As the regional head, I want the education stakeholders and residents to know that the examination period will be free of any incidents. We will provide adequate security and monitoring, and ensure that it is performed well,” Kianda said. He urged residents to remain alert and share any information to the relevant authorities so that action can be taken. Kianda said information sharing is key in deterring any would be attacks. He said all citizens should be patriotic at heart, adding that this was the only sure way of protecting the country against individuals with the intention of causing bloodshed and killing. He said the war on terror cannot be won by the security personnel alone, adding that the input of members of the public was key in ensuring that would be terror attacks are thwarted before they happen. He emphasised on the need to cut the relationship with criminals "because we have nothing to gain by engaging with them but stand to lose". On January 12, Kianda replaced Nicodemus Ndalana as the Northeastern regional commissioner. Ndalana was moved to the Office of the President in Nairobi.    -Edited by SKanyara