Mandera residents can now access information about county activities and services through a website— www.mandera.go.ke. The Mandera government launched the website and the GIS mapping software on Wednesday. Governor Ali Roba said the website serves as a mirror to the world. He said it provides information on the county’s history, values, ethics and activities. It also shows the achievements of key ministries and departments, as well as information regarding elected officials and senior county staff. The website also provides an interface for online services such as payment of bills, access of business licenses, job applications and tenders. It uses the latest web technology available in the market and comes with better security features. “What we need from the system is an automatic system that immediately sends the query to the right ministry. It then provides a follow up message for you to provide the answers on the website,” Roba said. The governor said the purpose of calling it interactive is so that people get responses to the issues raised. “Having only questions and no answers posted defeats the whole purpose. People need the acknowledgement and engagement,” he said. Roba said the system is user friendly and its themes stand out from other  county websites. He said its interactive outlook allows the public to give valuable inputs on governance and documents such as County Integrated Development Plans. The governor further said business opportunities for the youth and women and tenders will be advertised online. He said the Mandera Public Service Board will advertise the jobs when vacancies become available. The Geographic Information System helps in capturing, storing, checking and displaying data related to positions on earth’s surface. The main aim of the Mandera GIS is to map and visualise Mandera’s geospatial data using Google Maps platform. Google Maps provides the layout of roads, locations of cities, towns, villages, state boundaries, geographical features, restaurant reviews and satellite images. Roba said this will enhance the ability to check possible routes and landmarks for faster travel time. The county becomes the first to map its entire landmark on the Google Maps. The GIS system can be accessed through the county website. The information will be updated on Google Maps within 60 days. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)