Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee is set to engage key stakeholders at a meeting scheduled for Nyayo Stadium this morning. Kenya's suspension by the world football governing body, Fifa, highlights the day's agenda. This comes barely days after Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed hinted at establishing a Normalisation Committee to resolve the issues that led to Kenya's suspension. The CS made the remarks at Parliament Building on Thursday during a session where members sought to know how she would handle a heated dispute that pits the government, Fifa and Football Kenya Federation. Amina lashed out at the ousted federation, citing it as an embodiment of bad leadership that the ministry was keen to scrap. The CS reckons that Kenya's woes emanate from federations' failure to adhere to the Sports Act. “Almost none of the federations comply with the Sports Act. When I came to the ministry, I actually invited all of them and then took them through the Sports Act. I also checked their compliance records and very few have complied with the Act. Few of them have held elections,” said Amina. The CS said that in an effort to clean up the mess in other federations, the ministry would pull off the magic wand that exorcised the ghosts that haunted Cricket Kenya. To sanitise football, Amina took the bold step and constituted the FKF Caretaker Committee on November 12, pursuant to Section 54 of the Sports Act. Part of the committee's mandate is to bring all the operations of FKF in tandem with the Sports Act (2013). Other than that, the retired judge Aaron Ringera-led committee has been tasked with laying the ground for fresh elections that will usher in a new office. It is crucial to note that the FKF caretaker Committee has requested all branch officials to furnish them with compliance documents including the EACC clearance of officeholders. The documents are mandatory in law for all elected branches and sub-branches officials and will be of great assistance to the Caretaker Committee in terms of establishing the legitimacy of the officeholders. The Committee has also demanded to have the banking details of the branches, including bank, account numbers, signatories and audited accounts from the date of assuming office. Other documents needed are bank statements for 2016 to 2021, M-Pesa statements received from clubs and KRA returns for 2016/2017, 2017/2018, 2018/2019, 2019/2020 and 2020/2021. The branches must also provide tax compliance certificates, VAT Certificates, copies of receipts issued to clubs for all monies received, contracts, minutes of all sponsorships including county government funding, county development fund, sports, arts and social development fund, county council license for the physical offices. Further, to establish administrative accountability in managing the leagues, the caretaker committee has requested the branches to provide postal and physical address of the respective branches, data of all clubs participating in all leagues, PAYE, NHIF, NSSF of employees, contracts of employees, valid/current Kenyan business permit certified by an advocate. Hopefully, the FKF Caretaker Committee will leave no stone unturned as they embark on an ambitious effort geared towards unearthing the rot that has placed the country at the mercy of Fifa.