TotalEnergies Kenya, in partnership with Toyota Kenya, has launched the second edition of the skill-based competition for motor vehicle mechanics in the informal sector dubbed “QUARTZ Golden Spanner Competition”. The initiative aims to equip mechanics with engine oil knowledge, vehicle diagnostic and servicing skills. The program also seeks to empower the Jua Kali sector and other SMEs by creating opportunities for growth and skills development. It will run from 9th February 2022 to 6th May 2022. Mechanics from all over the country will be competing for the grand prize, a brand-new Toyota Hilux single cab pickup worth Ksh. 3.2 million. The second and third finalists as well as the regional champions will be awarded Sh750,000, Sh500,000 respectively, while the 20 regional winners will each receive Yamaha YBR 125G motorbike to help further grow their businesses. “We recognize the immense potential of Kenyan artisans, especially in the automotive sector, and we are pleased to support them to grow their skills as they provide better services to their clients. This will in turn improve their earnings leading to better lives and a greater contribution to the economy”,  TotalEnergies Managing Director Eric Fanchini said when he received the grand prize from Toyota Kenya. On his part, Toyota Kenya Managing Director, Arvinder Reel said, “Toyota Kenya is honoured to be part of such partnerships that seek to empower young people. We are more excited that this allows us, through our “Toyota Service Technician for the 21st century -TST21” training at the Toyota Kenya Academy, which is tailor-made for the automotive informal sector to further enhance skills for mechanics across the country.” “In addition to getting a chance to win the grand prize, the participants will further hone their automotive servicing and repair skills which will help them set up their own start-ups, become self-reliant and create opportunities. “Added Managing Director of TotalEnergies Marketing Kenya Eric FanchiniE