When three hippopotamuses were introduced to Columbia decades ago, residents were thrilled. Today, they are no longer at ease with the hippos. Columbian Minister for Environment Carlos Eduardo on Tuesday sought help from the government of Kenya to tame the hippos that are causing menace. Eduardo had claimed that the three hippos, one female and two males, were donated by the Kenyan government decades ago. They have since multiplied to 200. It is for this reason that Eduardo sought help during bilateral talks with Environment CS Keriako Tobiko on the sidelines of the United Nations Environment Assembly (UNEA5.2). The fifth session of the Assembly is seeking solutions to three planetary crises: climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss. Eduardo said hippos have increased and residents do not know how to co-exist with them. “We are seeking help from you,” Eduardo said. Tobiko directed them to seek assistance from the Ministry of Tourism and Kenya Wildlife Service. On Wednesday, Kenya’s ministry of tourism and wildlife expressed its willingness to help. However, Wildlife Secretary Erastus Kanga said the Kenyan government did not donate the hippos. “Those are not Kenyan hippos. However, we are willing to help them with technical skills on how to handle them as we are wildlife managers,” Kanga said. Hippos are said to have been brought to Colombia decades ago by Pablo Escobar, the notorious cocaine kingpin, and are now thriving in the country's river ecosystems. Scientists believe that the presence of non-native hippos, with the large herbivores filling an ecological niche that has been vacant in the region for thousands of years will benefit the environment. On forest cover, Eduardo said his country was at 52 per cent but was depreciating due to deforestation. He said they have the ambition to restore 16 million hectares (39 million acres) of degraded landscapes in two months. Tobiko said Kenya has embarked on reafforestation efforts through tree-planting campaigns that have increased the forest cover to 8.8 per cent from five per cent in 2018. Tobiko said the country is also growing bamboo along the Kenyan coast. The CS said the government has recovered 74,131.5 acres of forestland that had illegally been acquired and has since fenced it off to thwart further grabbing attempts and allow it to regenerate naturally. The government, Tobiko said, is also seeking to restore 5.1 million hectares (12 million acres) of degraded land by 2030 through the Bonn Challenge. Tobiko said the adopt-a-forest initiative that allows individuals, corporates, embassies and missions to adopt part of or the entire forest has enabled the government to restore 18,000 hectares (44,000 acres) of forests. He said Community Forest Associations have helped the government in protecting the country’s resources. Tobiko said Kenya Forest Service does not have enough to protect the 2.59 million hectares (6.4 million acres) of gazetted forests. The bilateral talks were attended by Colombian Ambassador Monica De Greiff, National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo and Kenya Forest Research Institute director Dr Joshua Cheboiwo. Elsewhere, Tobiko Environment held a bilateral meeting with Iran Vice President and Chief of the Department of Environment Ali Salajegheh. The meeting was centred on corporation and partnership in water and natural resources management, waste management and climate change. Tobiko said Kenya is keen to learn from Iran on how they green deserts. The CS said learning from best practices in Iran will benefit Kenya. Arid and semi-arid lands in Kenya make up to 89 per cent of the landmass with approximately 38 per cent of the total population. These regions are home to more than 90 per cent of the wildlife that supports the tourism industry, contributing to 12 per cent of Kenya’s GDP. The ASAL regions host 70 per cent of the national livestock herd, with an estimated value of Sh70 billion. They also have enormous potential for renewable energy, both solar and wind, and other natural resources. The areas are strategically positioned for cross-border trade and social-cultural interaction with Ethiopia, Uganda, Tanzania, South Sudan and Somalia. Salajegheh invited the CS to the environment week in Iran to celebrate 15 years of the existence of the Department of Environment which was renamed from Wildlife and Hunting Department. The two leaders discussed on a memorandum of understanding between the two countries on protection of the environment and natural resources. Present during the bilateral talks included Environment PS Dr Chris Kiptoo and Conservation Secretary Dr Alfred Gichu. Edited by A.N