Senator Mithika Linturi has declared he will vie for Meru governor, challenging incumbent Kiraitu Murungi. Linturi announced his bid at Maili Tatu, Igembe Central, on Monday. He will team up with Imenti South MP Kathuri Murungi who is vying for senator. The duo will vie on a UDA ticket. Linturi said he decided to vie after Kiraitu refused to join Kenya Kwanza Alliance and support Deputy President William Ruto's presidential bid. "He [Kiraitu] is yet to make up his mind on which side he will support in the August poll between Raila Odinga and Ruto," he said. The senator said the UDA party was ridiculed as it did not have a gubernatorial candidate in Meru. "I have decided to vie and I will be campaigning with Kathuri," he said. Linturi is also banking on rotational politics to clinch the seat. Meru has three subtribes — Tigania, Igembe and Imenti. Agriculture CS Peter Munya was the first Meru governor was from Tigania, while Kiraitu is from Imenti and Linturi is from Igembe. Igembe residents are asking Imenti and Tigania to support Linturi as is their candidate. Linturi was accompanied by MPs Kathuri (South Imenti) Kubai Kiringo (Central Imenti) Josphat Gichunge (Tigania East), John Mutunga (Tigania West) and Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri). Gichunge said Meru residents should vote for UDA candidates. Rindikiri on his part said it is good to have rotational politics and the gubernatorial seat should go to Igembe preferably Linturi. Mutunga said Igembe residents should support Lithuri and allow him to campaign in other areas. He said Meru will not accept to be taken to the opposition by Kiraitu's support for Raila, adding that Ruto will clinch the presidency. Linturi said nine MPs in Meru support his bid. He, however, said he is not vying for governor because he is from Igembe. "Coming from Igembe is not a qualification. I saw that our people are suffering a lot because of joblessness. They cannot even get the county tenders," Linturi said. He, however, said Igembe residents should exercise restraint and not be hostile to other gubernatorial candidates. The senator poked holes into the Kiraitu administration, saying the governor had not delivered on his manifesto. Linturi also hit out at DCI boss George Kinoti, saying he is being used by President Uhuru Kenyatta to harass those who oppose the government. The senator said Kinoti should come up with all charges against him instead of a witch hunt. He said Kinoti asked him to join Azimio, if he wanted all the charges against him withdrawn. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)