Kenya will send a formidable squad to the Africa Cup Sevens qualifiers despite their commitments in the World Sevens Series over the same period, The event will act as qualifiers for the Rugby World Cup Sevens, which will be played in Cape Town, South Africa from September 9-11. Shujaa, who are expected to feature in the World Sevens' Series legs in Singapore and Vancouver in the same month, will field a strong squad, according to Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Oduor Gangla. Speaking on Wednesday, Gangla exuded confidence that the team will put up a good show. “We are going flat out to try and qualify. We did not have a good tournament in 2018 in the USA and so the first step we are taking is to qualify," he noted. Gangla said they have enough depth in the squad to navigate the twin challenges of the World Sevens Series and the World Cup qualifiers. “ We have a fairly large squad to compete and I  am confident the technical bench will pick a good team," he noted. Shujaa will be up against hosts Uganda, Zimbabwe, Tunisia, Senegal, Botswana, Algeria, and Morocco in the men's category. Kenya Lionesses will also feature in the same event and are expected to renew their rivalry with South Africa, Uganda, Madagascar, and Tunisia. World Series champions South Africa have qualified automatically after being ranked as one of the top eight sides in the last edition in San Fransisco, USA in 2018. Shujaa had a dismal performance in the 2018 Rugby World Cup with several players going on strike before the tournament kicked off due to the fiasco over the shirt sponsor being blacked out in the Paris Sevens. In the tournament, Shujaa got off to a good start, beating Tonga 19-7 to get into the group stage but things fell apart from thereon. They lost to  Ireland (24-14) before spectacular collapse against Scotland 31-26 after leading 28-5 at some point. From that point,  it was downhill with further losses to Samoa 19-17 and a shock loss to Japan 26-14 to finish 15th overall out of 24 teams. Shujaa have had successes in World Cups, finishing fourth in 2013 in Moscow, Russia and and 2009 in Dubai.