Garissa residents have been urged to stop obstructing contractors working on state projects. Garissa county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said incidents of obstruction are on the rise. Cherutich spoke on Tuesday after leading the County Development Implementation and Coordination Committee on an inspection of the Garissa water supply and sewerage infrastructure, last mile connectivity project. He said some residents have put up illegal structures on land designated for the LAPSSET project. Cherutich said in Korakora, even outsiders erect structures on the projects route with the aim of getting compensated. The commissioner said the people are stalling the tarmacking of the 257kms Lamu - Modika road being put up at a cost of Sh10 billion. He said the National Land Commission has already drafted a list of genuine people who would be compensated by the government. “I am sorry to say that those who want to disrupt the project by putting up structures along the road then demand for compensation will not be paid,” Cherutich said. The commissioner said they shall be holding a meeting with the residents of Korakora this week. "The contractor, Kenha, NLC, and local leaders will be among other stakeholders seeking to iron out these issues once and for all,” he said. Cherutich said county projects like the water and sewerage project have dragged on for years because of similar challenges. He said a few people are also blocking contractors from laying down water pipes around the Shell petrol station. “How will you and other people get water if you don’t want the government to lay the infrastructure?” Cherutich posed. The commissioner however said most of the projects have been sorted out and some are expected to be completed by month end. “I urge all Garissa residents to cooperate with government agencies doing development projects because they will help us all,” he said. The Garissa water project is being implemented by Tana Water Works Development Agency at a cost of Sh191 million. The project is expected to connect 20,000 new customers and ease water access in a town that has been experiencing perennial water shortage. The Garissa CDICC has on several occasions cautioned private developers and individuals against building on road reserves. The committee said the individuals put the lives of motorists in danger. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)