Trans Nzoia West sub-county Police commander Patrick Lobolia has warned politicians sponsoring criminal gangs in several slum areas saying their days are numbered. His warning came after three suspected criminals were lynched to death by irate members of the public. The three were part of a criminal syndicate that was terrorizing residents of slum areas in the Trans Nzoia West sub-county. Lobolia said police are narrowing down on some Politicians "who bankroll the criminal gangs operating in Tuwan, Matisi, Kisumu ndogo and the outskirts of Kitale Town". Speaking to the Star in his Kitale office on Wednesday, Lobolia asked area residents to volunteer information that will help with the investigations. "We are following some leads on politicians we are suspecting of sponsoring criminal gangs, especially in Tuwan and Matisi. They can run but will not hide forever,"  he said. He revealed that the fight to eradicate the gangs had begun in earnest. "We will crush the gangs but before that, we must deal firmly with those sponsoring them," he said. He asked area residents to work hand in hand with the police by offering any information and hints that may lead to the arrest of the remaining criminal gangs. The police commander said gangs are waylaying children and women, especially at the Kisuguu, Mtoni Murefu, Kisumu Ndogo and Mitume with those alighting from motorcycles being main targets. Lobolia added that several arrests were made on Wednesday. He, however, warned residents against taking the law into their own hands. "We wish to thank members of the public for volunteering information to police officers. Today's action has proved that together we can deal with the runaway crime", he said. A motorcycle belonging to the three killed suspects was burned. One of the criminal gangs under the trail of the police is the machete-armed and has christened itself as 'moja kwisha'. The gang is said to be shifting its operations to trading centres. Bodies of the three were taken to Kitale county referral morgue awaiting an autopsy.