Police in Juja and officials from Kenya Power have impounded vandalised power equipments worth more than Sh70 million in Kimbo, Juja subcounty. Among the seized equipment include 15 transformers, electricity cables and conductors. Energy Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma, who was present during the Sunday raid, said criminals behind the theft are yet to be apprehended. However, she said detectives are in pursuit of the suspects and they will be apprehended and prosecuted soon. Juma said those behind vandalism of power line equipment are a syndicate involving technicians and engineers who work or worked for KPLC. She said that the ministry in collaboration with the police and members of the public have intensified surveillance to stem the vice. “The vandalism brings huge economic loss and just a cautionary assessment cost about Sh70 – 80 million in losses," she said. "However we have put in place proper measures to tame this insatiable appetite by some crooks who are out to destroy strategic infrastructure at the detriment of Kenyans." Juma urged Kenyans to volunteer information to the authorities to aid in ending the vice. She led the raid months after President Uhuru Kenyatta banned dealings in scrap metal due to increased cases of vandalism. In his statement, Uhuru indicated that no dealer will be allowed to engage in the business until proper guidelines are put in place to regulate the sector. Meanwhile, Juma said Kenyans living near power lines will not be tolerated stating that their stay poses a significant risk in their lives and property owing to the high-power voltage. “We have seen places where people have left voluntarily and we encourage that because it's the intention of the government to ensure the safety of all persons,” she said. Juma also said that the ongoing reforms in the energy sector have started bearing fruits resulting in low power tariffs and ultimately increased profits among manufacturers across the country. “We have been doing a lot in terms of alignments, improving governance, improving commercial losses and the effects are clear as recently expressed by Kenya Association of Manufacturers,” Juma said.