Blazers enterprising striker Eleanor Chebet is poised to lead the team's attack in the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League this season in the absence of all-time top scorer Jacqueline Mwangi. The 21-year-old is ready to step into Mwangi's shoes after the mercurial striker took a break from playing to focus on coaching. The team play Sliders this weekend at City Park Stadium in the opening match. She said winning the golden boot is top of her agenda after falling short in the 2019 season. Chebet was the runner-up top scorer in 2019 with seven goals— a goal less than joint top scorers Mwangi and Strathmore Scorpions' Gilly Okumu who managed eight apiece. After starring for club and country in past assignments, the Mount Elgon native feels this is her season to endear herself to the fans with impressive displays. Her burgeoning reputation coupled with her passion for hockey burns fiercely and her tiger eyes are firmly fixed on bagging the prestigious award. She, however, wants to score against Sliders to lay down a marker for the season. "I want to perform better than I did in the previous season but first, I have to score and help the team beat Sliders," Chebet said. "I want to start the league with a bung. The aim is to win the top scorer's award come the end of the season." The league returns this weekend after a two-year absence. Chebet, who has spent more time training with the national team, feels fitter and ready for the opener. "I am ready physically and mentally. We have trained well and we hope to be on top of our game from the off." In the meantime, Greensharks coach Ben Owaga has taken a one-year break due to work commitment. Owaga, who guided Sharks to fifth place finish in 2019, reckons that the team will be competitive without him but will assist whenever needed. "I can't fully commit to the team at the moment because of work related assignments. I need to balance things and that informed my decision," he said. "The team is stable and I hope they put their best foot forward this season." 