Tusker head coach Robert Matano believes his charges are now well on course for a successful title defence after they ran over Wazito to inch closer to the Kenyan Premier League summit. Goals by Ibrahim Joshua and Deogratious Ojok were enough to spur the reigning champions to an emphatic 3-0 win over the moneybags at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Tuesday. The win proved crucial to coach Robert Matano’s charges who have now secured the second spot on the log with 37 points, six adrift of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. “It couldn’t have turned out any better for us. We deserve the victory after a good performance,” said Matano who was full of flowery words for goalkeeper Patrick Matasi. “The goalkeeper’s performance was splendid and the defence made his work even easier. Generally, the entire team did a good job this afternoon and they all deserve a pat on the back,” said the visibly elated tactician. “All we need to do now is to rectify our shortcomings in our next training sessions,” said Matano. Matano says he is not quaking in the boots over their huge gap with Kakamega Homeboyz, adding that he is more focused on refining his side for more positive results. “The most important thing is that we have bagged maximum points. We are really not worried about what is going on with Homeboyz,” said Matano. As Matano celebrated a perfect afternoon, his opposite number Fred Ambani sulked over a bad day in office. “Generally, all didn’t go according to plan although I must commend the boys for putting up a worthwhile fight against a very good side,” said Ambani. The defeat merely served to deepen Wazito’s woes after Ambani’s appointment as head coach last month seemed to have handed them some repute and a lifeline, albeit momentarily. Deep-rooted financial hiccups coupled with a string of poor results have connived against the side that had been fancied to impress at the start of the season. The outcome leaves them rooted in the 15th spot with 20 points, only two spots above the relegation zone. Last season’s runners-up KCB rallied from behind to squeeze out a point from hard-battling Kenya Police in the preceding encounter. The outcome leaves the bankers fifth on the log with 34 points while the law enforcers are 13th with 24.