President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday led Kenyans in celebrating International Women’s Day. Uhuru arrived at Kenya School of Government in Lower Kabete, Nairobi, at around midday and was received by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her Rwanda counterpart Jeanette Kagame. The head of state is the chief guest at this year's International Women’s Day national celebration. Several leaders have also taken to social media to celebrate women as the world marked International Women’s Day. The day is celebrated on March 8, annually. It is a day set to acknowledge the political, economical, social and cultural achievements across the world and to call to action on Women’s equality. This year’s theme is ‘Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow’. In a video posted on State House's official Twitter handle, several women in leadership positions have been featured. They include Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed, Health Chief Administration Secretary Mercy Mwangangi, Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, among others. The tweet by the State House was to illustrate how the president was committed to appointing women in key leadership positions. Deputy president Wiliam Ruto also joined other Kenyans in celebrating women. He described the women as powerful and hardworking. "Kenya Kwanza commits to placing them at the centre of its decision-making table in appreciation that women can effectively and sustainably drive change in our country. That is why we want to uplift Mama Mboga. Happy International Women's Day," he said. ODM leader Raila Odinga said women should be accorded their deserved place, dignity and honor. "Women hold nations together through their innumerable sacrifices and should be accorded their deserved place, honour, and dignity," he said. NARC-Kenya party leader Charity Ngilu condemned the injustices meted on women, especially the female motorist who was assaulted by boda boda riders on Forest Road in Nairobi on Friday. "In today’s #InternationalWomensDay. I cry with that lady who was assaulted on Forest Road and urge us all to reflect on our society’s moral decadence. The women and children in Ukraine and their specific humanitarian needs also come to mind. We pray for their suffering to end soon," she said in a tweet. Amani National Congress Party leader Musalia Mudavadi urged women to re-dedicate themselves to advocating for humanity and being the unfailing conscience of society. “I would like you to know that I hold you in high esteem and believe you hold the key to the essential well being of our people.” Further, he said that he is advocating for  Kenyan women and urged them to be on the right side of history in championing Uchumi Bora, Pesa Mfukoni. Council Of Governors Chief Executive Officer Mary Mwiti said that the increasing participation of women in the climate discourse will result in equitable and sustainable climate change solutions. As the world unites to celebrate women, Kenyans on Twitter have wished women in the country a  happy International Women's Day, using the hashtag Break the Bias.