Mwalimu National Sacco is set to offload troubled Spire Bank to a local financial institution through an asset purchase agreement. Yesterday, Sacco chief executive Kenneth Odhiambo told a media briefing that talks with a financial firm overseen by the Central Bank of Kenya are almost complete but declined to reveal the identity of the investor. ''On Saturday, delegates at the Sacco's annual general meeting approved the deal and we are just waiting for CBK and the Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority (Sasra) to make it public,'' Odhiambo said. He added that the deal is likely to be concluded by the end of this month. In 2020, the  Sacco, which spent Sh2.4 billion on 75 per cent of the bank's shares in 2015, bought the remaining 25 per cent from businessman Naushad Merali (now deceased) to facilitate uncontested disposal. This, after the bank's financial health, worsened, with liabilities exceeding assets. Spire Bank’s core capital stood at a negative of Sh2.6 billion which is against a Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) threshold. Every lender is required to have a core capital of at least Sh1 billion. At the time, the bank's core capital was beneath total deposit liabilities by 55 per cent against an eight percent coverage requirement and total risk-weighted assets at negative 61.8 per cent against a 10.5 per cent regulatory threshold. It had a liquidity ratio of 7.7 per cent which is 12.3 per cent below CBK’s threshold. Previous attempts by Mwalimu Sacco to sell its stake in the bank collapsed after UK-based crypto lender BlockBank abandoned the deal despite expressing an initial interest in 2018. Odhiambo said that the deal is almost 100 per cent done after the Mwalimu Sacco board's approval, adding that due diligence has been conducted by CBK and Sasra. "I do not want to go into details of this deal considering the sensitivity of institutions involved. The bank has zero value, we simply want to safeguard depositors' money,'' Odhiambo said. During the AGM, delegates agreed to consolidate members' deposits, reduce investment in noncore areas, ride on technology and introduce new segments like Sharia-compliant financial products. Apart from offloading the bank, the Sacco is set to sell off its Mwalimu Asset Management for Sh2.7 billion and plow back depositors' cash. Odhiambo said that restructuring is being done carefully not to send any bad signal to both the banking and insurance sector. The teacher's saving scheme is the market leader in the Sacco sector with an asset base of Sh61 billion as of December 31 last year. It is followed by Stima and Police Saccos respectively. Deposits at the teachers' savings scheme closed the financial year at Sh44.28 billion compared to Sh41.4 billion in the previous year. Membership grew by over 2,000 to 106,602 from 104,544, despite most Saccos recording a high number of member exits. Sacco's turnover during the period rose to Sh7.6 billion from Sh7.2 billion. Yesterday, Odhiambo said that Sacco is planning to push up its asset base by Sh3.5 billion this year.