Days after the EACC gave the DCI a nod to open corruption charges against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, her  deputy Peter Ndambiri now wants his boss to be accountable and cease playing the victim. Ndambiri said the Kirinyaga county government has had serious integrity issues that require the attention of the EACC and DCI. He called on both agencies to descend on the county government offices and carry out thorough investigations so that all those implicated could have their day in court. EACC has recommended Waiguru to be charged with corruption after it emerged she received imprest amounting to Sh10.6 million for non-existent trips. It further recommended that the governor be charged alongside key county officials, amongst them the Finance chief officer. Ndambiri claimed the alleged graft has had negative implications in the daily running of various county departments. In addition, he wants the Treasury to freeze the county funds until all accountability matters are sorted. He disclosed that many of the key county vehicles are stalled for lack of fuel as there is no money to facilitate their functionality. "Many of our vehicles are grounded because we don't have fuel. If fire were to break out, we would not solve the issue because the vehicles are grounded and have no fuel,”said Ndia. Speaking on Monday in Ndia, Ndambiri told off his boss and dared her to be responsible over the accusations. "She (Waiguru) plays the victim while claiming there is a God in heaven and continues to say she has been targeted over her political decision,"he added. "We want her to provide answers to the charges levelled against her because someone should account for how county funds are being utilised." Late last week while responding to the EACC recommendations, Waiguru on her social media accounts termed the move as pure politics intended to punish her for  defecting to UDA party. She claims intimidation messages were being sent to would-be defectors that false charges await them if they dare jump ship. She said the Auditor General's report recorded billions of shillings not accounted for as imprest from the Office of the President, government ministries and Parliament. “No officer has ever been charged for late accounting because such delays are normal and expected. There is no allegation that money was lost, only that it was accounted for late,"said Waiguru “Meanwhile, those who disappeared with billions of shillings meant for sick people continue to walk the streets unmoved because they belong to certain political affiliations.” (Edited by Francis Wadegu)