Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has flagged the possibility of ghost workers in Kericho county. Gathungu also castigated the devolved unit for awarding tenders to ineligible firms. In her 2019-2020 report tabled in the Senate, the auditor exposed ‘confidential’ expenditures incurred by Governor Paul Chepkwony’s administration. The report shows that the county could be paying millions of shillings in salaries and wages to ghost workers. This after it emerged that 1955 employees have not been allocated personal numbers and were being paid outside the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database. The automated database system weeds out non-existent staff, commonly known as ghost workers, from the payroll. “The lack of payroll numbers may lead to loss of funds through ghost employees,” the auditor noted in the report. Further, the audit indicted the county executive of ethnic imbalance in its staff establishment. It shows that up to 92 per cent of the county employees captured in the IPPD hail from the dominant community. This is contrary to the provisions of Section 65(1) (e) of the County Governments Act, 2012. The Act states that County Public Service Board should ensure that at least thirty per cent of the vacant posts at the entry level are filled by candidates who are not from the dominant ethnic community. Gathungu revealed the country executive awarded tenders to a company that had been delisted by the registrar of companies. The 2019-20 financial audit report shows that the county awarded a Sh3.95 million contract to a company for the supply and delivery of water proofing materials and stabiliser. However, the firm had ceased to carry out business as per the notice by the registrar of companies thus not eligible to participate in the procurement process. “Consequently, the Management was in breach of the law and the validity of the expenditure of Sh3.95 million could not be confirmed for the year ended June 30, 2020,” the reports shows. The country’s top auditor revealed that even as the county breach the procurement law, Kericho residents are not getting value for money as some of the projects tendered are poorly executed. For instance, Londiani subcounty hospital, the county constructed a laboratory at a cost of Sh13.90 million. “Though construction works have been completed, the floor developed cracks before the laboratory could be put to use,” the report reads in part. “The store could not be used for storage of drugs and other pharmaceuticals due to lack of ceiling which was not factored." At Soko Huru ICT centre, the county spent Sh1.70 million to erect mast in 2017. However, the project could not be commissioned due to lack of electricity. “As a result, it was not possible to confirm that the county obtained value for money on the expenditure of Sh15.61 million for the year ended June 30, 2020,” the report says. In addition, some projects initiated by the developed unit have stalled ostensibly due to cash flow problems thus denying the residents For instance, the construction of a laboratory at Roret subcounty hospital stalled after the county had incurred Sh3.50 million. This was after the contractor terminated the contract due to lack of payments. This forced the county government to revise the bill of quantities for the remaining to cost Sh6.48 million. “The figure exceeded the projected development budget for 2020-21 of Sh3.43 million by Sh3.05 million,” the report reads. Gathungu also put Governor Chepkwony’s administration to task for incurring Sh401, 556 as confidential expenditure but could not explain its nature and purpose. The report also accused the county of making irregular contribution to Council of County Governors. The county paid Sh2 million to the council contrary to Section 37 of the Intergovernmental Relations Act, 2012. The Act provides that the operational expenses in respect of structures and institutions established in the Act shall be catered for by the national government. (Edited by Tabnacha O)