It's all system go for the Law Society of Kenya's elections scheduled for Thursday. The IEBC is conducting the election but it is managed by the society's seven-member elections board headed by senior counsel Janmohamed Zehrabanu. Linda Kiome Gitonga, the caretaker president of the society, told the Star  the board was independent and had prepared for a free and fair election. She is running to be Upcountry Representative. The contest among candidates has been tough and most have travelled across the country to meet their advocate supporters. Posts on offer include that of president, vice president, council members representing various interests and the society's female representative to the Judicial Service Commission. Five candidates were cleared to vie for the president's post. They are Nairobi branch chairman Eric Theuri, former vice president Carolyne Kamende, former treasurer Bernhard Kipng'etich, Matthew Nyabena and Omwanza Ombati. Those going for the female JSC representative post include Julie Soweto, Jackline Ingutiah and Christine Kipsang. Debora Ajwang’ Anditi, Boniface Akusala, David Nyamweya, and Faith Aoko Odhiambo are seeking the vice president's position. Theuri had told the Star in a past interview that his agenda is to empower society's branches and give them profiles to attract partnerships with donors. For Ombati, ensuring that lawyers practice in a conducive environment without intimidation is his main priority. Kamende told the Star that she wants to entrench accountability in LSK and is proud of what they achieved together with her former boss Nelson Havi, but “the washing of dirty linen in public.” On Tuesday, she told the Star if she is elected, she will continue with the firm stance on the rule of law and confront the state if need be, but will forge consensus on any matter of contention. And if consensus is not attainable, she said, she will adopt the decision of the majority as long as it is lawful. Further, should any acrimony arise in the council in the course of making a decision, Kamende said, she would not go public about them “so that we don’t wash the dirty linen in public.” She has been serving as the vice president of the Law Society of Kenya since 2020. The society experienced turbulent times during Havi's administration and the 13-member council split in fierce hostilities that ran down its operations. Havi retained Kamende, Esther Ang’awa and Herine Kabita on his side, while the other nine remained in the opposing faction. Kamende said the genesis of the problem was the refusal of the secretariat to avail documents for audit and that this is what resulted in the push to oust former CEO Mercy Wambua. Things went south from there. The only thing she regrets in the whole saga, she said, was the public airing of the grievances, sometimes framed pejoratively on social media. “The washing of the linen in public, the abuses on social media and the factionalism. They really weighed me down,” she said. Should she win on Thursday, Kamende said, her focus will be on repairing damaged bridges, sprucing up the image of the society, secure its monies and concentrating on the welfare concerns of advocates. “Being the president and the spokesperson of the society, it will be my duty to unify members and centralise communication so that the information that gets out there is what the council has collectively agreed on,” she said. The mother of two said when she served at the helm of the society, she established a welfare care package for advocates to attend to their needs, including during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I’m a woman of firsts. I established care packages for lawyers, even depleting my accounts, during the pandemic and also developed the sexual harassment policy for them," Kamende said. She said she also developed the policy of seed money worth Sh500,000 given to advocates to form their firms. Proud of her achievements, she said that if elected, she will entrench them, even making them institutional to improve the advocates' practising environment. She said with experience serving as Nairobi representative in the previous council and as vice president, she has what it takes to serve at the top-most office of the group. "I have a track record of being a responsive and present leader. I have served the members all along even with my personal resources. So I will serve them well if they give me the opportunity." Kamende said she believed that the society must remain the vigilant watchdog in the interest of the public and she was up to the task. But her approach will be a little nuanced, she said. "I believe in checks and balances. But I will engage the justice sector players at the National Council on Administration of Justice where LSK is a member as the first port of call before resorting to litigation." "I will embrace dialogue and consultation but in a case where a policy or a law directly flies in the face of the law, the constitution and the human rights, we won't negotiate. We will see them in court."