Some ODM members allied to Kisumu governor aspirant Ken Obura have defended him over allegations that he is planning to disrupt Azimio la Umoja rally on Friday. This comes after officials led by county ODM chairman Ayiecho Olweny accused Obura of planning to cause chaos and mayhem. They said Obura was dishing out money to youths to mobilise them to cause violence, an allegation that those allied to Obura have denied. Olweny, who was accompanied by Kisumu Central ODM chairman Seth Ochieng Kanga alias Adui during a press briefing at Azimio regional office on Tuesday, said they were aware of the plot and have reported the matter to the police. The rally, which will be held at the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium, will be attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kanga alleged that Obura was mobilising youths to heckle some leaders, especially Governor Anyang' Nyong’o. “He is walking around with youths armed with machetes and guns. This should be investigated by the police,” he said. But speaking separately, Obura's supporters dismissed the claims as false, unfounded and baseless, saying they are championing democracy and support Raila’s presidential bid. Led by former speaker Gabriel Ochieng, they said they are bonafide members of ODM and should not be profiled wrongly by some people who are afraid of internal democracy and competition. He dismissed claims that Obura was not a member of the party. “What you are seeing or hearing is simply the political wave of Obura who is keen to unseat Nyong’o. They should stop preaching violence.  Instead, they should unite aspirants by consolidating supporters behind Raila,” Ochieng said. Obura, who is backed by Senator Fred Outa, former speaker Onyango Oloo and former governor Jack Ranguma, will face Nyong'o in the ODM nominations. Ochieng said Olweny and Kanga were to blame for the animosity in the party due to what they termed as reckless remarks and open endorsement of particular aspirants. The duo has not been impartial after having publicly endorsed Nyong’o for re-election, eliciting backlash among the party supporters. Ochieng said Olweny and Kanga were illegally in office and any statements from them were null and void, and not the actual views of the party. He said Olweny and Kanga should have resigned from the party leadership as they are contesting Kisumu senator and Market/Milimani seats respectively. The former speaker, who is eying Kondele MCA seat, said they should be free to sell their ideologies for the electorate to elect leaders of their choice. Obura, Ochieng said, was peacefully traversing the county to popularise his governor bid without any form of violence. “We all want peace and a win for Raila in the forthcoming general election.  This requires unity and collective responsibility,” he said. He further said Obura is ready and fully prepared to face Nyong’o in the ODM nominations slated this month. Bunge la Wananchi chairman Salim Onyango alias Tosha said Olweny and Kanga should embrace all party supporters and members under the Azimio umbrella. He told Kanga to report the allegations to the police instead of rocking the party from within. Onyango said Obura’s team will forge ahead with a peaceful campaign and not be deterred by the empty allegations. Kisumu Central OCPD Anthony Maina said no reports have been made concerning plans to disrupt the rally. "We have not received such information on my desk," he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)