Jubilee MPs have told Othaya residents to blame Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party for the scrapping of their constituency. Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni said the solution to retain Othaya and other constituencies was in the Building Bridges Initiative but Ruto's team opposed it. The lawmakers spoke in Othaya town on Monday during a Jubilee meeting at the CDF hall. Kioni said it is ridiculous for Ruto and his team to visit the constituencies set to be scrapped to campaign. “He should prepare for stiff opposition there is no way you can support the scrapping of Ndaragwa and other constituencies then expect us to back you,” he said. He said Mt Kenya will now lose seven constituencies. He said UDA team also objected efforts to have equitable distribution of resources and creating 37 new constituencies through BBI. At least 27 protected constituencies risk being scrapped after this year’s election with seven of them in Mt Kenya. They include Othaya, Tetu, Mukurwe-ini, Ndaragwa, Mathioya, Siakago and Kangima. “You may not have a chance to elect an MP again after August 9. These constituencies will be merged and residents will have to fight for  resources,” he said. However he told residents that they can still save the constituencies if they vote for ODM leader Raila Odinga because he promised to revive BBI. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth called on residents to support Odinga whom he termed as forgiving leader who can unite the nation. Ngunjiri Wambugu, Nyeri town MP urged the residents to support Jubilee. He said they should ensure the party has majority seats in the Senate, Parliament, Council of Governor’s and County Assemblies to wield sufficient bargaining power. Jude Njomo (MP Kiambu town) said this year’s elections will be unique as the region will have no presidential candidate. "We want resources divided equitably and to achieve this, we must have one of us at the negotiating table," he said. Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya) said President Kenyatta is reaching out to other parties to foster unity in the country. He said Othaya has benefited a lot in Kenyatta’s tenure and should support his preferred presidential candidate for the region to be in the next government. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said Othaya people should be in the forefront in supporting Odinga because he supported former President Mwai Kibaki, in 2002 during the famous "Kibaki Tosha" declaration. Others present at the meeting were MPs Peter Kimari (Mathioya), Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga), and Anthony Kiai (Mukurwe-ini) among others.