Kwale leaders have warned politicians against politicising religion and disrespecting God and his servants. The remarks follow an increase of attacks on religious leaders. The leaders are being accused of taking political sides, being corrupted and used as campaign tools. Led by the Msambweni MP Feisal Bader they said political leaders should put politics aside when it comes to matters of spiritual beliefs. "Let's keep mosques, churches and clergy away from political bluffs. Politics should not make us arrogant to an extent of insulting God and people who serve him," he said. Bader spoke on Sunday during the diaconate ordination ceremony of Fr Gabriel Mutunga Musyoka at Mivumoni Catholic Church in Msambweni. He said people should at all cost show respect to places of worship and priests who have solely devoted to serving God. The lawmaker told politicians to shun crucifying churches and mosques based on malicious grounds. He said the political class should blame themselves for their own downfall and mishaps. Recently, President Uhuru Kenyatta scolded some church leaders for receiving bribe money from dishonest politicians. Uhuru made the remarks at Sagana State Lodge when he met leaders from Mount Kenya. Bader said the word of God came before politics and it is high treason to politicise the religious teachings in the eyes of God. The MP said he strongly believes churches and mosques are there to instill virtues and guide people to the right path. He said the clergy deserve to be praised and supported and not to be attacked politically. Bader said as the August 9 polls nears, leaders should preach unity and not divisive politics. He said residents should reject tribal politics and embrace unity. "We have lived in harmony for years, so let's not allow ourselves to be divided based on tribalism, religious beliefs or race," the MP said. Kinango Catholic Church priest Faustine Mtenzi said political leaders should be moderate and observe peaceful coexistence while campaigning. He said politicians should be tolerant of one another to curb violence and ensure peace prevails before and after elections. Mtenzi said everyone has a responsibility in making sure the polls are conducted peacefully and are credible. "We must stand united and appreciate one another at all the time because that is what God wants," he said. The priest said residents should also join hands in praying for peace and stability. He said credible polls is a way of fostering peace and unity. Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani said Kwale residents should vote leaders based on their development records. She said residents should keep off leaders whose main focus is to cause division. "Choose wisely the type of leaders you want to have and keep off politicians who propagate tribalism," Achani said. The DG said she will enhance cooperation with various religious leaders for spiritual and economic growth. Last month, National Council of Churches of Kenya launched a series of campaigns to promote peace and stop violence ahead of the August polls. NCCK member and Ukunda Free Pentecostal Church pastor JaneGlory Gichane said residents should shun violence and resist being divided along religion, tribe or skin color. Gichane said residents should also desist from using vulgar language and control their utterances before, during and after the campaigns. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)