Former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi’s main rival Mohamed Abdikadir has stepped down in his favour. Abdullahi’s seeks to win back the gubernatorial seat he lost in 2017. Abdikadir who hails from the same Mantaan subclan as Abdullahi has been crisscrossing the vast county to popularise his bid. Initial efforts by the elders to intervene bore no fruit, however after consultations he has finally bowed down to their request. Political analysts say Abdikadir might have eaten into the vote basket of Abdullahi had he insisted on contesting all the way to the ballot. Chairman of Mantaan community, Qanyare Ruban thanked Abdikadir for accepting to sacrifice his political ambition for the sake of the community’s unity. Ruban spoke on Saturday in Wajir town moments after uniting the two. “I’m so happy because what we have been working for has now come to fruition. I declare that Abdullahi will be the sole candidate for Wajir governor from Mantaan subclan of the larger Degodia clan,” he said. The chairman said they now start the journey of uniting the community and making alliances in a bid to strike a winning team. “Our eyes are now fixed on getting the seat.” Abdullahi thanked the elders for their efforts in coming up with one candidate. He also congratulated Abdikadir for shelving his ambition for the interest of the family. “Today’s family verdict in regards to the gubernatorial position was one we were eagerly waiting for. We are bound by family decisions, the family unity is above everything else. "However, I do not take such a brave decision from my brother for granted. I assure the people of Wajir, we shall work together to bring back hope in our great county," he said. Abdullahi said the move proves that the journey to restore hope in Wajir has the blessings of everyone. “I assure you that your unifying decision shall go a long way in offering our great people of Wajir the transformative leadership they deserve,” he said. The former governor said having been at the helm of leadership he knows what needs to be fixed for the county to get back on its feet. The county is inhabited by the Degodia, Ogaden and the Ajuran with the former being the majority. They occupy Wajir East, Wajir West, Tarbaj and Eldas subcounties. Abdullahi had already bagged the backing of major Degodia subclans in October last year. The aspirant who will be vying on an ODM ticket believes his track record and firm leadership will propel him back to the seat. The battle for the seat has attracted at least seven candidates. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)