Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua has assured members of free and fair nominations ahead of the August 9, general elections. The Machakos governor said aspirants shouldn’t risk being thrown out of other political parties through flowed nominations. He, instead, urged all those aspiring to contest for various political positions across the country to join the MCC party. “Aspirants shouldn’t risk being thrown out of other parties through flowed nominations. Come to Maendeleo Chap Chap party where there will be a free and fair nomination process,” Mutua said. Mutua addressed the press at his office in Machakos County on Thursday. He said though the nominations will be competitive, some aspirants will be subjected to consensus while polling will be done in other areas. Mutua said there will be direct nominations where required but in line with the party’s structures and laws. “I’m inviting people wherever they are to join Maendeleo Chap Chap party. MPs, MCAs, senators, governors, woman representatives, all seats that they want to contest for. Welcome to the Maendeleo Chap Chap party,” Mutua said. Mutua said MCCP will field candidates for all elective positions in the country apart from the Presidency. On matters of national politics, Mutua said the party had resolved to only negotiate and enter into a coalition with Azimio parties. “We are currently in negotiations within Azimio and we will announce this in due course, when that is ready and just within Azimio,” Mutua said. “We are entering into coalition agreement and supporting Azimio. Maendeleo Chap Chap Party believe in democratic party nominations that is free and fair. So far, nobody has been given a direct ticket by the party,” Mutua said. Mutua said the party resolved to hold an aspirants meeting who have already registered and signed with the MCC party on March 3, so as to give them either the certificate or tell them about the certificate’s issuance process. He said this will be followed by a national delegates conference scheduled for March 19. “And we want to tell our people that MCCP doesn’t believe in zoning, setting political seats to some individuals and that if you join the party and get a ticket you will get to the ballot. The governor also announced various changes in his administration terming it cabinet reshuffle. “I have today made some initial changes in my government to enhance the proper and efficient provision of government services,” Mutua said. The governor said the changes also filled the positions left vacant after the resignation of some officers to seek public office. CECM Roads, Transport and Public Works Naomi Mutie doubles as the acting CECM Finance and Resource Management - CECM Water, Irrigation, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources Morris Alwanga now doubles as acting CECM Tourism, Youth, Sports and Culture, while CECM Energy, Lands, Housing and Urban Development Everlyne Mutie doubles as acting CECM Trade, Industrialization, Forensic and Innovation. CECM Public Service, Quality Management and ICT was named acting CECM Education, Skills, Training, Social Welfare and Civic Empowerment – Chief Officer Administration and coordination (coordinate Kenya Devolution Support Programme KDSP) James Gutetah doubles as the acting Chief Officer Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sports. CECM Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperative Development Urbanus Musyoka and his CECM County Administration and Decentralized Units Titus Kavila retained their positions while CECM Education, Skills Training, Social Welfare and Civic Empowerment Ruth Mutua was moved to the Health and Emergency Services docket. Acting Chief Officer Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sports Victor Muniafu was moved to Chief Executive Officer, Machahood portfolio. The governor appointed Stephen Ndwiki as the acting Chief Officer Water, Irrigation, Environment, Climate Change and National Resources in a new appointment. He said the changes take effect immediately.