The gunfire on former Kabete MP George Muchai’s car seven year ago in the City Centre took less than one minute, the court heard. Muchai, his driver Stephen Wambugu and two bodyguards police constable Samwel Lekakeny and Samwel Kimathi were killed on the morning of February 7, 2015, in Nairobi. The first police officer to go to the scene of crime testified on Tuesday, telling the court that he heard gunshots. AP sergeant Saverio Mugo told Justice Justus Bwonong’a that he was on night duty at Nyayo House when the incident happened. Mugo said he was with his four colleagues and at 3am they heard continuous gunshots coming from Uhuru Highway and Kenyatta Avenue roundabout that lasted less than one minute. Even though he did not witness the shooting he said the gunshots they heard happened so fast and in quick succession. He testified that together with two other officers they decided to go check and left one of them to keep guard. When he arrived at the scene he saw the late MP’s car had gunshots and there was a second saloon car parked behind it. “In the car, I saw four men and there was blood all over inside the vehicle,” he said. Mugo further said he then called one of his bosses to explain what had happened and shortly two police officers in uniform joined them. At that time, he said members of the public had started coming towards the car and the four victims were still inside. Later two Land cruisers came one had GSU officers and the other had regular police officers to give reinforcement. “My Lord, we helped each other to manage the crowds then I left my two colleagues there and went back to Nyayo House to help the officer we had left,” Mugo said. However, during cross examination when he was shown the pictures of Muchai’s car, he said there was no blood, insisting that when he went there that day he saw a lot of blood. In the case, Eric Isabwa, alias chairman Raphael Kimani, alias Kim butcher, Mustapha Kimani, alias Musto; Stephen Astiva, alias Chokore; Jane Wanjiru, alias Shiro; Margaret Njeri and Simon Wambugu have been charged with the murder of the four. Samson Wambugu, who lost a son in the incident also gave his testimony on how he went to identify the body of his late son. Wambugu, a Jua kali artisan is the father of the late Stephen Wambugu who was a driver of the late MP. Wambugu told court that he was called and told his son had been shot so he went to Lee Funeral home to identify him. “I identified the body of my firstborn son, I was shocked so I didn’t look at the injuries,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)