Its all system go after Nairobi county government's ground breaking  ceremony for the construction of the first OlympAfrica Centre in Kenya. This comes exactly a year after the Anne Kananu-led administration signed an MoU with the National Olympic Committee of Kenya  on the Sh35 million project. The county government was expected to provide land for the construction of the sports complex while NOCK undertook to source funds for the construction. Kananu on Tuesday said it was a privilege that NOCK selected Nairobi to join 37 other centres in the whole of Africa to construct a Sports complex. "Today's commissioning of the Sh35 million  OlympAfrica sports complex marks an important milestone not only for me, but largely for Nairobi’s youth who live in Ruai and its environs who stand to benefit from this facility,” she said. The governor was speaking in Muhuri Muchiri Ruai ward, Kasarani subcounty. Once complete, the centre will serve residents from Ruai, Mihang’o, Mwiki, Utawala, Kasarani and even beyond. "Once the Sports complex is complete, it will assist with the development of talented young athletes and nurture future sportsmen and women who will be able to represent Kenya in various sporting disciplines," said Kananu. City Hall also forecasts that the centre will  greatly boost the tapping and growth of talent among the youth and also create jobs in the area. Once completed, the academy will provide easily accessible sports facilities for disadvantaged youth, as well as ensure advanced youth social development through sport. It is also expected to keep the youth from the area and its environs away from crime, idleness and drug abuse. The Sports Centre will comprise of a 400m running track, indoor gymnasium, volleyball, basketball handball, tennis courts and swimming pools, hostels among other facilities. In addition, it will have a health centre, spectator stands/bleachers and a perimeter wall. NOCK President Paul Tergat commended Kananu’s  administration for their  support in ensuring they secured land to construct the sporting facility. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)