Seven aspirants have declared their interest in the Lamu county senator seat held by Anwar Loitiptip. They include former Lamu East MP Mohammed Hashim, who served as the county assembly speaker between 2013 and 2017. Mohammed Hashim Hashim, who is currently on the board of directors at the Lamu port-LAPSSET, will be vying under Azimio la Umoja movement. Born in 1965 in Lamu, Hashim attended Lamu Primary School and later joined Khamis High School before enrolling for an accounting course at the then Mombasa Polytechnic, now Technical University of Mombasa. He would later further his studies at the Management University of Africa before plunging into politics in 1992. He unsuccessfully contested for the Senate seat in the 2017 general elections when he lost to Loitiptip. “I have gathered experience in my many years of leadership and I have commitment when I served as MP and speaker,” Hashim said. Also in the  senatorial race is Haki Africa board of directors chairperson Yusuf Aboubakar, a renowned lawyer and former nominated MCA in the Lamu between 2013 and 2017. Others are: Joseph Githuku Kamau, medical doctor; Ahmed Bunu Haji, Lamu philanthropist and youth leader; Francis Mugo; and businessman Khamis Bwangao, a businessman. Yusuf Aboubakar Aboubakar described himself as fit for the job owing to his many years as an advocate. He was born in 1969 to a fisherman in Siyu village in Lamu East. Aboubakar’s family relocated to Kanamai in Kilifi county from where he attended Barani and Serani Primary Schools before joining Shimo La Tewa Secondary in Mombasa. He would then proceed to the University of Nairobi where he graduated with a Bachelor of Law Degree and started practicing as an advocate based in Mombasa in 1998. He opened his law firm ‘Aboubakar Mwanakitina and Company Advocates in 2013 with branches in Lamu, Malindi and Mombasa. The lawyer who will be running on an ANC party ticket says his major motivation is to ensure devolution funding to Lamu is increased for better development. Since devolution began in 2013, Lamu county has been receiving the least amount of funds from treasury every year. “I intend to unify all leaders here so that we have one common development agenda for Lamu," Aboubakar said. "I will also ensure every money allocated to Lamu goes into good use." Khamis Bwangao Businessman Khamis Bwangao is also in the race and says his manifesto focuses on uplifting key economic sectors in Lamu like fishing, tourism and agriculture. Born in Junju village in Kilifi county in 1973, Bwangao has spent his entire life in Mpeketoni and Kibaoni towns in Lamu. He has been actively engaged in businesses in the island. He attended Tom Mboya Primary School before joining Bamburi Secondary School in Mombasa. He later pursued a Bachelor of Commerce Degree at the University of Nairobi. Bwangao is running on a Kanu party ticket. He said if elected, he will prioritise the health and education sectors which have been struggling especially due to insecurity. “I intend to ensure all squatters get land and title deeds. I am looking to set up fruit and fish processing industries to ensure a common market for our fishermen and farmers respectively," Bwangao said. "I will also look into reviving all collapsed cotton granaries because I am a businessman and I know that will change Lamu." Francis Mugo Lamu politician Francis Mugo said he was confident of capturing the seat in the forthcoming elections. Mugo says he wants to offer residents the much-needed leadership which has been lacking from his predecessors. Mugo who has yet to reveal the political party he will be running on, says as senator, he will monitor the usage of county resources and ensure they are not misused. He also pledged to link the youth to job opportunities while also ensuring the grievances of the residents are properly represented in senate. “My manifesto is wide but my major focus will be to market Lamu both nationally and internationally as an investment hub with huge untapped potential,”Mugo said. Born and raised in Mpeketoni in 1990, Mugo says he is looking to engage investors and lure them to invest in Lamu by providing information on available opportunities. Mugo attended Uzida Primary School where he sat his KCPE in 2004 before proceeding to Mpeketoni Boys High School. He later joined the Technical University of Mombasa where pursued a Bachelor of Commerce, Accounts option. He later enrolled for a Bachelors of Law at the University of London. He is currently attached to the Mwaure and Mwaure Waihiga Company Advocates. Ahmed Bunu Medical doctor Ahmed Bunu,  who is running on the ODM party ticket, said he wants to put his experience as a medic to work. He says he will ensure the health sector receives the much-needed boost to serve the people of Lamu better through adequate funding. “I have the experience on how to improve the health sector. I am also looking to improve agriculture," Bunu said. "Lamu being a top producer of cashew nuts, coconut, mangoes among other products, I have strategies in place to ensure farmers benefit fully." Joseph Githuku Githuku pledges to bank on all his experience in leadership to ensure the county attains development. Incumbent Senator Anwar Loitiptip is among legislators allied to Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance. Loitiptip was elected for the first time in 2017 on a Jubilee Party ticket. Pundits opine that he has an edge over the rest of the aspirants owing to his massive influence as the incumbent.