Germany has asked Kenyans to verify fake news going around about Africans being discriminated against in Ukraine. In a series of tweets, the German embassy urged that information should be verified before being posted on social media. "We also note with concern the many rumours circulating on #KoT (Kenyans on Twitter) regarding this topic as well," the embassy said. "Please verify the information before you repost. This attack on Ukraine is also fought with active disinformation." Thousands of African and other foreign nationals, particularly students, have been scrambling to leave Ukraine following Russia's invasion. With this, some Kenyans have been sharing and re-sharing some unsubstantiated claims on Ukraine without verifying the information. All Kenyan citizens in Ukraine have been accounted for and marked as safe amid the worsening crisis in the country. Ministry of Foreign Affairs said 79 Kenyans, a majority of them being students, had by Monday left the besieged country and are currently seeking refuge in several foreign countries that border Ukraine. Ukraine borders seven countries: Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Moldova, Russia, and Belarus. The embassy further condemned any reports of African students being discriminated against in Ukraine. But reports have emerged that Africans are being treated differently and sometimes prevented from leaving. "We take these reports very seriously. Every case is one too many. We strongly condemn any type of discrimination, no matter by whom or under which circumstance," the German embassy said on Wednesday. In a series of tweets, the embassy said they will work on quick and pragmatic solutions for everyone fleeing the violence. "Africans fleeing Ukraine have already arrived in Germany and are being provided with support. We apply unbureaucratic solutions to anyone who needs a visa in these dramatic circumstances," it said. "To our knowledge, these incidents are individual ones in an ongoing dramatic humanitarian crisis of the Russian President Putin's making."