Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Caretaker Committee chairman, Aaron Ringera has expressed hope that the FKF branches will ultimately agree to engage his team following a botched meeting on Wednesday. The committee was forced to go back to the drawing board after invited officials drawn from the 20 FKF branches gave the planned meeting a wide berth citing illegalities. Only two branches — Kisii and Nairobi West — sent representatives. Ringera made the remarks moments before his team retreated for a closed-door session to chart the way forward. “We didn't expect it to end this way but we hope we will be able to meet in the future to set things straight,” Ringera said. FKF Caretaker Committee head of leagues and competitions, Ali Amour was emphatic that they would strictly be guided by the supreme law of the country in the course of the planned round-table discussions. “It is true Fifa statutes actually exist but there is no single day they will ever be supreme to the  Kenyan Constitution,” said Amour. “Football must be played at the end of the day, the country must move forward and so we hope to find a lasting solution in the coming days,” said Amour. Murang'a branch chairman Robert Macharia had written a letter to the committee on the eve of the meeting enumerating conditions that should be met before the meeting. “We shall only engage bodies that are recognised by Fifa and as far as we are concerned, the Caretaker Committee is not one of them,” said Wachira. He insisted that the Caretaker Committee lacked the mandate to demand classified documents. “At the onset, I don't necessarily agree with the manner of the appointment of the Caretaker Committee and I reserve the right to challenge the appointment in accordance with the laid down legal procedures,” read the letter. “Article 39 (1)(a) of the FKF constitution provides that you shall only exercise powers that do not come within the sphere of the responsibility of the General Assembly or are not reserved for other bodies by law or under the Constitution.” “On the financial issue, the FKF constitution (Article 46) provides for the appointment of the audit, finance, and legal committees whose member is not drawn from the National Executive Committee. “The substantive holders of those offices are in place and the Caretaker Committee can't exercise the powers of those committees,” read the letter.