Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has been increasingly denounced by  ODM leaders over his conditions to join Azimio movement. Kalonzo on Tuesday made public a secret pre-election pact of 2017 between him and the Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga. He demanded the ODM chief should honour the MoU, saying Raila would back Kalonzo. On Wednesday, Kisumu Governor Anyan'g Nyong'o hit out at Kalonzo, describing him as a coward who should not stand in the way of the country's liberators. Speaking at Lumumba Hospital, Nyong'o said the Wiper leader had no moral authority to lecture Kenyans on democratic ideals. "I don't see how my friend Kalonzo can anywhere claim more credible democratic credentials and credentials for the liberation of this country than Raila," he said. He told the Wiper leader, who is also one of the OKA principals, to stop grumbling. "Kalonzo is once more complaining. Grumbling is all sin," the governor said. Nyong'o said he was older than the former vice president and that in the fight for democracy and second liberation, he only knows that the man who was at the centre of it all was Raila. "And I remember as Young Turks, we risked a lot for the sake of this country. Tulijitolea mhanga , to liberate this country and I can't see anyone in this country who can be as selfless as Raila," Nyong'o said. The governor noted that the country was facing appointment with destiny and the appointment require leaders to make tough choices. "Once in every nation comes a time to make a decision. At such times, brave ones make decisions while cowards stands aside," he said. Nyong'o heaped praise on President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila whom he noted made a critical decision [the handshake] that saved the country when it was in dire straits and about to split in the middle. "I see in Azimio two people who were brave at one point in the history of this country in March 2018. They let aside their self interest. They made a decision to move the country forward, " he said. Kalonzo said he was willing to work with Raila again but insisted that the agreement he had with the ODM leader be made part of the fresh negotiations. In the arrangement, Raila would back Kalonzo in future elections after 2017 whether he won in the last elections or not. If he won, he would gradually hand more and more substantial tasks to Muyoka. Kalonzo and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya)  eamed up with Raila under Nasa with Kalonzo as the 2017 running mate. Nasa has since been dissolved with Musalia and Wetang'ula joining the Kenya Kwanza Alliance which also brings in UDA whose leader is Deputy President William Ruto. Kalonzo on the other hand is in OKA, which has shown interest in working with Azimio although the movements are yet to ratify the alliances. (Edited by V. Graham)