MP George Theuri, Mark Muriithii Mwenje and Kennedy Odhiambo are eyeing the Embakasi West Parliamentary seat. The three contestants are rolling up their sleeves to battle at the ballot in the August 9 polls. Theuri, a close ally to Deputy President William Ruto, is seeking a third term under the UDA party. His counterparts Murithii (Jubilee) and Odhiambo (ODM) also seek to secure party tickets ahead of nominations. The IEBC has gazetted election timelines with political parties expected to conduct their nominations, resolve intra-party disputes and submit names of candidates by May 26. Embakasi West is one of Nairobi’s 17 subcounties with a population of 187,020 constituents. It consists of four wards; Kariobangi South, Umoja One, Mowlem and Umoja Two. IEBC data shows that as of 2017, Embakasi West had 126,682 registered voters; Kariobangi South – 35,309, Mowlem -18,410, Umoja One -36,281 and Umoja Two – 36,682. MP Theuri Theuri's journey to Parliament can be traced back to 2007. This was during the reforms on the inspectorate officers popularly known as Kanjo. As a second hand clothes (mitumba) seller, him and his counterparts had many run-ins with Kanjo. The officers then demolished stalls on Umoja’s Moi Drive, where the legislator was stationed. “When the askaris raided our businesses, we tried reaching the then area councillor in vain. That angered me and my colleagues and it is then that I felt the urge to defend the rights of the youth in Umoja One,” Theuri said. Born and raised in Umoja’s Eastlands estate, he was then elected as Umoja One councillor in 2007. In 2013, he become the first Embakasi West MP under The National Alliance party. Theuri beat ODM’s Brian Weke after garnering 40,606 votes against his 35,333. In 2017, he was re-elected under the Jubilee Party, beating Tom Agimba of ODM with 47,848 votes, against Agimba's 30,983 votes. Kennedy Odhiambo With the slogan ‘Work towards Change’ Odhiambo hopes to become the first ODM party member to win the Embakasi West parliamentary seat. He is the chairperson of the ROG matatu sacco that has offered employment to the youths especially from Eastlands. Born and raised by a single mother in Nairobi’s Jerusalem estate, Odhiambo popularly known as “ Odhis”, he has faced hardships in his life. He said this led to him acquiring leadership skills. In his early years, he attended Dr Livingstone Primary School and later joined Taranganya High School. In 2017, during the second Nairobi government, he was appointed the chairperson of the Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Control Board. In his tenure, Odhiambo led several crackdowns against illicit liquor sold in Eastland and also liquor stores without licenses. “When one is appointed in any area where your leadership skills are required, you do the work wholeheartedly," he said. In his bid to succeed Theuri, Odhiambo has crafted a manifesto which he said is a well thought out development agenda, custom made for the people of Embakasi West. “Being a leader with a lot of experience in dealing with people, I believe my manifesto is the voice of the constituents," he added. Odhiambo said the manifesto is anchored on improving the quality of education, healthcare and access to clean water and sanitation. He also said he aims to improve and add on the current infrastructure that promotes sports activities, roads and social amenities. “Security is also key and I will ensure the unemployed youths will get involved in social activities like sports, that will keep them away from drugs and criminal activities,” Odhiambo said. At the policy level, the aspirant said he seeks to initiate and enact favourable laws for the development of structures and systems in Embakasi West. Mark Muriithii Mwenje Muriithi, son to former Embakasi MP David Mwenje is also seeking to represent Embakasi West residents in the National Assembly. This will be his second attempt after he unsuccessfully vied  in 2017. He lost to Theuri during the Jubilee party primaries. If elected, Muriithii who is also a city lawyer, said he aims to give the subcounty the facelift it deserves. He said the essence of devolution is to ensure funds are devolved to the grassroots, but this hasn’t been happening. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)