Celtic and Rangers are set to play an Old Firm derby outside Scotland for the first time with a meeting at the Sydney Super Cup in November. Australian A-League clubs Sydney FC and Western Sydney Wanderers are reportedly the other two teams taking part. Celtic confirmed their participation, without naming the opposition, in the tournament to be held during the domestic break for the Qatar World Cup. It will be an “emotional” homecoming for manager Ange Postecoglou. While Rangers have yet to comment, the Scottish giants’ involvement has been hailed as a coup by Stuart Ayres, Western Sydney’s Minister for Enterprise, Investment and Trade, Minister for Tourism and Sport. “Sydney has kicked another goal as Australia’s home of football with the world’s best clubs coming out to play our hometown heroes in the Sydney Super Cup,” he said. “What better way to start than with a historic rivalry like the Celtic vs Rangers derby.” The exhibition tournament is to feature three matches over five nights from 16 November and will be played again in 2025, according to the New South Wales government. Australian boss Postecoglou is relishing a “special” trip, adding: “I know how big this club is back home. For me to go back home as the manager of it, it’ll be emotional. “There are a lot of guys I grew up with and shared a dressing room with who are diehard Celtic supporters. They are going to see their mate bringing their team Down Under. “The people who love this football club in Australia, they’re all in. They’re going to be there at every game, at the airport, at every training session. “Everywhere the players go, they’ll realise why this football club is so special and the reach it does have.” Sunday’s draw with Hibernian saw Celtic drop points in the league for the first time this calendar year. The league leaders, who remain three points clear, lacked cutting edge at Easter Road without strikers Kyogo Furuhashi and Giorgos Giakoumakis, who was missing because of illness. The Greek striker “probably won’t start but might be involved” against St Mirren, said Postecoglou, who will “wait and see how he’s feeling”. With just 10 fixtures remaining, the Celtic boss has challenged his side to stick to their principles as they prepare to face sides with something on the line. “Every game does have an edge,” Postecoglou said. “Every team is playing for something, whether it’s avoiding relegation, getting into the top half, Europe, championships. There’s a fight for everything out there. “Irrespective of that, we know that the next 10 games, every one is going to be a real arm wrestle. I don’t think you will find that any team is not going to fight for something in these games. “St Mirren’s form has been as good as anyone’s apart from ours in recent times and we know that’s a danger.”