More than 200 riders were arrested in Nairobi CBD as the state intensified a crackdown following the assault on a female motorist along Wangari Maathai Road. Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai said the operation against the boda boda riders would continue. “We will not stop in this drive,” he said. More than 80 had on Tuesday been presented in court at Milimani as police planned to charge them with various offences. Earlier, 16 more bodaboda riders were Monday arrested in a police operation in Nairobi over the incident. This increased to 32, the number of riders who were arrested in the operation, with 12 motorcycles impounded. But police said only 16 had been identified and linked to the attack on the woman. The men were Tuesday expected in court where police planned to make a miscellaneous application to detain them as they investigate claims of sexual assault and robbery with violence. The incident happened on March 4 when a female motorist who was driving from Gigiri area to Parklands was involved in an accident with a boda boda rider at Barabara Tano junction. As she negotiated with the victim, a group of riders arrived and started to assault her, forcing her to drive away for her safety. The group pursued her for a short while before they blocked her way and continued to sexually molest her. She said she lost her mobile phone in the process. Traffic police on patrol rushed to the scene and saved her. They took her to Parklands police station where she was asked to leave and return for further statement after taking a rest. During the assault, one of the riders captured the drama, which went viral after being shared online. This prompted a barrage of outrage from citizens who condemned the incident, calling for action to tame the boda boda riders. Federation of Women Lawyers debriefed the victim on Monday as they planned a protest in the city to call for more action to tame the riders. The protesters presented a petition to the IG's office and sought reassurance of their protection from all forms of harassment. (edited by Amol Awuor)