Sauda Omar, the wife of Bakari Mwanyota Mbwana, who is still missing since he was abducted on February 23 last year, gave a moving testimony of the fateful day during a habeas corpus hearing in court in Friday. Omar said she was woken up by loud bangs on her door as she and her husband were sleeping at their house in Likoni’s Consolata area. “When I heard the door being broken, I woke my husband up. They broke the door and entered. It was around 1am,” Omar said. She said the intruders, dressed in military fatigue and armed to the teeth, identified themselves as police officers from Nairobi. “When they came in, they ejected my husband from the bedroom to the corridor, handcuffed his hands at the back, and made him lie on the floor face down,” recalled Omar. She was then taken to the children’s room, together with their children, where they interrogated her, seeking to know her relationship with Mwanyota. “They then took my phone and took a photo of me before going with it. They also took a photo of my national ID,” she said. The juice and fried potato seller told judge John Mativo the intruders then questioned why she was carrying a little baby at that time, when the baby was supposed to be asleep. “I told them the baby was shocked and had woken up from the noise of their breaking of the door,” Omar said. She said they ransacked her bedroom, turning things upside down before taking some files. They also did the same in the sitting room. “They said they were looking for certain things that they were told were in the house but they did not find them. They never said exactly what they were looking for,” Omar told the court. “They then told me they are going with my husband for interrogation then he will return. Those who entered the bedroom were about five. But there were others in the sitting room,” Omar said. They then told her to follow them to Nairobi if she wanted more information. She told them she had never been to Nairobi. The intruders then went away with Mwanyota, having confiscated both his and Omar’s phones. They then asked Omar’s young son to lock the door as they left. “When my son came back he said they had taken away his father,” Omar said. Later that morning, Omar reported the matter at Inuka and Likoni police stations. She recorded a statement at Inuka police station. However, police never visited the scene and they never got back to her. “I don’t know where my husband is to this date. I have tried calling him but his phone has been off since then. “I would like the court to help me know where my husband is. I am going through a lot of challenges. My children are still young,” Omar said. During cross examination by state prosecutor Kiti Nimwaka, Omar said she does not know from which unit the police officers came from as they never told her. “They only identified themselves as police from Nairobi,”  she said. Nimwaka said  when Omar reported the matter, she never said those who broke her door and ransacked the house were police officers, but that they wore jungle green uniforms. “So, which should we believe, the OB report or your statement in court?” posed Nimwaka. Nimwaka asked whether Omar knew of anything her husband does that might prompt police officers to seek him. “My husband, as I know him, is not involved in anything criminal. He is only involved in his butchery business,” Omar said. Omar said she has no phone after the one she had was taken by the abductors. “I now use my brother’s number. I did not renew my line.” Court heard that later, Muhuri informed her that there was a body that had been found stashed in a bag in Nairobi and that the family needed to go and check whether it was Mwanyota’s. “My brother-in-law went to Nairobi but it was not him,” Omar said. Muslims for Human Rights’ Ernest Cornel, who was the second witness, said he went to Omar’s house on February 25, two days later, where he interviewed Omar. “Her testimony would later result in a press conference which we held at least to agitate the abductors to release the abductees,” Cornel said. The Muhuri officer told the court he observed that the main gate of the house had been damaged, the sitting room and bedroom ransacked, with one of the sofa sets upside down. “The fridge was disarranged. In the bedroom, the clothes were strewn all over. The fan was damaged and the drawers were emptied. In my observation, this appeared to be a search mission, not a robbery mission,” Cornel told the court. He said the scene was consistent with several other similar scenes in cases of abductions. “Nothing valuable was stolen but only identification documents and communication gadgets were confiscated by the abductors,” Cornel said. During cross examination by Nimwaka, Cornel said they did not take the evidence they gathered from the scene to the DCI. “We have evidence that those involved in the abductions are police officers,” Cornel said. He said another similar case happened in Mtondia in Kilifi county in 2020, where an imam and two other people were abducted, communication gadgets confiscated together with vital identification documents, and police later confirmed that they had taken the three. Lawyer Mbugua Mureithi, who represents Muhuri and Omar, said he has one more witness. Judge Mativo said the next hearing will be on May 20. 