Mandera Governor Ali Roba has asked residents to go for Covid-19 booster shots to strengthen their immunity. The governor spoke on Thursday at the Mandera county headquarters after taking his shot. Roba, who had already taken the two AstraZeneca shots, said the booster shots are now available at all subcounty hospitals for free. The governor was accompanied by county secretary Abdi Noor Maalim, Health executive Mohamed Aden and speaker Adan Khalif. He said the booster shot offers extended protection from the virus. The governor, however, said one can only take the booster shot once he or she has taken the two shots. He said there is still a big population that is yet to take them. "We note with concern the public’s poor reception of the vaccination exercise. We wish to inform our people that globally the best way of fight Covid-19 infection is through mass vaccination,” Roba said. The governor said the risk of transmission of Covid-19 particularly to unvaccinated persons was still very high. As the country approaches elections, mass movement of people from one place to another and from urban to rural areas is expected. This he said might trigger high infection rates adding that the only thing that will help will be if one is vaccinated. The governor said the county is working closely with the national government due to it’s geographical position, bordering two countries. He said they have put in place stringent measures such as educating the public on the dangers of Covid-19, free testing, management of Covid patients at no cost, mass vaccination and booster shots. Roba said the Health department has already embarked on holding radio talk shows to educate the community on the importance of taking the jab. He said since they started them the response has been good with more residents availing themselves at vaccination centers. Last December, the Health department undertook a Rapid Results Initiative to boost vaccine uptake at the subcounty level. As a result measures were put in place to boost the jab uptake. All passengers coming in or going out of Mandera county were required to show proof of vaccination from February 9. Persons seeking services from government offices also need to show proof of vaccination. Institutions including colleges, prisons and secondary schools are all encouraged to vaccinate their resident population. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)