Indian pro Shubhankar Sharma was in imperious form on Day Two of the Magical Kenya Open as he stormed to the lead with a scintillating two-day total of 10 under-par 132. His magnificent rounds of 65 and 67 on both days saw him race ahead for the title with a one-stroke lead ahead of Japanese Masahiro Kawamura and Scottish pro Ewen Ferguson, who are both on nine under. Thriston Lawrence of South Africa is lying fourth on 7under. Kenya’s Njoroge Kibugu is tied for fifth on 6 under with Svensson Jesper of Sweden, Angel Hidalgo of Spain, South African Dean Burmester, German Hurly Long and Jayden Schaper of South Africa. Sharma said after his round: “I’m really happy. Whenever you finish with two birdies you’re always happy. It was a good round for me today. It was quite a slow start starting on the back nine. Not much was happening but that eagle on the 18th really propelled me. The front nine was great, missed birdie opportunities on both the par fives but came back strong on eight and nine with birdies and I’m really pleased with thescore.” Kawamura ( 67-66) exuded confidence heading into Saturday’s round, saying: “I’m happy. This was a good round and a very nice finish. I missed some iron shots but my chipping and putting were very good today.” “A bogey free is great for me. It’s just Friday and I need to just keep going and, hopefully, I can keep playing this way at the weekend.” Ewen Ferguson (66-67, 133 (-9) said: “I’m really happy. After getting Covid-19 a couple sometimes back and not feeling my best out on the course, I went home and practised, did some work with my coach, did some work in the gym and went to Dubai for a few days earlyand worked on my swing. It has felt good the last few days and so I’m happy with where I’m at.” DAY TWO LEADERBOARD 1 SHARMA, Shubhankar (India)-10 T2 KAWAMURA, Masahiro (Japan)-9 T2 FERGUSON, Ewen (Scotland)-9 4 LAWRENCE, Thriston (RSA) -7 T5 SVENSSON, Jesper (SWE) -6 T5 KIBUGU, Njoroge (AM-KEN) -6 T5 HIDALGO, Angel (ESP)-6 T5 BURMESTER, Dean (RSA) -6 T5 LONG, Hurly (GER) -6 10S SCHAPER, Jayden (RSA) -5