Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya says the latest string of draws registered by the team is likely to compromise their chances of laying claim to their dream maiden Kenyan Premier League title this season. Muluya spoke after his charges squandered a glorious opportunity to close in on leaders Kakamega Homeboyz following their one-all draw against Mathare at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The gaffer lashed out at his players for collapsing in the crucial final five minutes of the encounter to concede the costly goal. “We have dropped enough points and it is now upon us to ensure that we collect maximum points from our remaining encounters,” said Muluya. “Conceding again in the last minute as we did against Wazito is something to sort out with the team. We've been leading in our matches only to concede in the last five minutes and that's not encouraging at all,” he said. “But again you know it all starts with the person in charge and I'm the one in charge and therefore it is now upon me to find ways of helping the team,” said Muluya. “Again it boils down to concentration lapse. Why should we concede when the referee is about to blow the final whistle?” “It's very sad losing points when our title rivals Kakamega Homeboyz are busy winning all their matches. That makes it difficult for us to stay in contention. “We have another challenge in Tusker who have shown all intentions of defending their title in recent matches. You saw how they played so well against Wazito on Tuesday,” said Muluya. Mathare United head coach John Kamau believes his charges are on the right track judging by Wednesday's outcome. “We had some good moments in the first half. It's a good starting point considering the situation we are in right now,” said Kamau. “The most important thing is now to focus on consistency because we have about 13 matches to go and we can avoid relegation if we work towards it. “I don't want to demand a lot from the players but I require them to display a great character, which they gave me today,” said Kamau. The gaffer who joined the Slum Boys from rivals Wazito reiterated his desire to salvage the struggling side from the jaws of relegation. “I have a very short-term agreement with Mathare and the most important thing I would want to see is the team playing in the top tier in the next season,” said Kamau. The outcome has left Sharks sixth on the log with 32 points while Mathare remain at the very bottom of the table with 10 points. Leaders Kakamega Homeboyz kept their title hopes alive with a narrow 1-0 win over Vihiga Bullets at Bukhungu Stadium. Coastal side Bandari beat debutants Talanta 2-0 while Gor Mahia and Sofapaka settled for a one-all draw at Wundanyi Stadium. The match between AFC Leopards and Ulinzi Stars aborted after the latter failed to provide an ambulance as required of the home team.