Kisii UDA governor hopeful Ezekiel Machogu has picked lawyer Migos Ogamba as his running mate. Migos ran for Kitutu Chache North parliamentary seat in the last election. John Momanyi, who was initially picked by Machogu, has since been seconded to Deputy President William Ruto’s campaign secretariat. Machogu, who is also the Nyaribari Masaba MP, said he would be scouting for a senator aspirant in the coming weeks. Others in the governor’s race include Chris Obure, Simba Arati, Sam Ongeri, Manson Oyongo, Omingo Magara, Charles Matoke and Joash Maangi. Also in the race is Nyangweso Akunga. Woman Representative Janet Ong’era has since bowed out of the race. She said she will instead defend her seat. On Monday, Machogu and Migos led a rally in Nyaigwa, Marani, which is Governor James Ongwae’s backyard. They promised residents robust development for the county if they are elected in August. Machogu said he would too build on the successes of Ongwae and initiate more projects for residents. “I know my brother Governor Ongwae has started various projects here. He has done some roads and even set up a good hospital for you. Mine will be ensuring that such hospitals have more personnel and drugs when you will vote me into office,” he said. Machogu will be banking on his vast experience in public service when he served as a provincial administrator and later as a parliamentarian. The MP emerged among the top five legislators in the effective utilisation of constituency funds. Machogu said he will set up a special ward fund to help MCAs initiate development projects at the grassroots. “We want our people to have a better feel of devolution by ensuring more resources trickle to where they are. This forms part of the larger party manifesto,” the MP said. Migos urged the electorate to maintain peace as the country inches closer to the general election. He said the bottom-up economic model holds the key to leveraging the poor and giving them hope in life. “We must examine this model, not on the jokes being bandied around but on the solid premise that it provides solutions to the quest by mwananchi to have a better life,” he said. Machogu told supporters to overwhelmingly vote for UDA candidates during the polls. He said they are optimistic Ruto will win against his main rival Raila Odinga. Edited by A.N