Businessman Jimi Wanjigi presented himself at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters on Tuesday in the ongoing probe into how he possesses 11 assorted guns. Wanjigi was driven into the DCI headquarters in his customized Mercedes’ Benz after detectives there said their deadline for him to surrender the weapons had lapsed. Wanjigi went to Special Crimes Unit offices where he was waiting for directions from the police. He was grilled for hours and was still there with a lawyer by 6.10 pm. Wanjigi added that he had honoured the summons by the DCI over the guns issue. The officers had planned to forward the probe file to the Office of Director of Public Prosecution with various recommendations including charging him with possessing the guns without a permit. Wanjigi had been given a 72-hour ultimatum by the DCI to surrender his 11 firearms and 485 rounds of ammunition. Wanjigi had initially said he would not yield the demands claiming that he was a pawn in a grand scheme trying to force him to give up his Presidential aspirations. The politician cum businessman said the plot was a move by the police to violate his rights and freedom. “The DCI ordered me to surrender non-existent guns and 480 bullets. They have been violating my fundamental rights and freedom. I will neither surrender to this abuse of law enforcement agencies for political purposes," he stated during a presser held last week. "The High Court granted orders that the firearms be returned to my house but that never happened. Today, he (DCI Kinoti) dares to ask me to return the same firearms." "In 2017, the same Kinoti took three vehicles from my home in Malindi and for five years, the high-end vehicles have been rotting in police custody. He also tried to issue charges against me and my father," he stated. The DCI had initially claimed that Wanjigi had taken possession of the firearms secretly as they sought the politician to surrender the guns. Wanjigi is accused of having a CQ, 2 Ceskas, a pistol, shotgun, Glock 19, Ceska, 2 Glocks, rifle and a Gilboa. He was asked to explain the source of a Glock under the serial number URT 735. "A criminal investigation has established that you hold 10 firearms of different makes and descriptions which act of possession is in contravention of the law," the DCI said. The DCI added Wanjigi had no certificate that authorised him to have such weapons. "The illegal holding of Firearms and such massive amount of ammunition particularly at this time of heightened political activity could be used to commit a myriad of offences including but not limited to maiming and or killing of innocent persons or opponents.” "The Directorate must detect, deter, disrupt and investigate, any intelligence or information either on a complaint or of its own volition," added an earlier statement. The statement said Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i gave a moratorium for mandatory vetting of Civilian Firearms Holders in December 2018 "Since then, there has been no indication or evidence of you having attended the said Mandatory Vetting as required by the Cabinet Secretary," said the statement. "Further on the 26th November 2021, the Firearm Licensing Board required you to appear before it for vetting which requirement you have refused and or failed to heed." Officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations encountered an illegally-armed person within Kwacha Group of Companies when they had raided the property to investigate a land matter. "The said person disclosed that you had armed him as your bodyguard. It was later established that the person is an ex-GSU officer previously attached to the elite recce company.” The establishment of the fact that the officer is an ex-GSU is an indication of a high-level scheme that you have congregated highly trained persons in the use of firearms for ulterior motives. "That is why the cops are now on the businessman.