Muslim leaders have called on political leaders to tone down on political rhetoric that may ignite division amongst Kenyans ahead of the August 9 polls. The leaders under the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (SUPKEM) said politicians should weigh their words before making utterances that can cause panic and despondency among voters. Led by National Chairman Al-Hajj Hassan ole Naado, they called on state agencies like the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC, National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC, Office of Director of Public Prosecution (ODPP) and the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) to take firm and appropriate action against hate speech perpetrators. “We call upon the President as the head of state and symbol of national unity to ensure that the country remains united and ensure peaceful transition,” Naado said. While expressing concern over heightened political tensions in the country and rising cases of hate speech, Naado said this could lead to far reaching consequences on the peace, stability and progress of the country and its people if not checked. Naado made the remarks during a press conference on the SUPKEM State of the Nation and emerging issues pertaining to the 2022 general election at a Nairobi Hotel on Sunday, March 6. The chairman was flanked by council acting secretary general Sheikh Abdulahi Salat Omar, NAMLEF chairman Sheikh Abdillahi Abdi, SUPKEM Regional coordinators Alhajj Ali Golich(Nairobi) and Sheikh Kamis Juma Mwaguzo(Coast). Others were Sheikh Juma Musa Asman (Nyanza), Haji Abdi Wafula Swaleh (Western), Haji Jumbe Ekadel (Rift-Valley) and Sheikh Dr. Adan Yunis (North Eastern). Naado urged the IEBC to go an extra mile and inspire confidence in Kenyans, political actors and the global community that it has the capacity, profile and intention of conducting free, fair, transparent and credible election. He asked religious leaders from all faiths and denominations to use their platforms to guide their faithful to remain peaceful before, during and after the election. The council boss called on the youth to reject attempts by the political class to instigate acts of violence and other mischief against their brothers and sisters. “The youth of this country should step up in determining their future by registering as voters and vying for political positions,” Naado remarked. He said that in the coming weeks, they shall make a declaration guiding the Muslim community on the way forward and candidates they will support in the polls. Edited by R Wanjala