Debra Ajwang, a lawyer for 16 years, has promised to restore the Law Society of Kenya's lost glory if elected vice president. Ajwang also promised to prioritise good corporate governance, instituting accountability and quality service to members. The elections will take place next week Thursday. “It's time we took back the profession to where it was, where the LSK president spoke and everyone listened. We have lost that respect in society,” Ajwang told the Star. She said LSK can only champion the protection of the rule of law if the society practices the rule of law. “Charity begins at home, we must be properly governed and have leaders who must be accountable to the members,” the lawyer said. “Let us elect leaders who are dependable, and have a track record in leadership and champions of good governance.” The last LSK council was rocked by wrangles between Nelson Havi and chief executive officer Mercy Wambua. The power fight at the society started in mid-2020 shortly after Havi and his council was elected in February of that year. Havi was ousted by the society’s regional branches after he failed to comply with a court order. Ajwang is contesting against Boniface Akusala, David Nyamweya, and Faith Aoko Odhiambo. The lawyer said she is the best to take over because of her diverse experience in the legal profession. She started as a litigation lawyer, focused on conveyancing,  commercial law and went into civil society and worked for Kenya Human Rights Commission and The Cradle. Ajwang has worked for Barclays Bank, Family Bank, KCB bank,  Cooperative bank and is currently the head Of legal and company secretary at UBA bank. “I am experienced. I have practised in very different spheres of the legal profession. Therefore, I have a birds-eye view of different areas of practice,” she said. “Due to my experience in corporate governance, I am well versed with  accountability, transparency, fairness which we all now are all important at the LSK level and the national level.” Ajwang also served as Rotary Club President and was later elevated to be assistant governor where she managed five clubs. She says she is passionate about member services, coming from a service industry and would go to every length to protect members' interests. “Even as a company secretary, I handle customer queries because people call me when they are frustrated. At that point, I am a customer service agent,” Ajwang said. As she goes on with her vote hunt across the country, Ajwang has not faced any gender hostility. “LSK is very progressive and supports women leaders. The last council had the majority of women. We are very progressive and setting that pace,” she said. The elections come at a time when the country is also preparing for general elections. Ajwang is optimistic, that national politics will not interfere with the choice of leaders. “I have observed we are very careful because we play a very critical role in the society, alignment is not the way to go so we need to be independent,” she said. She pledged to uplift and give young lawyers a voice in the running of society. LSK elections board cleared five people to seek the chairperson position. They are Nairobi chairman George Theuri, Omwanza Ombati, Bernhard Kipkoech, Caroline Kamende and Matthew Nyabena. Edited by Kiilu Damaris