By the time it is over, assuming it ever ends, this Covid-19 pandemic will have been blamed for a vast array of things, from poor economic performance to marriage break-ups and everything in between. Unless you’ve been in a vegetative state since March 2020, you’ll know about the havoc the pandemic wrought upon economies around the world. While it is true that much of the world was already facing rising poverty, inequality and unemployment, as well as other economic ills, Covid-19 just accelerated the process and in some cases provided a convenient excuse. As for marriages and long-term relationships, there has been a slew of stories about erstwhile happy couples splitting up and divorcing. Some blamed the stresses and strains of the pandemic for their break-ups, while others said the close confinement of lockdown forced them to reexamine the whole business of those “for richer or for poorer, in good times and bad” vows. I recall a BBC article some time in 2020 that reported a survey by what used to be the UK's National Marriage Guidance Council, now known as Relate. The survey found that nearly a quarter of people felt lockdown had placed additional pressure on their relationship. A similar proportion had found their partner more irritating, with women reporting so more than men. The one thing I will blame the pandemic on is having lost the ability to consume copious amounts of alcohol without succumbing to its effects almost immediately. In plain English, I can no longer hold my drink. For most of my adult life, one of my most proudly held achievements was being the last one standing after a heavy night out, and being among the first to be up and functional the next day, whether I was hungover or not. I was so proud of this that over a particular five-year period in my late 20s and early 30s, I thought I had become immune to hangovers. This was because despite going drinking nearly every night of my life at that time, I never once suffered from the awful headache and general exhaustion of a hangover. I realised some time later that it was not immunity but a change in lifestyle. During those hangover-less years, I had been working at a job where I reported to work at 3pm and left at 11pm, and proceeded straight to the bar or the club, getting regularly home at about 3am, and then I would sleep until about noon. Effectively, this nine hours of sleep followed by a hearty breakfast and a brisk walk to the bus stop took care of any hangover I might have otherwise suffered. When I eventually returned to a normal routine and suffered my first hangover in five years, I was so out of practice I was convinced I was at death’s door. Before the pandemic, I could drink with the best of them and while the hangovers seemed worse than they did in my 20s and 30s, they were not so terrible and tended to occur the morning after the night before. The pandemic killed most nightlife in Cape Town, and as I was never the type to enjoy drinking at home, I suppose my alcohol intake shrunk to almost nothing. Of course I had the odd couple of beers or a glass of gin or whisky here and there, but not a regular night out at the pub as has been my habit for most of my adult life. So the other night when I went out for a drink with an old friend from my Nairobi drinking era and found that I had the beginnings of a headache after my second glass of red wine, I knew the time had come to admit defeat and bow out gracefully. I’m not saying I will never drink again as that would be a lie, just that I can no longer drink with the same gusto as I once did, and for that I blame the pandemic.