Double Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge says everything went according to plan at Sunday's Tokyo Marathon where he timed 2:02:40 to set the fourth fastest marathon time on his way to victory. The world record holder led a 1-2 Kenyan finish in his first race since a second Olympic gold at Sapporo, Japan in August as world marathon bronze medallist, Amos Kipruto, finished second in 2:03:13. Ethiopian Tamirat Tola clocked 2:04:14 to finish third in the World Marathon Majors race. "I am so proud to win in the streets of Tokyo where the people have running in their hearts and minds. After winning my second Olympic gold medal in Japan last summer, I returned to Tokyo to run a strong race," Kipchoge said. The four-time London Marathon champion added: "And this is what I meant with a strong race...2:02 victory and a new course record. I am proud to have won four out of the six Abbott World Marathon Major races." On a sunny morning, the three-time Berlin Marathon champion took control of the race from the onset, leading a pack of eight runners, which included compatriot Kipruto. As the men were separated from the boys, it became increasingly apparent that the race was going to be a Kenyan affair as Kipruto joined Kipchoge in pulling away from the leading pack. Even as he was running and fixing his eyes upon the finish line, it seemed as if Kipchoge's mind was occupied by other issues — chiefly, the Russian invasion of Ukraine. "Finally, I want this world to unite. If there are any differences, I want us to meet and speak, not fight. My win today is to bring positivity in this world," he said. The 2014 Chicago Marathon champion now needs to win in New York and Boston marathons to cement his place in history as the only winner of the six World Marathon Majors road races. There was more cause for celebration after the women's world record holder, Brigid Kosgei, timed 2:16:02 to clinch the title ahead of the Ethiopian duo of Ashete Bekere (2:17:58) and Gotytom Gebreselase (2:18:18). Her time is the fastest ever by a female marathoner on Japanese soil. The Olympic marathon silver medalist, however, believes she could have achieved much more. "It was a very exciting race. I’m happy to have won and broken the course record. If it wasn’t for the headwind at around 32km, I think I could have broken 2:15. I hope to come back next year," Kosgei said. Amsterdam Marathon champion Angela Tanui finished fourth in 2:18:42.