Menengai Oilers head coach Gibson Weru said tactical tweaks and courage were the key factors as his charges stunned champions KCB on Saturday to romp to their first-ever Kenya Cup final. The Nakuru-based outfit beat KCB 24-17 to set up a mouthwatering final against Kabras after the sugar millers made light work of Strathmore Leos (29-9) in the other semifinal in Kakamega. Oilers, who were formed in 2016, will make the short trip to Kakamega to face the sugar millers on Saturday. A delighted Weru said they had done five-week of analysis on KCB following their narrow 23-19 loss last month. "We sat down and looked at their strengths and weaknesses and so we nullified their strengths which are in the forwards. We also zoned out their attack areas. KCB are a team who like to play on a fast tempo but we were able to counter that in the semi,” said Weru. Weru's charges also adapted better to the Referee Constant Cap's interpretation of the breakdown and punished the bankers' indiscipline in that facet of play with Geoffrey Ominde slotting home eight penalties. The former Kenya Sevens playmaker said being the underdogs helped his side in the encounter. “Coming to the game as the underdogs also helped us. I told my players to keep the game close from the first whistle. We did not allow KCB to get into a rhythm and that helped us,” added Weru. Weru was without key players Samson Onsomu, Tyson Maina, Timothy Okwemba and Dalmas Chituyi due to injuries. "They will be assessed this week to see if they can train and hopefully be available for selection. KCB scored their tries through internationals Darwin Mukidza and Vincent Onyala with Mukidza adding two conversions and a penalty. Oilers led 12-7 at the break. In Kakamega, Barry Robinson, stand-in skipper Teddy Akala, Jone Kubu and Brian Tanga scored a try each for the sugar millers with flyhalf Ntabeni Dukisa adding three conversions. Strathmore's points came via the boot of Andrew Matoka (three penalties). Kabras led 14-6  at the interval. This will be Kabras' seventh consecutive Kenya Cup final since gaining promotion to the top flight in 2014.