A couple that spends too much time together at home can get the dating experience very monotonous and boring. However, there are plenty of things you and your partner can do to make things spicy and grow that interest, at the comfort of your home. You will find that engaging in some cool and fun activities with your partner adds a little bit of charm to your relationship. Work out together Exercising can be a good time to bond while helping each other stay fit. From home, you can join workout or yoga classes for couples online, participate in marathons together or you can choose to go for a morning or evening walk together after a long day. Try new recipes Not only will this help you save an extra coin you could have spent on expensive dinners, but also it will let you experiment a way of preparing new dishes together which can also help you bond and get very good recipes. You can look up unique recipes online and try them out. Play board and video games Board games and video games are the in thing at the moment. From monopoly, UNO, poker or FIFA, a partner who is experienced can give tips and tricks on the game and you get to practice together. Playing with kids is also another option that can help you bond with your kids and partner. Depending on your preference, this can also be a way to rekindle some childhood memories or try something new. Decorate your house or try DIY projects together From changing the position of things in the house be it your living room, kitchen, or bedroom, will be great. Organizing should be fun and it should help you manage your stress, be open to ideas and take it easy. Add things that make you happy and help you relax. Choosing to order in or cook together and have a picnic in your living room, balcony, or garden is a great idea to keep the fun alive in your relationship. You can put some slow romantic music, lay down comfy blankets and pillows, and enjoy each other’s company. Do some skin care and enjoy a self-care day You can plan a spa night where both of you can give each other massages and do some face masks on each other. This shared experience encourages intimacy and affection and leads to a stronger, closer bond. Use this time to chat with each other and relax especially on weekends. Enjoy some homemade cocktail and painting You can enjoy your evenings experimenting with new cocktail recipes you find online. You can get some canvas and paint from a bookshop or a paint shop and sip some wine or cocktail as you paint. All in all, for a stronger bond and happy relationship it is the effort that counts for you to make your time at home more fun.