Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja will be resigning from the Jubilee Party as he seeks a new ticket ahead of party nominations. However, he still is contemplating on whether he will join the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party or Amani National Congress ( ANC). “Definitely I have to resign from Jubilee Party because my vision for Nairobi and for the future of the county does not go in hand with the party,"Sakaja stated. Speaking to Star, Sakaja who is seeking to run for the Nairobi gubernatorial seat said what is important, regardless of which party he will choose is that it will be under the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. “I will make my decision before nominations on whether I will join UDA or ANC to seek the party ticket but most importantly I will be under the Kenya Kwanza alliance,” he added. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has already gazetted election timelines with political parties expected to conduct their nominations, resolve intra-party disputes and submit names of candidates after party primaries by May 26. Since last year, the Senator shifted his political allegiance from the Jubilee Party to supporting ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi. In January this year, while Mudavadi launched his presidential bid at Bomas of Kenya, Sakaja said his support for Mudavadi remains unwavering and he will follow him to any alliance he joins. ANC later joined Kenya Kwanza Alliance and has been moving with DP William Ruto’s UDA campaigning across the country. Key parties under Kenya Kwanza Alliance include Ford Kenya, UDA and ANC. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s Chama Cha Kazi Party is in talks with Kenya Kwanza Alliance, with an aim of coming up with a coalition. Sakaja has insisted that he is firmly in the race to become Nairobi’s fourth Governor. He explained that his campaign strategy involves meeting residents of Nairobi on the ground and listening to the changes they recommend. “My team and I have been on the ground listening to voters as well as sharing my ideas to them. Nairobi is in dire need of change and I will bring it once elected.” The Senator said both former governors failed but he promises to succeed in making Nairobi a much stronger and vibrant city. As part of his manifesto, Sakaja says he will develop a feasible Metropolitan Transit Plan, which is not piecemeal; and a development master plan that is coherent. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta has always had goodwill for Nairobi county but the former Governor (Sonko) squandered everything “Kidero could have done better but he was in the opposition and against the government of the day. But Sonko had everything but ran Nairobi as a one man show,” Sakaja added.