AN MP has supported the appeal by Deputy President William Ruto to the international community to monitor Kenya during this year’s general election. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said Saturday there should be the stoppage of the use of public resources by the government to campaign for its preferred candidates. Gachagua said rigging is not essentially the stealing of the ballots on the voting day but it involves the whole process of elections. The lawmaker said the UDA party will employ agents across the country to protect the party’s votes and ensure rigging on the polling day does not happen. He said voter bribery and the use of the criminal justice system to intimidate some leaders from other political parties supporting deputy president is also part of electoral malpractices. “We have seen the use of the police to refuse people to do campaigns. That is also part of rigging,” he said. Ruto called on the international community to demand a democratic election from the government. In a bilateral meeting meant to discuss US- Kenya relationship, Ruto called on the US and other countries that are friendly to Kenya to support Kenya’s democratisation and ensure there is a free, fair and credible election. Ruto is accompanied by ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi among other Kenya Kwanza alliance members. The US assistant secretary of State for Africa Molly Phee assured the DP that the US will help Kenya by safeguarding democracy and advocating for a free and fair election. Gachagua spoke when he issued Uwezo fund cheques worth Sh7.2 million to 52 women groups from Mathira. The event was held at PEFA Church in Karatina town. The fund’s chairman Barnabas Kinyua said vetting to ascertain whether applicants qualify for the fund has seen them pick only the genuine groups that can refund the money. He said the repayment of the revolving funds is at 82 per cent, adding that Mathira is leading in the repayment of the money in the county. The beneficiaries he said, are given a grace period of six months before they start refunding the money. Jane Wanjiku, a member of Maria Solar Women group with about 40 members involved in table banking and agribusiness, said proper management of the money has enabled them to service their loan promptly and with ease. The group received Sh300,000. Helen Wanjiru of Karindundu dairy farmers group said the money has greatly helped uplift their living standards. “Many people were undergoing financial constraints but the money has helped them to improve their livelihoods by engaging in agribusiness activities,” she said.  