Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has expanded the feeding programme for KCPE candidates to all the six constituencies of Mombasa. The lunch plan, which was launched 13 years ago, has only been implemented in schools within Mvita constituency. However, this year the programme was expanded to cover the remaining constituencies of Nyali, Jomvu, Likoni, Kisauni and Changamwe. All the 21,515 candidates sitting the KCPE examination in 380 private and public schools across the county benefitted from the programme sponsored by the Shariff Nassir Foundation. Before the lunch programme, Nassir sent success cards, diaries and revision material and books to candidates across public schools in Mombasa. Nassir said the lunch is meant to ensure candidates remain in school during the three-day period of examinations. “Parents and teachers should not be worried that their children might miss examinations or arrive late for a paper because of going home for lunch. They all get lunch within the school as they wait for the next paper,” Nassir said. The MP said he has been partnering with the Education ministry for the past 13 years and his foundation is the only one in the county that is allowed to distribute food to pupils. “The programme is not new, this is something that I have been doing even before I became an MP, now we have rolled it out to the entire county,” Nassir said. The MP said he had received requests from a number of schools across the county expressing interest in the feeding programme. The package includes an egg, buns, a banana or apple, packet of milk and water. “It is a balanced diet which has been certified by nutritionists. It keeps the candidates fit for the entire exam period and they do not doze off. We are not going to provide anything to children that will give them any form of food poisoning,” Nassir said. He said no money from the Mvita NG-CDF kitty was spent in the programme. “No public funds were used in this initiative. All the expenses, from payment of volunteers to the food items, transportation and logistics have been covered by the foundation,” he said. The MP added that they are already in talks with the Ministry of Education to provide lunch packages to secondary school students expected to sit for their national exams beginning next week. He said though KCSE exam candidates sit for a single paper daily during morning hours, having an extra hour or two in school will go a long way in increasing their competitiveness in the national exams. “We are trying to convince parents if they have no problem with their sons and daughters staying in school a little longer after their paper, they will get a bit of counselling, get prepped for the next day’s paper before leaving,” he said. Raphael Kitema, a teacher in Mnazi Mmoja in Nyali, said the lunch idea is good for the candidates. “Time which would have been wasted to look for lunch has now been saved. The candidates have ample time to read as they wait for the next paper,” he said. Students interviewed across the county also lauded the lunch programme   -Edited by SKanyara