A primary school in Narok county is on the spot after nine boys were allegedly sodomised by a man well-known to them. The pupils from Ntulele Primary School in Narok East subcounty, aged between the 8 and 13, were allegedly lured with Sh20 by the suspect. The suspect is on the run. The incident has caused a public uproar forcing government officials to visit the school. Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Linah Jebii Kilimo visited the school on Thursday. She was accompanied by Narok East MP Ken Aramat and Narok Woman Rep aspirant Rebecca Tonkei. Jebii urged the police to conduct a speedy probe on the cases and bring the culprits to book. She said government has launched Policare, a programme that will deal with sexual and Gender Based Violence cases. Jebii called for concerted efforts on the protection of the boy child following an increase in cases of sodomy. She added that the boy child has been suffering in silence because the society demands more from him. She asked the residents to call the hotline number 1195 to get help from the government instead of suffering in silence. Irene Wanaina, a phycologist and recovery coach for mental health, said  the minors opened up and more needs to be done to help speed their recovery. “The boys were affected socially and academically, so they need a lot of therapy to help them recover from the trauma,” she said. Leshan Kereto, an activist said his organisation has been running an online campaign to advocate for the protection of boy child. He said they have spoken to the boys and taught them how to defend themselves when such incidents happen. Kereto said the boys have been taken through drug abuse programmes where they are sensitised on the dangers drugs. Robert Olowi, regional NACADA coordinator said most of the boys abused are drugged before they are sodomised. He said his organisation has launched programmes to teach the young children the dangers of engaging in substance abuse and  how to protect themselves. “We also do counselling sessions to the affected children so as they can live a normal life,”Olowi said. Olowi called on parents to take keen interest in their children during the holiday  period because some might be initiated into substance abuse. (Edited by Tabnacha O)