Police in Garissa have arrested two suspected militants with three AK-47s, 98 bullets and five magazines. The arrest on Wednesday night was part of a sting operation conducted in Modika, in the outskirts of Garissa town. Garissa county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said the two will be arraigned the following day, once investigations are complete. Speaking to the press on Thursday outside his office, the commissioner thanked residents for their cooperation which helped nab the criminals. He said the government will not relent in its efforts to rid off illegal gangs marauding with firearms. Cherutich said there have been several incidents in the past where suspected militants and terrorists have left people injured or dead. He said the most affected areas are Burburis, Tawfiq and Bula Iftin where people fight over land. “I want to assure residents that we will not compromise on matters security. Anyone hell bent on causing havoc will be dealt with in accordance with the law,” Cherutich said. The commissioner said the security organs will continue with the same operations, adding that residents should also continue cooperating. "Report any persons suspected to have illegal weapons so that they can be arrested,” he said. Cherutich who was accompanied by other top security officers further ordered the suspension of any development activities in disputed lands within Garissa. He said the developments are the genesis of conflicts. “I want to issue firm instruction that the status quo remains in the disputed lands until the committee that was formed comes up with a detailed report,” he said. The commissioner said the report will help in coming up with solutions that will solve the perennial land conflicts once and for all. Cherutich said residents who are still in possession of illegal firearms should voluntarily surrender them to the authorities. “When they surrender them voluntarily then no action will be taken against them. However, when they wait for the government to come for them, then that is a totally different story. They will be deemed as criminals and will be treated as such,” he said. The arrest comes two months after police in Garissa arrested three suspected militants with four firearms including three AK-47s and 203 bullets in Bula Iftin. MPs Mohamed Dahiye (Dadaab) and Sofia Abdi (Ijara) said the county administrators should work hard to recover illegal firearms in the hands of civilians as the country readies for election. The MPs said illegal weapons were being used by militants in livestock rustling and to force residents from their lands. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)