Controversial man of God Pastor James Ng'ang'a says women are hitting on him despite him being married. The 69-year-old man of God told Word Is money is the reason most of them are camping in his DM. "I get women sending me messages, they do not care about age. All they want is the money," he said. "They flirt with me, saying how smart and handsome I am. As a public figure, you will always get hit on." Ng'ang'a lost his first wife years ago after she succumbed to illness. He is currently married to Mercy Murugi, who is in her late 30s. During the interview, Ng'ang'a said he has countless children, something he is never ashamed to speak about. "I started getting children at a very young age. Women are not so good. We don't know how many they are," he said. Asked to approximate, Ng'ang'a said he was not in court. "The mother of this lady getting married today told me she had gone to get her clothes but never came back. She left me while pregnant with twins," he said. "When I got saved, I decided to go and look for her but she had someone else, so she told me we had not officially gotten married. "But she passed on at some point. It is after she died that the kids looked for me. That is why I adopted her (daughter) since 2000." He said most couples nowadays don't last since they are not original. "Women get married to someone because of their financial stability and when the money is no longer there, they break up since it was not genuine love." Ng'ang'a urged couples to stay away from each other's mobile phones. "Those who wanted you before you got married will continue even though you are married. They will keep on sending you messages," he said. "They are house breakers and they will not stop texting you." He said phones are one of the many reasons lovers kill each other. The pastor said he does not want to be remembered as a preacher but one who left a place where people can worship at. Ng'ang'a has built a huge city-like place in Kajiado for himself and his worshipers, where they can go for prayer and be prayed for. He branded it Jerusalem City.