Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga on Tuesday dared Deputy President William Ruto to resign if he feels dissatisfied with the government. Speaking during an Azimio La Umoja rally in Maralal, Samburu, the leaders said Ruto should not be allowed to dent the image of the same government that pays his bills before the international community. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya fired the first salvo at the DP, accusing him of engaging in bad manners during his tours of the US and UK. Ruto used  his 10-day trip to hit at President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee administration and at Raila. Last week, Ruto told an American audience that Sh100 billion is being lost yearly through “budgeted corruption”. The second in command also took a jibe at Uhuru’s administration, saying the government has been losing billions of shillings in opaque institutions. “Where you have accountability problems and oversight challenges, the more money you put in opaque institutions, the greater the corruption in there,” Ruto said. He also talked of a plan to rig him out in the August 9 presidential contest. Oparanya said Ruto’s 'outbursts' are both unpatriotic and misleading, daring him to quit government if he is dissatisfied with the administration. “The Deputy President went abroad and immediately started insulting the government that has facilitated him to US and UK,” Oparanya said. “If I were him, I would resign as DP so that I start criticising the President who has facilitated his travels. Kenyans should be patriotic,” he said. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said Ruto has made history as the first sitting deputy president to visit a foreign country and start criticising his country. He termed the comments direct disrespect to the President and a sign of someone who has panicked ahead of the elections. The Kieni MP further threatened to sponsor an impeachment motion against the DP for alleged gross misconduct. “We want to tell you that we can invoke Article 150 against you,” Kanini said. Article 150 provides grounds for the removal of Deputy President from office. They include: gross misconduct, mental incapacity to perform functions of the office, gross violation of the Constitution and serious reasons to believe that the Deputy President has committed a crime under national or international law. Kanini told Ruto to stop denting the country’s reputation in foreign nations and instead should come back and sell his agenda to Kenyans. Former Trade minister Mukhisa Mutuyi told Raila to undo the damage done by the DP when he (Raila) visits UK next week. Raila is schedule to travel to UK for a five-day visit beginning March 14, days after he is crowned Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate on Saturday. “I know you are travelling to UK, please represent Kenya. Tell them that Kenya we have some funny people, but we [also] have serious leaders,” the former UNCTAD secretary general said. The leaders were speaking during Azimio rally in Maralal, Samburu county attended by Raila. The former Prime Minister on his part laughed off reports by Ruto to set up a parallel tallying centre. “Now he (Ruto) is saying that he will have a parallel tallying centre. For us we don’t care, we are marching on,” Raila said. The ODM boss said his government will address the challenges of infrastructure, water and famine that have been part of Samburu history over the years. (edited by Amol Awuor)