A Kenyan drugs maker has been authorised to make the world’s first oral Covid-19 tablets. The Universal Corporation Limited, a World Health Organisation prequalified drugs maker, will manufacture the tablets at their factory near Kikuyu town. Universal is owned by India’s Strides Pharma Science and it also manufactures ARVs for export in Kikuyu. The company is among the 27 generic manufacturers selected to produce the oral Covid-19 antiviral medication molnupiravir and supply it to 105 poor countries. Molnupiravir is the first oral medicine in the world to be approved for use against Covid-19. The agreement was made by the patent holder Merck of the USA, and the Medicines Patent Pool, a UN-backed body that works to lower the prices of medicines in poor countries. MPP then selected 27 generic manufacturers in Kenya, Bangladesh, China, Egypt/Jordan, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, South Africa, South Korea and Vietnam. “The companies that were offered the sub-licence successfully demonstrated their ability to meet MPP’s requirements related to production capacity, regulatory compliance, and the ability to meet international standards for quality-assured medicines,” MPP said in a statement. Molnupiravir is an antiviral that was originally developed to treat the flu. It is an oral drug that can be taken at home to treat mild Covid-19. It works by stopping coronavirus from growing and spreading and is taken as early as possible after infection, to prevent more severe symptoms from developing. Molnupiravir is not authorised for use in patients younger than 18 years of age because it may affect bone and cartilage growth. It is administered as four 200 milligram capsules taken orally every 12 hours for five days, for a total of 40 capsules. MPP said five companies will focus on producing the raw ingredients, 13 will produce both raw ingredient and the finished drug and nine companies will produce the finished drug. Owners of the Kenyan factory said they are among those who will produce the final product. “We are pleased to partner with MPP for providing global accessibility of the generic molnupiravir both from India and Kenya,” Dr R Ananthanarayanan, head of Strides Pharma Science Limited, said in a statement. He added, “While our 200mg strength has been launched in India under our brand Stripiravir, this partnership will enable us to commercialise the 400mg dose along with 200mg dose for global markets, extending considerable patient benefits with higher compliance and better administration.” Founded in 2010, the Geneva-based Medicines Patent Pool negotiates with patent holders to allow the manufacture of generics in poor countries. To date, MPP has signed agreements with 13 patent holders for 13 HIV antiretrovirals, one HIV technology platform, three hepatitis C direct-acting antivirals, a tuberculosis treatment, two long-acting technologies, two experimental oral antiviral treatments for Covid-19 and a Covid-19 serological antibody diagnostic test. Edited by A.N