Police are on high alert after a report from the National Intelligence Service revealed a possible terror attack at the Thika law courts. “We received a report of a possible terror attack at the Thika law courts and immediately mobilised our security apparatus. The situation is contained and there’s no cause for alarm," subcounty security committee chairman and deputy county commissioner Mbogo Mathioya said on Wednesday. He said they are investigating to establish the source of a leaflet that contained information indicating plans to attack the court premises. He did not reveal more details about the leaflet. "Our officers are on high alert within and outside the court premises even as investigations to unearth the perpetrator who wrote the leaflet are underway,” Mathioya said. On Wednesday morning, operations at the court were temporarily halted but sessions resumed later in the day. “Most of the members of the public who were seeking court services were scared, but I want to assure them that their security is guaranteed,” Mathioya said. He said the region is under close watch by security agents, adding that the terror threat might have been a diversionary tactic by those behind it. “We have enhanced our surveillance because the court issue might have been a diversionary scheme. All areas, including learning institutions, are on our close watch,” Mathioya said. Thika chief magistrate Stella Atambo said court sessions had resumed and members of the public were being served. “We alerted the security agents once we got the report, because it was a concern to us as well as our clients whom we serve, and they responded swiftly. Everything is now under control. The matter is being handled properly by the security apparatus and we have resumed our normal operations,” Atambo said. Earlier, Law Society of Kenya Thika chapter secretary Stephen Mbugua alerted lawyers who were handling cases in the Thika courts of the terror threat. “We have received information from the head of the station, Thika law court, that the National Intelligence Service received an alert of an intended terror attack. This explains the heavy presence of police from various departments in the station today,” the communication read. Francis Njihia, who had travelled from Ngorongo in Gatundu North for mention of a case, said he was shocked to find people locked outside the gate. "I found so many police officers and the gate of the court was locked. I heard there was a planned terror attack in the courts. We hope those behind such crimes will be brought to book," Njihia said. The incident comes a few days after the US government renewed its warning to civilian airlines flying in Kenyan airspace to watch out for possible attacks by militant groups. Edited by A.N