One person was killed and several others injured at Miwani Sugar Company during an alleged takeover by Crossley Holdings. Troubled started when a group of youths arrived at the company saying they had a court order and were taking over control at the factory. The company has been under receivership for some time. Two vehicles, one belonging to a security firm, were burnt in the violence. Police who visited the scene after a hour collected the body and never spoke to the media. Dickson Ochieng, the secretary of Miwani Workers Union, said at around 2pm some people went to the factory gate claiming they had a court order to take control of the company, that they were from Crossley Holdings. Ochieng said he was forced together with other senior managers to sit in a meeting, as an official of workers, on the way forward. He said while still in the meeting a group of youths stormed the factory ordering them out. Ochieng said they requested for 40 minutes to consult with the management. “They agreed and left the office where we were. However, within two minutes they came charging at us as others went on to vandalise various offices," he said. Ochieng said since the rowdy youth were armed with various crude weapons; they had no option but to oblige and leave the premises. He however said that when they youth were done at the factory, they moved to Hill camp, also known as white house, where the receiver managers sit. Ochieng said the youth also disrupted learning at nearby school along the Kisumu-Nandi border. He said they ordered teachers and students out of the school, provoking members of the community. “In the process two vehicles were burnt, one youth was killed as others left with several injuries,” Ochieng said. After the incident, lawyer David Otieno of Owiti, Otieno&Ragot wrote to the deputy registrar, environment and land court asking the court to furnish them with any application made by the petitioner. He also asked for any order of attachment or eviction issued to any auctioneer to execute the decree of the court. “Our client has just contacted us to say that some auctioneers who have refused to identify themselves invaded their premises at Miwani in the company of police. They beat people up and looted property in execution of some orders issued by this court,” Otieno said. The lawyer said no proclamation was served upon their client and they are willing to share any documents or information. “I have taken the liberty of contacting counsel for the petitioner Onsongo&co Advocates with a view to obtain details about what is going on," he said. Otieno said his client Richard Onsongo said he had not instructed any auctioneer to undertake the execution of any legal process and has no idea what is going on Crossley Holding purchased the expansive land in December 2007 for Sh752 million through a public auction. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)