Paul Murage, the Kirinyaga man charged with murdering his entire nuclear family, was denied bond at the High Court in Kerugoya on Monday. Judge Richard Mwongo agreed with the prosecution that the accused should go through full trial while still behind bars. Murage has denied five counts of murder he is suspected to have committed in November 28, 2021, at Kathata village in Gichugu. He allegedly murdered his wife, Millicent Muthoni, and their four children. Probation officer James Waweru told the court that the administration, community members, victims’ relatives and parents of the accused objected to his release due to threats to his life. Moreover, he told the judge that his relatives were not willing to deposit any collateral in court. “The accused has no safe place to live,should he be granted bond. He is likely to  be subjected to mob justice due to tension and emotional bitterness by residents," Waweru said. “In that regard,the administration, families from both parties and the community prefer that he be remanded for his own safety." He also revealed that the victims’ relative are yet to recover from trauma of losing their loved ones and no reconciliation has happened between the two families. “The accused and his victims lived together as a family since 2019. The victim’s relatives say they are still grieving and bitter towards him so they prefer he remains locked up,” he said. Njuki is suspected to have used a lethal weapon to commit the murder before he was arrested by Kianyaga police station officers. On January 25, through his state assigned lawyer Heyi Bruno, Njuki filed a prayer to be released on bond. However state lead prosecutor Vincent Mamba objected to his request saying he was not yet furnished with a copy of the formal bond application. The court was also informed that the 33-year-old was an unskilled casual labourer who dropped out of school due to lack of interests in academics, poverty and poor parenting. He will now remain at Kerugoya G.K Prison until April 4, when his case will come up for mention.