@alalmaurice Non-local voters in Kisumu county will support woman representative aspirant Ruth Odinga during the August 9 polls. Forum secretary George Kopala said they are convinced that Ruth is the right and best candidate. “Ruth is one of us and she will represent and champion our interests,” he said. The group represents non-natives who live, work and vote in the county. The forum with more than 4,000 members is believed to have control over some 158,000 voters. The voters spoke during a meeting at Ofafa Memorial Hall on Sunday. It was organised by forum convener Maurice Onono. Ruth pledged to continue pushing for equal distribution of resources, jobs and inclusion of the diaspora in county governance. “I will champion your interests as I have done before. You deserve to be part of the county government,” she said. Kisumu governor aspirant Ken Obura who attended the meeting backed Ruth for the seat. Obura wants to unseat Nyong’o. “I will vote for Ruth. I believe she is the right candidate for the seat,” Obura said. In the past, the Kisumu diaspora forum under the former chairmanship of Milton Obote accused Nyong'o of favouring people from Seme in employment opportunities. Nyong’o dismissed the allegations in his administration as unfounded and malicious. In 2013, Ranguma’s administration was accused of clannism and nepotism. Experts believe Ranguma's loss in the 2017 election was largely due to the allegations. They said 90 per cent of county jobs were given to people from Ranguma’s Kano clan. The diaspora members have always criticised their exclusion from the county appointments under ex-governor Jack Ranguma and Governor Anyang' Nyong’o. Ruth will face former Kisumu city manager Doris Ombara, former Kisumu Tourism executive Rose Kisia, former Citizen’s Convention party leader Grace Akumu and Kisumu Maendeleo Ya Wanawake chairperson Caren Aketch. Others eyeing the seat are philanthropist Beatrice Atieno, Valentine Otieno, current Kisumu Land executive Judith Atyang and Central Seme MCA Sally Okudo. They want to replace incumbent Rosa Buyu. Buyu has shifted her political interest to the Kisumu West parliamentary seat and wants to unseat incumbent MP Olago Aluoch. Aluoch defeated her in 2013. The candidates who are seeking an ODM party ticket started the hunt for votes by meeting traders, women, youth groups and opinion leaders. Ruth was confident she would win the seat. “My development track record as first deputy governor speaks volumes,” she said. On the Odinga’s dominance in the political arena, Ruth said they have the democratic right to contest for any political seat like any other Kenyan. “We have identity cards and can make our own decisions. It is, therefore, our right to sell our ideologies to electorates for them to decide whether to elect us or not,” Ruth said. There have been murmurs over the dominance of Odinga’s after Oburu Oginga officially declared his senatorial bid on Saturday. His son Elijah Bonyo Oburu also eyes to unseat Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda. Ruth faulted those who have been profiling the Odinga’s who ventured into politics saying there was nothing wrong about it. Edited by Kiilu Damaris