Newly-appointed National Olympic Committee of Kenya commissions have been urged to put sportspersons' welfare at the forefront of their activities. The commissions are part of the committee's eight-point legacy plan, which is centered around a performance-based approach to the preparation of national sports teams for international assignments. The working group commissions include elite athlete performance; strategy and performance; medical; youth; NOC-K Institute; marketing; youth; gender; sports and sustainability; and sports and active society. NOC-K secretary-general, Francis Mutuku, said it would be painful for the members of the respective commissions to exit at the end of their terms with a lot of regrets. "My invitation to you is that when you leave the office at the end of your term, you will not be saying 'I wish you could have done things differently.' Instead, you should be saying 'because of what I did, I am proud of serving during this period," Mutuku said. Mutuku assured the commissions of the top brass's support even as they work to execute their respective mandates. "Each commission has a member of the executive committee attached to them. Whatever you discuss or deliberate on can be brought to us so we can act upon," he said. Mutuku added: "This speaks to the spirit you are expected to bring to the Olympic Committee as well as the Olympic movement. A lot of you in this room have a vast experience in different areas and we believe that if we work together we can do great things." The commissions are expected to commence work immediately considering some of them are behind schedule, such as the youth. "First thing our Youth commission must do is to organise a youth camp. Schools are about to close and we are late to prepare for one. So this commission will be expected to run and oversee the youth camp while there will be an executing team," Mutuku explained. Speaking on behalf of NOC-K president Paul Tergat, second Deputy President Waithaka Kioni urged the commission members to work concertedly in achieving their respective objectives. "In order to accomplish this ambitious dream, the executive and the secretariat require the input and collaboration from other stakeholders beyond our walls. "We want to tap and exploit the incredible knowledge and experiences from citizens of this country who want to make a difference in our sports and the Olympic movement for that matter that is why you were all precisely chosen,” he said.