ODM leadership in Kisumu Central constituency has declared that the party's ticket will be given to Governor Anyang Nyong'o, a decision likely to elicit political backlash. Seth Ochieng alias Adui, who is the constituency party chairman, said the issue is not negotiable. "We have made a decision as a party, it's a done deal. The county delegates had also pronounced themselves on this matter," he said. Ochieng, who is also the MCA for Market/Milimani ward, said those who have paid the nomination fees to the party headquarters to seeking the ticket are wasting their efforts. "We pity them because that money may go down the drain. You can't bypass our office and head straight to Nairobi to pay for what you will not get," he said. Ochieng reiterated that  he won't resign from his position in the party ahead of August 9, polls. "I am not even sure if I'll be reelected, I can't risk losing both seats,” he said. Nyong'o is set to battle for the party ticket with former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura. Ochieng further said, "We will declare Nyong'o the winner and I must be announced alongside him." "If I am not around, who will protect his government," he said during the opening of the Stanbic Bank branch in Kisumu on Friday. Ochieng noted that Kisumu ODM delegates had resolved to support Nyong'o and he is the candidate who will fly the ODM flag. The MCA, however, said it's their democratic right to contest any seat. Ochieng said Nyong'o has initiated development projects in Kisumu and should be re-elected to continue his legacy. Nyong'o, he said, needs another term to complete his project. Kisumu assembly speaker Elisha Oraro also declared his support for Nyong'o because of his development track record. "I am not supporting Nyong'o just because of political interest but because of his good performance in his five year tenure," Oraro said. "He has implemented projects targeted at improving the livelihoods of residents." Oraro cited the Sh241 million non- motorised transport system and construction of markets among other projects. Last month, Senator Fred Outa, ex-Kisumu county Speaker Onyango Oloo and former Governor Jack Ranguma resolved to back Obura to face Nyong'o in the ODM nominations. The four,expressed confidence that Obura will clinch the ticket in the primaries. Obura pledged to mount structured campaigns to defeat Nyong'o. In the past, Obura and Outa said they will face Nyong’o even if he is given a direct ticket by ODM. They said the want to save the residents from what they termed as bad leadership. Obura promised to conduct a door-to-door campaign to popularise his bid. In addition, the four said they have another candidate who will face Nyong'o as an independent ticket if nominations are not  free and fair. The plan is to back Ranguma. “Leaders should be elected based on their ideologies and not by being imposed on people because this will lead to voter apathy in the region,” Obura said. He said more focus and energy should be directed towards consolidating support for Raila’s presidential bid, and not endorsements. Obura said Raila’s presidency outweighs the aspiration of other aspirants hence the need to unite. He said ODM should uphold democracy by conducting free and fair nominations. Recently, ODM deputy leader Wycliffe Oparanya called on party officials to embrace every aspirants saying Raila Odinga needs everyone on board to win the presidency. Oparanya said they should also focus on strengthening the party behind Raila's presidential bid. He said the officials should be neutral and desist from remarks of "preferred aspirants" in order to consolidate votes for Raila. He spoke during the ODM Kisumu delegates’ convention at Tom Mboya Labour College two weeks ago, where delegates endorsed Nyong'o for re-election. "I urge leaders to embrace those who come to the party, we need a strong party. If you want Raila to win, we need everybody in the party," he said. Oparanya said ODM was founded on democracy and will strive to conduct free, fair and credible nominations. “We will subject all aspirants to nominations and nobody will be given a direct ticket as is being peddled by some people,” he said Oparanya said party officials propagating the "the perceived line up" are Raila’s enemies and will jeopardise unity of voters. He, however, distanced himself from the endorsement of Nyong’o for re-election by the delegates. Oparanya said he will support Nyong’o after the party nomination exercise. (Edited by Tabnacha O)