Ten-time Kenya Cup champions Impala Saracens will appeal against the decision to relegate them from the top tier to the championship. The Sarries, who tied 10th on the log with rivals and neighbours Quins on 17 points, were relegated alongside Nondies a week ago after the group phase. The Ngong-Road outfit won their final group phase, beating Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology 42-13 with a bonus point. Quins lost 24-8 to Mwamba as Nakuru and Homeboyz won their final fixture to preserve their status for next season. Impala chairman, Charles Ngovi, said following consultations with the executive committee, they have decided to go to the Kenya Rugby Appeals Council and have their case heard and determined. "We believe we have a strong case and we hope justice will prevail,” said Ngovi. The league and fixtures committee said according to the Kenya Cup manual, the determining factor when two teams tie on points is head to head and that tilted the result in favour of Quins who had beaten Impala 29-20 earlier in the season. However, Ngovi believes the devil lies in the interpretation. "We believe we have a different interpretation to the rule and this is something we will raise during the appeal process,” said Ngovi. The former Kenya Simbas' assistant coach and the player believes the appeal process will take roughly two to three weeks before the outcome is announced. "We should know the fate of the appeal by the end of the month,” he noted. He said the club will field a competitive side for the Enterprise Cup later this month and the Sevens circuit in May. “Irrespective of the outcome of the case, the boys are fired up for the remainder of the season and will put up a good performance in both the remaining tournaments. Elsewhere, the Kenya Cup final will be staged at the Bull Ring in Kakamega this Saturday and Kabras RFC, who finished top of the log, will be hosts. Kabras will tackle Menengai Oilers in a 3:00 pm kick-off clash. The venue will also host a women’s final, pitting Impala Saracens women’s team and Mwamba Rugby Club. Pitch B at the Bull Ring is set to host the third-place play-off match between outgoing champions KCB  and Strathmore Leos.