Businesswoman Lucy Wanjiru Ndung’u has joined the race for Limuru MP. Wanjiru is the daughter of retired long-serving councillor Ndung’u Njenga. Njenga served as a civic leader between 1978 to 2007 representing Ndeiya Ward in Kiambu county. Njenga was a close friend of presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi. He is feted for bringing transformation in Ndeiya through provision of water and construction of primary and secondary schools. He retired from politics in 2007. Wanjiru has joined the contest that was previously deemed as a two-horse race between former MP Chege Kiragu and the incumbent Peter Mwathi. Another aspirant is businessman Sammy Maina, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto. Wanjiru will be vying on Martha Karua’s Narc Kenya ticket. Maina and Kiragu will square it out for the United Democratic Alliance ticket during nominations while Mwathi is vying on the Jubilee ticket. Yesterday, Wanjiru said she is ready to face other contenders and win the seat. She said she enjoys support from men, women and the youth from the area. She said she is conversant with the challenges facing residents ranging from poor education systems, infrastructure, agriculture and health. Wanjiru is banking on support from Ndeiya, Ngecha and Kamirithu location residents who lament that previous have isolated them. “The underdevelopment in Limuru speaks a lot about our past leadership," she said. "Despite the government providing money through CDF, residents are still facing water scarcity and struggling with poor roads." “I would want to focus on agriculture because Limuruis a food basket. I will work with stakeholders to revamp the dairy industry and boost our farmers' livelihood,” she said. Wanjiru said she will also ensure there is a proper road network to open up areas like Ndeiya and Limuru East ward. Wanjiru added that she will lobby investors to set up industries in Limuru to create employment for the youths She said it's time for women in the region to elect fellow women into office because they can better represent  their interests. “The only person who now’s the issues of  the home she sleeps in is a woman. I know what ails the people of Limuru,” Wanjiru said.