A national basketball 3x3 provisional squad of 33 players has been named after successful trials last weekend at the University of Nairobi in readiness for the Commonwealth Games later this year. Kenya Lionesses captain Mellisa Akinyi highlights the quality squad with 16 men and 17 women players in line for the quadrennial show. The trials were conducted in Mombasa, Eldoret, Kajiado, Kakamega, Kisumu, and Nairobi. The national 3x3 teams hope to make their debut at the Birmingham Games. Second-placed Kenya earned a direct ticket for the Summer Games at the expense of top-ranked Egypt who are not an affiliate of the Commonwealth nations. Team manager, Hilmi Juma, exuded confidence that they have a proper team that is ready to rub shoulders with the world’s finest. “We’re hoping to get a good team to the Commonwealth Games. We shall have the U-23 and the seniors just in case Birmingham decides we are going with either of them. We want to be ready. We might be the new kids on the block but we want to go and perform,” the official said. Juma, who is also the Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) first vice-chairman, said the Under-23 will also have the circuit in May which Kenya is bidding to host as the Road to Paris 2024 Olympic Games begins. He said: “Majority of the players are Under-23. We’ve never been to the Olympics and only one country in East Africa has even been to the World Cup. In Tokyo, we had no African country represented but we are hoping to develop players for the show.” A total of 14 players have been selected in the under-23 category. Experienced player Larry Shavanga said they are focused on becoming a powerhouse in the fast-rising game. Africa World Cup qualifiers will be held in Morocco in December with the winner representing the continent at the 2023 World Cup 2023 in Antwerp, Belgium. THE SQUAD: Men: William Spencer, Davies Siaji, Philip Tobias, Brian Letina, Jordan Otieno, Larry Aligula, Domnic Adero, Faheem Nganga, George Darril, Martin Buluma, Timothy Ayieko, Brian Gichana, Fredrick Odhiambo, Niva Morgan, David John, and Gabriel Onyango. Women: Mercy Mumo, Debra Obungo, Melissa Akinyi, Stella Wekesa, Jemima Omondi, Hilda Ndegwa, Christine Omondi, Joy Mupalia, Leah Wambasi, Winnie Chebet, Nicole Otieno, Lavenda Opondo, Hilda Indasi, Natalia Akinyi, Medina Okot, Victoria Reynolds and Babra Diana.