Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo and his Tinderet counterpart Julius Melly have condemned the alleged takeover of Miwani Sugar Company by people purporting to be auctioneers. Koyoo, who raised the matter on the floor of the House, demanded to know who sanctioned the alleged takeover on Wednesday which left one person dead and several others injured. Two vehicles were also torched after a group of people hired by an auctioneer raided the company. In a swift response, members of the public resisted the forceful eviction of Miwani workers over the ownership of land hosting the company. Koyoo termed the takeover as unlawful saying the Miwani land case was still in court. He noted that the company went into receivership to take care of the interest of the public and the government in 2000. "We want swift action taken against those who sanctioned the takeover and harassment of the company's staff," Koyoo said. He also questioned and demanded an explanation of who sanctioned the takeover of Miwani Sugar Company without informing the management. Melly questioned how people purporting to be auctioneers can invade government property and send away workers. He said the factory serves residents from Nandi and Kisumu counties and should be protected by the government. "How can the government allow those purporting to be auctioneers cause mayhem in state-owned facilities. We demand answers and action," Melly said. Miwani ward MCA and Kisumu majority leader Kenneth Onyango condemned the incident and called for the arrest of those involved. He said the land belongs to the community and those purporting to be owners should follow the right procedures as the matter was in court. "We want peace especially now that the country is heading to the election. Nobody is above the law," Onyango said. Last year, the Environment and Land Court ruled that the land belongs to Crossley Holdings Limited. Locals strongly objected to the court ruling saying the land is communal and that it belongs to them. In the recent past, residents of Muhoroni and Tinderet sub-counties have vowed to challenge a court decision that gave ownership of land hosting Miwani Sugar Company to a private company. One of the youths was killed at the Chemusoi centre in the Miwani division on the border of Muhoroni and Nandi sub-county as a result of the skirmishes. By 2 pm on Wednesday, the body was still lying at the scene. Locals blamed the police for failing to respond swiftly when they raised alarm. They came later and picked the body. The factory, which went into receivership in 2000, occupies 10,000 acres of land. The once vibrant factory is now lying idle awaiting refurbishment. For about three decades, the land has been at the centre of controversy between the company and Crossley. Before its collapse, the company was under the management of businessman Ketan Somalia. On other hand, Crossley Holdings Limited insist the land belongs to them after they bought it. But locals drawn from Sidho, Kabar, Wang’aya, Nandi communities want the government to revert the land to the community. They said before the collapse of the sugar company, locals had given out their land for the construction of the mill and the land should be reverted to them if the government fails to revive the factory. Locals said the lease to white settlers for sugarcane prediction ended in 2009. They argued that the land was originally taken by the Europeans in 1902 for sugarcane. On the planned leasing, locals said the government should give them back the land before the company is privatized.