Seventy-five per cent of Kenyans think the new curriculum will improve the quality of education, a survey has revealed. The survey by Afro Barometer shows most Kenyans believe the Competency-Based Curriculum is the turning point for the education sector. This means, as the implementation intensifies, Kenyans are getting a clearer understanding of CBC. The survey which was conducted between November and December last year shows the country’s education services have improved in the past five years. Afro Barometer is based at the University of Nairobi and interviewed 2,400 adults. From the survey, 26 per cent of the interviewees believed it will have an impact on the quality of education while another 13 per cent believed the change would be little. “More than half (52 per cent) of Kenyans believe the system will improve education in the country somewhat or a lot, in addition to 13 per cent think it will help a little bit,” the survey reads. CBC was rolled out in 2018 and has faced a massive backlash from education stakeholders, parents, and teachers. The questions raised included the country’s preparation towards its implementation in terms of finances, teachers' training, and students’ adoption. The group of respondents who think the change will not be massive are members who still have issues comprehending the curriculum. Nine per cent of the respondents, who are not in any way involved with education matters could not tell whether CBC will be impactful or not. On matters of access to education, 27 per cent of the respondents say they had contact with a public school during the year preceding the survey. “Almost three-fourths (73 per cent) say it was difficult or very difficult to obtain the services they needed,” reads the report. Another economic survey conducted by the same research group revealed 75 per cent of Kenyans think the country is going in the wrong direction. This is due to the economic conditions described as worse, moderated living poverty and fair personal living conditions. “Despite these gloomy perceptions, four in 10 citizens expect the country’s economic condition to improve over the next year,” reads the report. Most of the respondents (83 per cent) said the government is performing fairly in managing the economy. Edited by Kiilu Damaris