Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo says he has not stolen a cent of taxpayer's money and dares Senator George Khaniri to sue him if he has evidence. Ottichilo spoke on Wednesday while meeting the Vihiga County Community Health Volunteers at Ebusiratsi Church of God in Emuhaya. The governor dismissed Khaniri’s claims of misusing public funds. “If he knows that I have misused the funds, why is he not taking me to court so that the court can cross examine me based on the evidence he has,” Ottichilo said. He said the senator has been walking around saying he (Khaniri) brought money to him. “He is free to come and collect it because I am sure that money is still where he kept, as for me I haven’t seen his cent,” Ottichilo said. The county boss said Khaniri should up his game in seeking votes, adding that he should prepare for political coldness after August 9. Ottichilo said the Treasury has a formula of disbursing funds to all 47 counties and there is no need for someone to chest-thumb that he brings money to the county. “If he is funding the county, he should come and tell people. He will also be investigated on where he gets that money he is using to fund the county,” he said. Initially, Senator Khaniri had said he brought about Sh23 billion to the county but he cannot see what Ottichilo has done with the money. “Our people have no water, no roads and can’t get medicine, where is the money?” he said. Khaniri who has been in the frontline in criticising Ottichilo's administration said the governor performed dismally. He said the electorate should elect him as the next governor to transform the devolved unit. Ottichilo said what the county has received as its allocation from the Treasury was divided into re-current expenditure and development. He said as a county, they have achieved much despite numerous challenges at hand. “At least every ward in Vihiga has two health facilities well equipped and with staff to run it. We have done about 120 ECDE classrooms across the county. We have also done about 4,000kms of road maintenance,” the governor said. The county boss said the county has scored an A+ in agribusiness by boosting dairy, banana and vegetable farming. He said the Belgium water funded project is soon being completed and will be ready for commissioning by the head of state. “We have also allocated a Trade Enterprise Fund to boost business,” Ottichilo said. The governor said what he has done even a blind man will appreciate. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)