United States International University USIU-A Mashujaa have built a solid team and will challenge for the African Cup for Club Championship slot. The students have finished in mid-table positions between 2016 and 2019 in the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League and are keen to go one better. Coach John Kabuu has subsequently challenged the team to move out of their comfort zone and step on the gas pedal in a bid to finish higher up on the log. Mashujaa have retained most of their key players despite the inactivity in hockey for the last two years, another reason for optimism according to Kabuu. "We have built a solid brand and we didn't lose players as opposed to the past. Previously as an institution, we experienced a period of stagnation because we nurtured the talent but eventually lost them to rival clubs upon the completion of their studies," Kabuu said. "It is a blessing in disguise for us to have a complete squad for the first time in a while. There's belief in the dressing room that this could be our season but the team will be defined by results. We can dream of playing in the ACCC for once because we have what it takes. " To attain their objectives, the coach said Mashujaa will hold drilling sessions for the strikers to help them become more clinical in front of goals. The James Muthii-captained side began the season with a 1-1 draw against Sailors on Sunday but would have left City Park with maximum points had they taken their chances. "We have to work on set pieces. We need extra sessions with the forwards for them to get to understand the three versus two attack formation. Profligacy in attack isn't acceptable," he said. Goalkeeper Samwel Silong has proved reliable and integral to the team. The 21-year-old international is currently Kenya One. He brings calmness to the team and Kabuu wants the rest of the players to have a strong mentality to cap off a good season. "Having a player like Silong calms the nerves of your team. He makes us strong. Despite his age, he has fitted perfectly into the shoes of Linus Sang who turns up for Butali," he noted. 