Nairobi county is set to unveil its first disaster communication centre to enable it respond rapidly to emergencies. The centre will be the focal point for coordinating the response to emergencies and disasters within Nairobi. Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu stated that the centre will be used to manage all disaster management activities. “The centre will be part of the ongoing Ruaraka fire station, whose function will be to coordinate disaster management," she said. The construction of the fire stations comes at a time the country is experiencing frequent fires, especially in informal settlements. The county boss also revealed that the ongoing construction of Ruaraka fire station is in its last phase and will soon be commissioned. “Soon we shall be commissioning the Ruaraka  fire station together with the other two which are already operational,” Kananu added. Ruaraka fire station is a county project funded by the Belgium government while Kangundo road and Waithaka fire stations, which are complete, are funded by the World Bank. Last November, the groundbreaking of Gigiri fire station took place where Scorpion Properties Limited agreed with the Nairobi Metropolitan Services to build the station and donated half an acre of land for the project. The groundbreaking took longer than anticipated as the county had to repossess the land from a private developer who had converted the land into a large business complex . The fire station project is a plus to the county government as the first one was built before independence. Prior to last year, Nairobi had only two functioning fire stations, one at Khoja on Tom Mboya street built in 1907 and another in Industrial Area built-in 1957. Once all the fire stations are commissioned, Nairobi will be having six. In addition, Governor Kananu highlighted that the county will be drilling more boreholes in the next Financial Year 2022 -2023 to ensure that the fire stations are adequately supplied with water. Fire stations within Nairobi have been dependent on water hydrants for water supply to  tackle fire disasters. “In the next financial year, my administration will allocate more funds to ensure we drill more boreholes to supply water to the stations in addition to the water hydrants,” she added. In 2018, only 103 out of the 4,044 hydrants were said to be functional. Most of the hydrants were damaged when the Thika Superhighway was being constructed. The functioning hydrants are located at Globe roundabout, Runda, Kijabe street, Safari Park, one at James Gichuru and three in Industrial Area. World Bank constructed boreholes along Enterprise road, Kangundo road, Tom Mboya street, Waithaka and Dagoretti to assist in places where the hydrants have dried up. According to Kananu many buildings which were previously  built without proper approvals have interrupted the hydrants but some are still functional. Currently, Nairobi has 294 functional fire hydrants with 54  located in the CBD and Kibera sub county. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)