Chelsea midfielder N’Golo Kante said the Premier League team’s players were caught off guard by Roman Abramovich’s decision to sell the club following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine but urged them to stay focused on their quest to finish in the top four. Russian Abramovich said on Wednesday he would sell Chelsea after 19 years amid growing calls for sanctions on the metals magnate, similar to those imposed on other Russian oligarchs, following Russia’s invasion. Abramovich has made vast fortunes since the break-up of the Soviet Union but denies close links to Russian leader Vladimir Putin, whose country calls its actions in Ukraine a “special operation.” “It was something we were not prepared for,” Kante told Sky Sports on Thursday, referring to the announcement by Abramovich. “It came quick, but the only thing we can do because we don’t control these things, is do as best what we have always done ... playing football. “Playing football is the best for us, for the club and for the fans ... it’s the only thing that we control and we want to do that.” Chelsea, third in the English top flight with 50 points from 25 matches, take on Burnley on Saturday. “We are in a good position for the top four, we are fully focused on going game by game and securing that,” the French player said. “It will not be easy as we still need to win many games but we train hard and hope to do it, starting this weekend.” Meanwhile, Newcastle United shareholder Amanda Staveley expressed sympathy for Abramovich after his announcement that he was putting the club up for sale. Speaking at a football summit in London, Staveley once again defended Newcastle’s takeover last year by Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) — a deal she helped facilitate. Critics of the takeover, including human rights groups, say it is an example of “sportswashing” by Saudi Arabia. In reply to a question about her continued insistence that there was separation between PIF, which owns 80 per cent of the club, and the Saudi state, Staveley touched on the Chelsea situation. “I think we’re always going to have geopolitical issues. This world is never going to not have problems. I know it’s really hard,” she said at the FT Business of Football Summit. “And I’m really sad that someone (Abramovich) is having a club taken away from them because of the relationship they may have, I don’t think that’s fair.” Staveley was asked whether European and newly-crowned world champions Chelsea would have been a preferred option for her Saudi Arabian-backed consortium when seeking to buy a Premier League club last year. “We had the opportunity to look at every club, including Chelsea, and Chelsea is a wonderful club,” she said. “And I’m enjoying working with all the Chelsea colleagues on the Premier League board. But no, there was only one club for us, there will only ever be one club for us. “We like the challenge of trying to buy something at the 20th position in the league and try and put it to the top.” Saudi Arabia’s government denies allegations of human rights abuses and says it is protecting national security from extremists and external actors.