A section of Nairobi residents will experience water interruption on Thursday. This follows a major water leakage on one of the two raw water pipelines from Mwagu water intake along the Chania river to the Ngethu water treatment plant. In a public notice by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company limited Managing Director Engineer Nahashon Muguna on Wednesday, water shut down will start from 6 am on Thursday 10 to 6 pm on Friday. This shutdown will facilitate the repair of the damaged pipes. The affected estates include the whole of City Centre, University of Nairobi main campus, Coca Cola Factory, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and EPZ-Athi river. Areas along the  Mombasa road include South B, South C and the neighbourhoods. The whole Industrial area and Upperhill will be affected. Areas to be affected along Juja road include Mlango Kubwa, the whole of Mathare, Eastleigh Airforce Base, Huruma, Kariobangi, Pangani and Eastleigh will also be affected. Areas along jogoo road to experience water shortage are Baba Dogo, Dandora, Dandora KCC factory, Umoja 1 and 2, Donholm, Fedha, Tassia, Avenue park and Nyayo Embakasi. The affected reas along Kangundo Road are Ruai, Kayole, Komorock estate,and Njiru. Areas along Thika road: Kenya Breweries, Kenyatta University, Kahawa Barracks, Kasarani, Mwiki, Kahawa Sukari, Garden Estate and Thome Estate will also be affected. Other affected areas include areas along Limuru road: Parklands, Ngara area, Aga Khan hospital, University of Nairobi - School of Law and City Park Area, Gigiri, United Nation- Gigiri, Muthaiga, Areas along Naivasha road and Kikuyu Road, Kawangware, Riruta/Satellite, Uthiru, Ndwaru Road, Mountain view and  Kangemi, Uthiru and Waithaka. Areas along James Gichuru Road, Langata Road and Waiyaki Way, Riverside, Westlands, Lavington, Kilimani and Kileleshwa will also lack water. Areas along Lang’ata Road: Madaraka estate, Lang’ata and Kibera will also be affected. “We shall strive to complete repairs as soon as possible and resume water supply in Nairobi city,” Muguna said. Muguna also urged people from the affected areas to ensure that they use water sparingly as they wait for the repairs to be done. “Whilst every effort will be made to restore the supply of water as soon as possible, we request all customers in the affected areas to use water sparingly during the period of interruption. Any inconvenience is highly regretted,” said Muguna.