Pwani Social Justice Working Group will deploy undercover officers to monitor political activities at the Coast. The group is a conglomeration of 17 civil society groups. The NGOs said the personnel will be armed with audiovisual gadgets to monitor political activities. They are tasked to report hate speech and political violence ahead of the August 9 polls. Led by Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid, the group said they are concerned over the rising political temperature in the region. The leaders spoke during a press briefing at Roya Court Hotel Mombasa on Tuesday. They said they are witnessing the formation of criminal gangs used to cause violence during political rallies in the region. “Our concern is that enough is not done to contain the situation. We are calling on the leaders to exercise restraint during political activities. They should also resist funding violence in the region,” Khalid said. About 50 election monitors will be deployed to collect information at the coast. “The information will not only be shared with local authorities but also international agencies because we know that Kenyan leaders do not respect their own institutions,” Khalid said. The organisation has partnered with the United Nations, International Criminal Justice Court and the African Commission on Human Rights. Locally, the NGOs have partnered with the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, National Cohesion and Integration Commission and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in their quest to tame political violence. According to the group, three individuals (two citizens and a politician) are already on their watch list as they prepare and gather evidence against them. Simon Kizangu, the group’s chair said there has been increased criminal activities in the region. He said police ought to be vigilant. “The insecurity trend is worrying, we urge the police to move quickly and act before things escalate,” he said. Harriet Muganda, an official within the group said women are becoming more worried about their children being misused by politicians to cause violence. She said the security apparatus tasked with ensuring the safety of citizens should move with speed to control the situation. “They (police) should tame these politicians. We all saw what happened in Tononoka during the Azimio Rally,” Muganda said. Scenes of violence were witnessed during the February 20th rally attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Supporters of businessman Suleiman Shahbal and his political nemesis Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir clashed as the two shared the podium for the first time. Both Nassir and Shahbal, who are jostling for the ODM ticket to succeed outgoing Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, denied any involvement in the chaos. Emily Achieng, who is a person living with disability said people are more vulnerable to political violence. “My worry is the security of the PLWDs and the youth. Even as I move around with my wheelchair, I too have a right to campaign and vote,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)