Chief Justice Martha Koome has launched a Small Claims Court in Machakos County. Koome while launching the court on Tuesday said it will serve both Makueni and Machakos counties. She said the court will conduct its sittings in Makueni County with a sub-registry for virtual court and e – filing support being maintained at the Machakos Law Courts in efforts to enhance access to justice. “The inauguration of this Small Claims Court speaks to our commitment to enhancing access to justice to all Kenyans and is testimony to the fact that we want our justice system to be people-centred,” Koome said. The Supreme Court President said the benefits of the Small Courts include reduced cost for hearing and determination of commercial disputes and personal injury claims where claims are below Sh1 million, expeditious delivery of justice by ensuring that cases are settled within 60 days of filing claims. “In pursuit of this agenda, we have carefully selected court stations like Machakos, which have a high caseload for targeted intervention through the Small Claims Courts,” Koome said. She said the Judiciary currently has four operational Small Claims courts in Milimani, Kajiado, Thika and Eldoret. Koome said plans were on course to roll out similar courts in Mombasa, Nakuru, Naivasha, Kisumu, Kakamega and Meru this financial year. She last month commissioned the construction of a Small Claims Court in Mihang’o, Embakasi which will be undertaken alongside four other sites in Kasarani, Dagoretti, Kayole and Mukuru (Fuata Nyayo). The Chief Justice said the court’s proceedings are flexible and simple where unrepresented litigants can easily prosecute their cases. The first Small Claim Court was established and began operations in April 2021 at Milimani Law Courts in Nairobi. The courts at Milimani are currently manned by 10 adjudicators. As of January 31, 2022, a total of 5, 080 matters had been filed at the Court; of which 2, 347 of total value Sh501.7 million had been heard and determined. Koome said the vision of the Judiciary was to roll out 100 Small Claims Courts across the country by the end of the year. She noted that the Judiciary was also keen to ensure that succession cases were speedily expedited for those involved to get justice and enable them to benefit from the property in question.