Presidential and Deputy Presidential Debates will take place in July, the Media Owners Association, Media Council of Kenya and Kenya Editors Guild have jointly announced. Speaking to the press on Wednesday, at Sarova Panafric, the institutions said specific dates, the venue and logistics will be announced at a later date. "It is scheduled to take place in July in consultation with Political parties ahead of the August 9, 2022. Also a team of senior editors from across media houses has been put in place to secure the interest of Kenyans and to deliver fairness to all concerned," they said in a joint statement. During the presser, Clifford Machoka was also named head of the presidential debates secretariat. Machoka is the current head of External Affairs and Marketing at Nation Media Group. He will be assisted by Leo Mutisya from MCK and Roselia Omungo, the Kenya Editor's Guild CEO. "We have launched a journey which will see quality issue-based debate to enable Kenyans to make informed decisions," MOA's Stephen Gitagama said. During the debate, a live audience representing the various sectors of the society will be present and the public will have a platform to send in their questions as well. "The Committee led by Clifford will issue guidelines on the venue, mode of submitting the questions, which model will be used to decide which candidates will be invited to participate in the debate," Media Council CEO David Omwoyo said. He encouraged all presidential candidates and their deputies to make a point of attending the debates. Kenya Editors Guild President Churchill Otieno insisted that news media has no preferred candidate. "We cannot begrudge media owners who chose to take sides. But the professionals must be given the chance to do what they must do in managing the news process." The committee assured the public  and stakeholders  that  they will give Kenyans  quality issue- based  presidential  and deputy presidential debates that will enable their decision making and effective  participation in this year's election. In the last General elections, two presidential debates and one for the deputy presidents were held. "It is this culture of freedom of expression that has encouraged various stakeholders on the electoral process to hold debates for political and other professional organisation elective positions," Omwoyo added.