Kenya Kwanza Alliance has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta not to make statements that may end up dividing Kenyans. Speaking on behalf of the Deputy President William Ruto-led team, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said recent statements by the head of state might incite Kenyans after the August polls. He said the President is a symbol of national unity, and he is not supposed to openly declare support for certain groups or individuals. Wetang'ula said the President ought to have addressed the recent Sagana meeting in an official or national language. He said Uhuru's statement that he supports ODM leader Raila Odinga to succeed him was a move that lowered his dignity. "When you wear Raila's cap and you openly campaign for him, you are lowering your dignity. We respect you Mr President, but don't lower your dignity again," Wetang'ula said. The Ford Kenya leader asked the President to stop campaigning for Azimio la Umoja camp so that whoever will lose the presidential seat will accept defeat peacefully. Wetang'ula said Ruto will win this year's presidential race. He spoke during the funeral service of Monica Njeri, the mother of former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, in Murengeti village, Limuru, in Kiambu. Wetang'ula was accompanied by MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Njuguna Wanjiku (Kiambaa), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki. The Ford Kenya leader told Uhuru that if Kenya Kwanza Alliance wins the presidency, they will protect the country and take care of him as he retires. "Don't worry about anything Mr President, because you will be safe. We shall protect your dignity. Leave politics aside for now, we have a lot of respect for you," he said. Kuria said he cannot join Azimio la Umoja, even if Oka joins it. "Everybody is asking me which side I'm on. I'm telling them that I'm on the side of God. I cannot join Azimio la Umoja. Even when I die, do not take me there," he said. Kindiki asked Uhuru to embrace all politicians and wish the country well as it heads into the election. Edited by A.N