The 2021/22 Safari Tour champion Dismas Indiza hopes to carry his success in the recently-concluded tournament to the Magical Kenya Open, which starts at the Par 71 on Thursday. Having failed to make the cut in last year's back-to-back European Tour events — Savannah Classic and Kenya Open — the country's oldest pro believes he is in great shape ahead of the tough week at the “Home of Golf” in Muthaiga. "The last two Safari Tour events at Karen and Muthaiga witnessed great scores and this is a clear indication that things are beginning to look up for the Kenyan pros. I have had a good Safari Tour and the plan will be to go into the Kenya Open in similar spirit and fashion,” the 53-year-old said. No Kenyan has won the Kenya Open since its inception in 1967 but Indiza thinks the five-month preparatory campaign in the Safari Tour Series will come in handy. “We have had a great five months of practice in the Safari Tour and I feel much better going into the event. Kenyans are also better prepared than ever before given the good scores witnessed at the series recently," he said. Kenya will be represented by nine pros and six amateurs. The pros who made it via qualification include Dismas Indiza (Mumias GcC), Simon Ngige (Thika Sports Club), Erick Ooko (Golf Park Gc), Greg Snow (Muthaiga Gc), Justus Madoya (Great Rift Valley Golf Lodge Resort), Samuel Njoroge (Railways), David Wakhu (Golf Park Gc) and Mohit Mediratta (Sigona GC). South African-based Daniel Nduva (Nyali G&CC) was handed a wildcard given his good form in Safari Tour’s recent season at Muthaiga where he finished second overall. Nduva landed his spot in Category 6a which is a preserve of Professional tournament Invitations. Other wildcards include KCB Karen Masters champion Toto Thimba Jnr (Silverlakes Golf Estate- RSA), Jayden Schaper (Ebotse Golf Estate- RSA), Ronald Rugumayo (UG), Robson Chinhoi, (Royal Harare GC), Sebastian Heisele (GER) and Paul Chidale (Lilongwe GC -MLW). The six amateurs in Team Kenya are Adel Taufiq Balala (Nyali G&CC), Taimur Malik (Muthaiga GC), Michael Karanga (Kiambu GC), Njoroge Kibugu (Muthaiga GC ), Dennis Maara (Limuru GC), and John Lejirma (Kenya Railways GC). The tournament will feature the first two rounds on Thursday and Friday to determine the cut before the final two rounds for the ultimate winner who will receive a custom-made red jacket. DP WORLD TOUR 2022 WINNERS SO FAR Nov 25 - 28 - RSA Joburg Open (Randpark GC, Johannesburg) - Thriston Lawrence  Jan 20 - 23 -UAE Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship (Yas Links, Abu Dhabi, UAE)-Thomas Pieters  Jan 27 - 30 - Dubai Desert Classic  (Emirates GC, Dubai, UAE) - Hovland  Feb 03 - 06 - Ras al Khaimah Championship presented by Phoenix Capital (Al Hamra GC, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE) Nicolai Hojgaard  Feb 10 - 13 -Ras al Khaimah Classic (Al Hamra GC, Ras Al Khaimah, UAE) -Ryan Fox