The Kenya Hockey Union League finally kicks off on Saturday, two years after the Covid-19 enforced lull threatened to send the game into oblivion. Four Premier League matches (two in each of the men and women's categories) are lined up at the City Park Stadium as stakeholders prepare to get a feel of what they have been missing. Blazers captain Tracy Karanja said her teammates can't wait to step onto the turf with the record champions playing  Sliders at 4 pm. "Everybody is eager to return to action. We love the game so much and we aim for maximum points. However, it won't be easy considering that we've not played for a while," said Mwangi. "The pandemic has affected everyone but that is no excuse. We are focused and ready to play." Wolverines women's side play Amira Sailors on Sunday and coach Dennis Owoka expects a tough match. "It won't be easy against Amira but we hope for the best. We have had a few friendly matches and it's hard to predict how the girls will perform. We, however, feel no pressure considering it's our first match," said Owoka. "The pandemic really took a toll on us. Some players are yet to return to training and I doubt if I'll have a full squad come Sunday." United States International University USIU-A Mashujaa face Sailors. Mashujaa goalkeeper Samwel Silong said he's been burning the midnight oil to erase his weaknesses as he targets the golden glove come the end of the season. The  21-year old international was part of Team Kenya to the African Cup of Nations in Accra, Ghana, in January. "What a great time to return to the turf," said Silong. "It is a level playing ground for everyone after the long break but the intention is to win. This is the season I would like to take my game to the next level. Teamwork will make us thrive." In the mens' Super League, Sikh Union square it off with Park Road Tigers while Kenya College of Accountancy clash with Technical University of Kenya TUK. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology will rub shoulders with Wazalendo Masters.