Ferdinand Omanyala is confident of lowering the national record for 60m at the World Indoor Championship in Belgrade, Serbia on March 18-20. The national 100m record holder said competing at the World Indoor Tour series last month has greatly improved him and believes it is only a matter of time before his medal cabinet starts filling up. During the series, the Kitale-born broke the national 60m record thrice — the latest being the Meeting Hauts-de-France Pas-de-Calais in Lievin, France where he clocked 6.57 in fourth. "It was definitely the right decision to compete in the Indoor tours. I got to compete with different runners who have clocked very fast times in 60m and this sharpened me. Going forward, I hope to lower the national record in Serbia," Omanyala said. Despite his great exploits on the track, the sprinter is yet to claim a podium place at a major championship but is nonetheless unworried about the medal drought. "I am not under any pressure because once you allow yourself to be pressured then you will be distracted from the most important things. Everything will happen at its own time and for me, the focus is just to keep improving day by day," he said. Omanyala is part of the 10-athlete team named by Athletics Kenya on Monday to represent the country in Serbia. Other notable names on the list include Tokyo Olympians Daniel Simiu and Jacob Krop (3000m), Abel Kipsang (1,500m), and Ednah Jebitok (1500m and 3000m). Simiu will be heading to Eastern Europe in bullish form after a good outing in the World Indoor Tour. The Discovery Kenya Cross Country champion set a new course record of 7:42.93 in the men's 3000m at the World Athletics Indoor Tour Bronze meeting in Mondeville, France last month. Also hopeful of good fortunes is world indoor 800m champion Collins Kipruto who will be defending his title. World Under-20 800m bronze medalist Noah Kibet also makes the team as is Naomi Korir who won silver in the mixed 2x2x400m relay at last year's World Relay Championships in Silesia, Poland. The team will be led by Barnaba Kitilit and coached by 2008 Olympic 800m silver medalist Janeth Busienei. Team: 