Boxing Federation of Kenya has rolled out a comprehensive plan to cushion Kenyan boxers from the hectic financial challenges they encounter once they retire from the ring. Speaking on Monday, BFK communications director, Duncan Kuria, reiterated the need for local boxers to save enough money for future use. Kuria said many Kenyan boxers end up leading miserable lives upon retirement because they lack a clear-cut financial plan. “We have rolled out a plan to cushion boxers from financial adversities. We want to sensitise them on the dangers of failing to invest their earnings,” Kuria said. “Saving for the future will protect them from uncertainties and provide them with an opportunity to enjoy a quality life.” “There is life after boxing and how well our boxers fare in the future will mainly depend on the decisions they make when they are active,” Kuria said. Boxers, he said, should consider setting up businesses as their alternative sources of income. “Our boxers should be encouraged to save a certain percentage of their wages with which they may set up income-generating activities,” Kuria said. Kuria further underlined the need for boxers to pursue education in order to compete effectively for the few job opportunities available in the market. Unlike in the past, boxers must now meet basic academic requirements to secure a job in entities such as the National Police Service or the Kenya Defence Forces, he said. “In the past, boxers would secure employment in corporate and government organisations only to be retrenched when the need for structural adjustment arose. “This was because they lacked education and had been employed on the strength of their talents in sports,” said Kuria. "That meant they had nowhere else to turn to for support and this is precisely what we want to discourage going forward." “The lack of relevant academic credentials has locked out many boxers from employment and, as such, we must now find new ways of cushioning them once they retire from active competition,” added Kuria. Kuria advised local coaches to stress the importance of education to budding boxers. “The boxers will be in a better position to sustain themselves if they have separate baskets to reap from,” said Kuria. “The issue is not confined to boxing alone. Players in other sports should also be guided.”