KCB has shifted focus on winning the Enterprise Cup and retaining the national Sevens title after missing out on the Kenya Cup title, assistant coach Dennis 'Ironman' Mwanja has said. The bankers saw their quest for a fifth Kenya Cup title go up in smoke following a 24-17 defeat to Menengai Oilers at the Lions' Den in Ruaraka. The former Kenya Sevens international said there is a lot to play for this season. "We had a meeting with the team on Monday and with the Enterprise Cup starting in a fortnight and the sevens circuit in May, we will be going all out to win both trophies,” said Mwanja. Mwanja said the boys had put aside their Kenya Cup disappointment behind them and were relishing the challenge of finishing the season strongly. "The players have vowed to bounce back and I am confident we will see a strong finish to the season,” said Mwanja. He hailed Gibson Weru's charges for their win and wished them the best of luck in the final. “Oilers are a side who are on the up and they played well, took their chances and we wish them our best regards for the final," said Mwanja. However, Mwanja termed the officiating in the semifinal as 'poor'. “I think the referee Constant Cap came with a fixed mind some of the calls he made were not what we are used to he did not want to engage with the captain to communicate his decisions The bankers last won three successive Enterprise Cup titles between 2015-2017. The bankers will open their campaign for the Enterprise Cup against Strathmore Leos on March 19. A win against the varsity side will see the bankers face either Blak Blad or Mombasa Sports club in the quarterfinals on March 26. Elsewhere, the 2022 Kenya Cup final will be staged at the Bull Ring (Lions Primary) in Kakamega, organisers have announced. The Kenya Rugby Union in a statement: “Kabras RFC, who finished top of the log are set to be the host. Kabras will tackle Menengai Oilers in a 3 pm kick off clash." The venue will also host a women’s final pitting Impala Saracens and Mwamba Rugby Club. Pitch 'B' at the Bull Ring is set to host the third-place play-off match between outgoing champions KCB and Strathmore Leos.