The number of youths joining technical and vocational education institutions in Lamu is extremely low despite the courses being free. Lamu deputy governor Abdulhakim Aboud said the number of youths joining TVETs still does meet the expectations. Speaking when he presided over the graduation ceremony for 380 students at the Lamu Polytechnic over the weekend, Aboud urged youths  to take advantage of the TVETs sponsorship programme. He challenged the youths to register for technical training courses within the county to acquire skills that would help them better their lives. Aboud reiterated that technical courses play important roles and are marketable in the current world. “There is no reason why our youth should stay without a skill yet we have made this free. All you got to do is register and turn up,” said Aboud. He noted that massive state projects like LAPSSET are in need of skilled workers and therefore, it’s imperative for the  youth to arm themselves with the necessary skills to attract employment opportunities. Lamu county education executive Paul Thairu said the provision of free TVET learning across the county is part of Governor Fahim Twaha's larger 'Youth Empowerment through Education' agenda. The program focuses on introducing courses that emphasise skill development in specific sectors, as well as exploring value chain opportunities. It also aims to  bridge the gap between the blue economy, sustainable economic development, and economic growth among other objectives. He divulged that 14 satellite TVET branches have since been opened across Lamu  and that all have scrapped school fees and expanded the curriculums. Thairu urged more local youths to adequately prepare to take up opportunities emanating from the mega Lapsset project, saying TVETs  offered technological skills required to drive the critical infrastructure forward. "The port, roads, railways, pipelines, and refineries are all part of the Lapsset corridor program, and they all require technical talent that is primarily imported from other countries and counties,"said Thairu. "The more we increase our youth's technical capabilities, the more that equation will shift.” Courses offered by the various TVETs in Lamu include ICT, motor vehicle mechanics, hospitality, marine transport and logistics. Others include marine security, vessel repair, entrepreneurship, electrical, plumbing, carpentry, arc welding, masonry, henna painting, fashion design, airdressing, beauty, among others. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)