Kwale police county commander Amrose Oloo has warned police officers against handing over their rifles to candidates for photo sessions. His warning came as the KCPE exam started on Monday. Oloo told the officers that firearms are not  toys and only authorised individuals should handle them. "Avoid being the training instructors in schools where you want to give lectures to pupils as far as the mechanism of your rifle is concerned," he said. The county police boss stressed that no officers should allow their firearms to be used by the students to take photos. There has been some incidents of police officers dropping guard as their guns recklessly circulate among the candidates endangering lives during exams. Some brandish the guns and show the learners how the weapon operates. Oloo said no indiscipline cases would be tolerated in the police force warning officers of stern action once found. The officer said the National Police Service won't hesitate to take disciplinary actions against the culprits. He said the firearms should be handled with caution and only used when  necessary. "That rifle was given to you for your protection and to enhance the safety of the public and candidates doing the exams," he said. Oloo also advised the officers against consuming alcohol during the exams. He said the police are needed sober to ensure maximum security and credible exams. The officer said any police who will be found drunk during administration of the exams will be replaced and arrested for disciplinary actions. At the same time, Oloo told the examination centre managers not to misuse the security team. He spoke on Monday while opening the KCPE examination papers to centre managers in Matuga subcounty, Kwale. He warned against letting police officers carry exam papers. "These are not your messengers. Their role is to provide security and not to carry examination papers." He urged both the centre managers and the security team to observe time for smooth administration of the national tests. County Commissioner Gideon Oyagi said the supervisors should avoid recklessness that might lead to exam leakage. He said enough transport has been provided and no one is expected to use private means apart from the authorised vehicles. "It is not your business to provide a vehicle and don't be cheated to use yours because you will be the first person to write a statement in case of anything," he said. Oyagi said the students living in drought-hit areas will be provided with lunch to sustain them during the exam period. At least 23,375 KCPE exam candidates are sitting for the national tests in the region. About 11, 758 are boys while 11, 617 girls. They will be distributed to 464 examination centres that are under police surveillance. County Education Director Martin Cheruiyot said the number of girls has surpassed that of boys in the KCSE exams. There are 8,969 candidates out of which 4,368 are boys and 4,601 are girls. About six KCSE exam candidates will be having their exams in prisons after being linked to school arsons. According to Cheruiyot, two KCPE exam candidates from Kinango and Matuga will have the national tests in hospital.   -Edited by SKanyara