Over 26,000 drought-hit families in Kwale have received relief food from the government. The distribution exercise was launched on Tuesday to cushion the most vulnerable families. Currently, more than 200,000 people in Kwale are on the verge of facing acute hunger. Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said the government will ensure each affected family receives relief food. “President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent me to deliver these goods and assured you no Kenyan will starve to death,” Oguna said when he officially flagged off the distribution in Msambweni. The spokesperson said the government has dispatched 52,000 bags of rice and 42,000 bags of beans in the first phase. Kwale received 2,500 bags of rice and 2,000 bags of beans. Matuga, Msambweni, Lunga-Lunga, Samburu and Kinango subcounties will receive 500 bags of rice and 400 bags of beans. He said the food distribution programme is part of the government efforts to lessen the effects of hunger in the 23 drought-hit Arid and Semi-arid counties. Oguna said about 2.7 million Kenyans are facing hunger due to drought. The number of affected people has risen by 0.6 million since last year when the government announced drought as a national disaster. By December last year, at least 2.1 million Kenyans were facing hunger as drought took a heavy toll in the listed ASAL regions. Oguna said the food distribution programme will strengthen the cash transfer exercise to help the affected people. Last year, the government allocated Sh2 billion to support residents in drought-stricken areas. The targeted families were to receive Sh3,000 monthly stipend. Oguna said so far, about Sh680 million has been disbursed to Kenyans through M-Pesa services. In Kwale, Sh78 million has been spent on the cash transfer mobile platforms to cushion affected families from hunger and humanitarian crisis. Oguna said apart from food and money, the government has launched a livestock offtake programme. The government in partnership with the Kenya Meat Commission and Red Cross is buying weak livestock from farmers to cushion them from incurring losses. The government was buying the cattle at a fixed price of Sh15,000. The livestock is later slaughtered and the meat is distributed to the residents as food. The programme targeted 2,600 livestock in Kwale, especially in Kinango and Lunga-Lunga where drought is intense. Previously, more than 5,000 livestock died in Kinango due to the increasing dry weather. Food, water and pasture are scarce. The government had allocated Sh40 million for the off-take programme in the region. Oguna said the second phase of the livestock off-take programme is yet to start and this time meat will be given to everybody. He said the food programme shall continue until the areas receive rain. The spokesperson urged the residents to support the government. He said it is determined to improve lives through beneficial projects. The spokesperson said phase three of the Kazi Mtaani project will improve livelihood among youth. Oguna said the government has promoted education by making it free and bursary programmes that are benefiting millions of Kenyans. County commissioner Gideon Oyagi urged youth to apply for the Kazi Mtaani and sustain themselves. Beneficiary Juma Dzombo said the relief programme has come at a time when they needed it most. Dzombo said they could barely get two meals a day and the food rations will push them for some weeks. Amina Ali, a beneficiary,  said they used to feed on mangoes since their livelihood activities were affected by drought. Edited by Kiilu Damaris