Over the most recent twelve Olympic Games since 1994, Russia's 547 total medals — including 196 gold medals — are second only to the United States and China. However, the world superpower might miss out on another glorious opportunity to embellish its cabinet with more medals and honours after shifting focus elsewhere. Russia has rattled the global sports fraternity following its invasion of Ukraine. On Monday, the world football governing body, Fifa, severed ties with the country in the wake of heated worldwide protests. The Union of European Football Associations— the umbrella organisation for 55 national football associations — also imposed a sanction. The two bodies join the ballooning list of protestors, including the International Olympic Committee, who have swung into action to express solidarity with Ukraine, days after the Russian military staged an invasion. Fifa and Uefa's decisions mean Russia has been locked out of their World Cup play-off semi-final match against Poland initially scheduled for next month. The country's women’s team has also been barred from this summer’s European Championship in England. Equally affected is the Soviet Union's remaining team in European competition, Spartak Moscow, who have been ejected from Europa League. “Fifa and Uefa have today decided together that all Russian teams, whether national representative teams or club teams, shall be suspended from participation in both Fifa and Uefa competitions until further notice," Fifa and Uefa said in a joint statement. These decisions were adopted by the Bureau of the Fifa Council and the Executive Committee of Uefa— the highest decision—making bodies of both institutions. "Football is fully united here and in full solidarity with all the people affected in Ukraine. Both Presidents hope that the situation in Ukraine will improve significantly and rapidly so that football can again be a vector for unity and peace amongst people.” So grim is the situation that Uefa also announced it had cancelled a  lush sponsorship deal with a gilt-edged Russian firm, Gazprom. The Russian gas company had pumped enormous funds into the Champions League for the past decade so much such that the final of this year’s competition was to be staged at the Gazprom Arena in St Petersburg. But last week, Uefa switched the Champions League finals to Paris in the heat of the moment. “Uefa has today decided to end its partnership with Gazprom across all competitions,” a statement said. “The decision is effective immediately and covers all existing agreements including the Uefa Champions League, Uefa national team competitions, and Uefa Eu. Fifa's initial verdict was that Russia could battle for a World Cup slot if they changed their name and played matches on neutral grounds — a decision Poland came out strongly against. A significant number of European nations, including the football associations of England, Scotland, Wales, and the Republic of Ireland rallied behind Poland's tough stance. The development forced Fifa into a fresh decision even as the International Olympic Committee called on all sporting organisations to act. Kenya, being a signatory to the UN Convention on Human Rights should join forces with other nations to condemn the heinous acts being perpetrated by the Russian forces against Ukrainian nationals, among them sports personalities. Grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949, include wilful killing, torture or inhuman treatment.