A mysterious fire that gutted Migori government offices in 2017 yesterday took centre stage in the hearing of a corruption case against Governor Okoth Obado. The governor is charged alongside six family members with conspiracy to defraud the state of Sh505 million. State witness Robert Rono told trial magistrate Lawrence Mugambi that the timing of the fire incident raised questions on whether it was a deliberate effort to derail EACC investigations into alleged corruption in the county government. Rono is a forensic investigator with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. He was testifying in the case in which Obado is charged alongside his four children Dan Achola, Scarlet Susan, Jerry Zachary and Evelyne Odhiambo. They are charged together with businessman Jared Kwaga, his wife Christine Akinyi, his mother Penina Auma, brothers Joram Opala and Patroba Ochanda and sister-in-law Carolyne Ochola. Rono said it was strange that the fire gutted the county’s finance office on the eve of the day county secretary Christopher Rusana was expected to submit to EACC crucial documents in relation to an ongoing probe into financial tender irregularities at the devolved unit. The witness had earlier stated that probes by both the county government and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations failed to link anyone to the arson attack. The county office stored crucial tender documents, payment vouchers and receipts, reports, among others. It was burnt August 25, 2017, at about 2am. “After considering circumstances under which the office and store were burnt, there is no evidence pointing a finger to any specific person for that fire,” Rono said. But he went on, “However, the timing of the arson raised a lot of questions on whether it was a deliberate effort to derail the investigations.” Defence lawyers raised an objection, asking the magistrate to order Rono’s testimony be expunged from court records. Lawyer George Kithi said it was wrong for the witness to adduce evidence that was not disclosed in his statement. “The witness should be confined to his statement and not assumptions and conjecture that narrow the issues. He should not be allowed to delve into a hypothesis that he failed to pursue at the investigation stage,” he said. But the magistrate overruled the objection, saying the witness having sworn to say the truth can give any testimony that he feels might help the court arrive at a fair determination. He asked the defence lawyers to wait for their turn during cross-examination to interrogate the witness. Earlier, Rono said EACC had written to the Migori county secretary on August 21, 2017, asking for documents on all tenders awarded between the 2013-14 and 2016-17 financial years. The letter was received on August 25, 2017, with Rusana going to EACC headquarters at Integrity Centre in Nairobi to explain that the requested documents were not ready, Rono said. The county official promised to avail the document on September 11, 2017. That did not happen. EACC then raised concerns on the slow provision of documents required and issued a notice dated September 20, 2017, to chief finance officer Samuel Omuga requiring that Rusana should provide original documents as was requested in the earlier letter. That notice directed that the documents be availed by Rusana on Monday, September 25, 2017, at EACC headquarters. It was signed by EACC director of investigations Abdi Mohamed. It is that Monday when a mysterious fire was reported at the county government offices. The documents that EACC wanted for the probe were among those destroyed. “The commission had to restrategise for the probe in the absence of those crucial documents because the fire incident disrupted our investigations and we had to go back to the drawing board,” Rono said. Earlier, the EACC investigator listed 23 companies that were awarded county tenders amounting to Sh239 million during the 2015-16 financial year. The firms are owned by the governor’s family members or their proxies. The prosecution says they were paid a total of Sh2.7 billion within four years during Obado’s first term as governor. Rono had on Tuesday presented to court an analysis of the IFMIS payment system showing how the 23 firms were paid the Sh2.7 billion. The hearing was adjourned to March 15.