Rivalry between Suba South MP John Mbadi and Woman Representative Gladys Wanga is escalating over rigging claims ahead of ODM primaries. Wanga and Mbadi are front runners in the county governorship race. The rivalry between the two took a different twist after Wanga accused Mbadi of planning to rig the party nominations. The two have been working together since 2013 but went separate ways since they declared their interests for the seat. Last weekend, Mbadi told Wanga to prepare for a resounding defeat in the nominations. He argued that Wanga and other opponents see him as an unpopular aspirant. On Friday, the ODM national chairman said he will surprise his opponents. “Let’s go for universal suffrage because I see consensus not working. What I know is that I will win under all circumstances,” Mbadi said during his campaign at Sindo stadium. Mbadi compared their contest with a football match where one may score with a hand and be crowned the winner if the referee fails to see. He said he is focused on winning regardless of how it's done. The MP also told his supporters to turn up on the nomination day and vote him, saying he knows where he will get other votes. “Don’t get discouraged because I know how I will win the party ticket and become governor,” Mbadi said. The remarks have not gone down well with Wanga who asked the ODM National Election Board to summon Mbadi to explain his sentiments. Wanga said Mbadi has prepared grounds for rigging the primaries. She argued that Mbadi is instilling fear in residents that the party primaries will not be credible. She added that such utterances can create voter apathy and spoil Raila's gains. ODM plans to identify candidates for August 9, polls through consensus, universal suffrage, direct ticket and delegates system. Raila had said they will prioritise consensus to promote peace and unity in the party. “It’s wrong to give an impression that ODM nominations won’t be credible. The party chairman owes the elections board and supporters an explanation,” Wanga said. Other aspirants in the race are Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, former county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, businessmen Louis Ogingo and Jared Kiasa. Wanga said such comments cannot be taken lightly because of the position Mbadi holds in ODM. She added that Mbadi should be grilled before next month nominations. “Let party supporters know that you cannot score with your hand in a football match and go unpunished,” she said.