Kiwi fruit is also known as a Chinese goose berry as it originally grew in the wild in China. The fruit has a brown fuzzy skin, green flesh and black seeds; although there are some that come in a yellow or golden flesh. Kiwis have a sweet tarty taste and are packed with vitamin C, fiber and antioxidants among other nutrients that are good for the heart. Kiwi’s help fight inflammation Kiwis are packed with carotenoids, antioxidants, Vitamin C and E which may help fight anti-inflammatory effects in the body. Inflammation is common for heart disease as it may promote the growth of plaque (when platelets stick on blood vessel walls) and trigger blood clots which are some of the primary causes of heart attacks and strokes. Some research suggest that they have higher antioxidant levels compared to popular fruits like apples and pears. Kiwi improves iron absorption in the body Due to its high amounts of Vitamin C and carotenoids (the yellow, orange and red pigment in plants), Kiwis could help anaemic people absorb iron from their normal diet. Poor iron absorption is mostly in anaemic people and at times is altered by any abnormalities in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Just like apples, Kiwis also boost the blood’s hemoglobin count. Kiwis can lower blood pressure People who smoke are at risk of blood pressure and risk a higher plaque build-up. A 2012 study that involved smoking men who ate three kiwis for 8 days, showed that they had reduced blood pressure compared to the control group. Kiwis are rich in potassium, which helps to lower the blood pressure. Also, the fruit is low in fat and sodium which helps to regulate the blood pressure. A healthy gut a healthy heart. The Kiwi fruit dietary fibers are susceptible to fermentation, and can help keep bowel movement regular by binding and moving toxins from your intestines. Its soluble fiber may benefit blood sugar regulation and promote healthy gut. Protection against infections and pathogens Kiwis are very high in Vitamin C, which is essential for the immune system function. Vitamin C helps encourage production of white blood cells which help fight infections. You risk severe illness or death if your white blood cells are low.