The perennial water shortage in Thika will be a thing of the past once a Sh11 billion project earmarked to be undertaken in the area is implemented. Population increase, revival of factories and opening of new ones in the industrial town has already augmented water demands in the region, with the area water service provider—Thika Water and Sewerage Company— failing to meet the demand. Thiwasco managing director Eng Moses Kinya on Friday during the company’s annual stakeholders meeting in Thika town, noted that the region’s water demand stands at 56000m3 per day against the company’s daily production of 36000m3. He said the firm currently serves over 300,000 residents in Thika and some sections of Juja and Gatanga constituencies. He spoke when he hosted a delegation of officials from Denmark led by Danish Minister of Environment Leah Wermelin, who have partnered with Thiwasco to initiate projects geared towards improving water provision and sanitation. Kinya said a project funded by the Danish International Development Agency under the Githunguri-Thika Water and Sanitation project will improve water supply in the region up to the year 2042. The MD said the project estimated to cost Sh11 billion will increase water production to 56000m3 per day therefore bringing to an end water shortage in the region. “The company has been overstretched in providing sufficient water to our consumers. The population in our area of jurisdiction has grown immensely, that’s why we have been reaching out to financial partners to initiate projects geared towards improving our services. In this project, Thika residents will start enjoying its fruits in five years time,” Kinya said. He said works that will be undertaken include increase of water intakes upstream along Thika and Chania rivers, expansion of the water treatment plant and construction of water storage reservoirs in Ngoingwa, Kimathi and Section 9 estates. “This project will ensure an all-time flow of clean water to our consumers,” he said. Also, old and dilapidated infrastructure will be rehabilitated. He also divulged that through the project, three sewerage plants will be constructed in Nanga, Pilot and Kilimambogo areas to improve sanitation in the region. “The new plants will increase our wastewater treatment capacity and quality, reduce sewage spillages and chokes and reduce environmental pollution that has been the case now when the old trunk line collapses due to old age thus causing blockages as experienced in the recent past,” he said. The MD said the project will enable adoption of renewable energy through conventional of conventional sewer treatment plant with biodigesters and construction of Mini-Hydro power station at the Chania River intake. “There’s potential to upscale biogas production by partnering with various fruit juice companies in Thika. Their putrescible waste could be turned into a resource. This could help us have additional revenue stream to meet our operation and development requirements,” he said. Kiambu county water Executive David Kuria said currently, Thiwasco has rolled out a water rationing programme that has affected households, schools, factories as well as corporate entities in the region. He said the project is imperative in ending water woes for all consumers in the region. “Water is a precious commodity that plays a key role in this region’s economy. Most factories in Thika require water in their production and manufacturing lines and when it’s scarce, then it’ll mean the production will be less which translates to deterioration of the economy. This is a life-changing project,” Kuria said.   -Edited by SKanyara