Senators have dropped eight bills as they rush to clear the backlog of legislation before their term expires with the August 9 election. Majority leader Samuel Poghisio said the bills, which were at the second reading stage, have been dropped from the weekly programme of the Senate's business. “Movers of these bills who wish to pursue the matter are urged to make an appeal to the speaker in writing for the same to be reinstated,” he said. Minority whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said the proposed laws were shelved due to lack of concurrence between Speaker Kenneth Lusaka (Senate) and Justin Muturi (National Assembly) as provided for in the Constitution. They include the Employment (Amendment) Bill that sought to bar bosses from calling staff outside the stipulated working hours. The proposed law sponsored by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei disconnects employees from work. Employees can decide to disregard phone calls and emails sent outside working hours without any consequences. Also dropped is the Political Party Primaries Bill that aims to streamline party primaries. The bill is sponsored by nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura. It imposed a Sh1 million fine on politicians blocking voters from accessing polling stations, set cap for nomination fees and required candidates to sign declaration forms before taking part in primaries. “A political party may at its own cost hire an institution accredited by the commission to conduct a party primary,” the bill states. The National Cohesion and Peace Building Bill that sought to rename and empower the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to reign in on hate mongers has also been dropped. The bill sponsored by nominated Senator Judith Pareno empowered the NCIC to summon witnesses, call for production of evidence and examine witnesses and parties accused of hate speech on oath. Also expunged from the Senate’s programme is the Alternative Dispute Resolution Bill that provided a legal framework for the settlement of certain disputes by conciliation, mediation and traditional mechanism. The bill is sponsored by nominated Senator Sylvia Kasanga. Other bills dropped are The Coconut Industry Development Bill by Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga, The County E-Health Bill by Pareno and the Sports (Amendment) Bill by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot. The Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Bill by nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga has also been shelved. Currently, 11 bills are due while some 48 petitions and three motions are pending in the Senate. “Respective standing committees are encouraged to expedite consideration of the said petitions and to table reports. The movers of the motions are also urged to be in the House when the same is listed in the order paper,” Poghisio said. The senators are scheduled to break for a two week short recess on Friday. “I urge all senators to take the remaining time before the first recess to ensure that as much business as possible is transacted,” he said. The current term will end with the long recess scheduled for June 17 until after the general election. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)