South African golfer Zander Lombard has pronounced Kenya as one of the best places for him to compete due to the cordial vibes it accords him whenever in the country. Lombard pinpointed the conducive, warm weather as one of the reasons why Kenya is one of the prime golfing destinations in the world. "The beautiful weather, scenery, great nature, and beautiful landscape is what keep me coming to Kenya every year," he said. Lombard's sentiments were echoed by his Dutch peer, Daan Huizing, who cited Kenyans' hospitable nature as one of the key reasons he can never resist the urge to visit the country. "It’s always been nice coming to Kenya. The people are very kind, they always welcome us with open arms and the climate is also very good," Huizing said. The duo was speaking on Thursday after taking time out of their busy schedules at the Magical Kenya Open to sample wildlife at the Nairobi National Park. The safari was spearheaded by Kenya Tourism Board. Huizing said he plans to return soon, specifically for another visit to the park — the only one in the world situated within a capital city. "We are very happy for the opportunity to visit the Nairobi National Park and get to see animals closely. It’s definitely on my bucket list to come back to Kenya without golf clubs but to just enjoy the country,"  he said. KTB CEO Betty Radier urged the foreign golfers to be good ambassadors of Kenya and testify to their friends and family as well as fans about the incredible sights and sounds the country has on offer. "Our goal is to also convert these players into our ambassadors when they go back to their countries. We want to tell the world that there is much more to Kenya and therefore when visitors come to play a round of golf here, they can also take some time out to visit some attractions like the game parks we have in the country," Radier said. She wished the players well during the three-day tournament — which teed off on Thursday — and expressed hope it will be a memorable and entertaining event. "As the tournament kicks off, we hope to witness a world-class golfing experience to be enjoyed by the local and international audiences," she said.