Siaya county Tourism minister  Adrian Ouma has dropped out of the Gem parliamentary race. The CEC failed to resign despite hitting the campaign trail to unseat Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo. It was  established that Ouma was not among the senior officers who handed over their resignation letters to governor Cornel Rasanga. On Monday, Rasanga announced changes in his government, replacing those who had resigned to join politics. Ouma’s name was missing from the list. According to the appointments communicated to the public through a letter dated February 28 and signed by Auscar Wambiya the communication director, Richard Mungla was appointed as CEC Water and Environment. Mungla, who is the CEC for Industrial Development and Enterprise will hold the new position in acting capacity. He replaced Charles Ogada who resigned to pursue politics. Although he is yet to declare publicly, the former CEC is said to be interested in  the Ugunja Central ward seat. In the changes, Rasanga also announced the appointment of Stephen Opiyo as the new chief executive officer of the county public service board. Opiyo who was the director of education will assume the new office in acting capacity. He replaced William Lubalo whose contract has since expired. The exit of Ouma from the Gem parliamentary race leaves  Jalan’go Midiwo who is  Odhiambo’s main challenger to battle it out in the ODM primaries slated for April. Ouma's  exit is said to be a boost to Jalang'o who is  the elder brother of former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo. Jalan’go told the Star that he was in the race to complete projects his younger brother initiated. Jakoyo served the people of Gem for 15 years uninterrupted. “I am not seeking to be elected just because of my family name.  Am seeking to represent my people because I have seen the  existence of a gap. Our people require development and adequate representation which is lacking,” Jalang'o said. He said he was optimistic he will defeat the incumbent in the party nominations. Jalang'o is ODM leader Raila Odinga’s cousin though he noted that he won’t bank on that to clinch the party ticket. “We have been promised by the party's top organ that the nominations will be free and fair. I have no reason to doubt that,” he said. Jalang'o said his main focus will be to establish more technical training Institutions to give primary school drop outs an opportunity to get technical skills to be able to fend for themselves through self employment. "I will also ensure that CDF projects are fairly distributed across the constituency and are executed well so that people get value for money," he said, adding that bursary allocations will be doubled during his time as MP. Incumbent Odhiambo is also optimistic that he has served his constituents well and they will hand him another term as MP. He will be banking  on the development projects he established since 2017. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)