Women are keen on their fashion details, but they are prone to making mistakes, too. Dressing women requires some sense of fashion to avoid such mistakes. For instance, women have to match everything, with complementing colours from the top to the shoes. But for men, any shoe can go with a certain trouser or blazer. 1. Bra straps showing on off-shoulder Whenever you decide to wear an off-shoulder top or dress, you should wear a strapless bra. The strapless bra will not be visible anywhere around the shoulders. However, in case you fail to get a strapless bra, then one needs to wear a bra with colourless straps. Off-shoulder dresses or tops do not cover the shoulders. When wearing backless outfits, use boob tapes and not visible bras. 2. Screaming or no accessories Women should not wear exaggerated accessories on their bodies. Neither should they have zero accessories; this makes the outfit too plain. Exaggerated accessories will make you look confused and not have a clear understanding of fashion. This includes wearing a red dress, red bag, red earrings and red shoes. This looks weird and overly done. Also, wear a dress and spice it up with at least a neckpiece, don’t allow your top to be too plain. 3. Too revealing or oversize You can still look flashy in a fitting outfit, it doesn’t have to be skimpy or baggy. Skimpy outfits will give you a hard time in trying to adjust and resize. For instance, wearing a short dress or skirt and then you keep pulling it down. Baggy outfits, on the other hand, will not show your figure as a woman. You will have breathing space but you will look bigger. 4. Fake designer prints If you can’t get an original designer outfit, at least don’t buy it. We have fake prints that look real but others only embarrass you. For designer prints with logos, you get someone wearing a dress written ‘Chalen’ instead of ‘Channelle’. First, you yourself know that this is fake, which means that it does not give you confidence in yourself. Secondly, those who are quite good at brands will immediately identify a fake outfit. Those who don’t understand will not appreciate the branded item because they just don’t care.