Lots of landlords in urban residential areas have put up small commercial buildings suitable for small businesses, but many of these buildings remain empty as tenants don’t stay longer than a few months. Ideally, it is an excellent idea for landlords with spacious compounds. While much of the plot of land is taken up by residential buildings, there’s usually some space for putting up rooms that can be rented out to traders. There are also the landlords putting up flats and turning the ground floor into commercial rooms of various sizes. This way, the flat attracts businesses on the ground floor and residential tenants on the upper floors. The residential tenants can become the main customers for the ground-floor businesses. The results tend to be mixed. While buildings located along busy roads have no problem attracting businesses, the shops further away have a hard time retaining tenants. The main problem is the low number of customers, especially on weekdays, when most people are either at work or in school. Some landlords, frustrated at the lack of tenants, eventually convert the empty rooms into residential units. Others give up looking for tenants and the shop buildings remain closed for years. “The revenue of a shop in the estate is too low to pay the rent," John Mtwango, a consumer goods salesman, said. Mtwango says shops that thrive in residential areas are mostly those that do not have rental expenses because they are operated by the landlord. “Items sold in shops have a very small profit margin,” Mtwango says. “Where the volume of business is low, the profits will not be enough to pay the rent and give the shopkeeper an income.” WIFE’S HUSTLE Mtwango recalls the experience of a friend who rented a room to start a shop. “The man’s wife said she needed something to do so they came up with the idea of a shop,” he narrates. The couple closed the business a year later because it wasn’t profitable. “By the time they closed down, the shop shelves were bare as rent was eating up most of the revenue,” Mtwango says. Landlords also get disappointed by the lack of long-term tenants. The additional buildings may have been put up with loans which must be repaid regardless of occupancy. This explains why some landlords convert the shop buildings into residential rooms, but this requires investing more money. Converting rooms from shops to homes is a costly affair. Shops have large windows and doors that must be reduced in size. While shop buildings can do with a single toilet shared by the tenants, residential units require additional toilets and bathrooms unless the landlord intends for the new tenants to share these facilities. This is not always possible because some residential areas are not suitable for single rooms with shared bathroom facilities. As you think about monetising your compound, it’s worth investigating how much foot traffic there is around you. Look at the shops in your area and find out how they are doing.