Early Childhood Development Education teachers in Kakamega county will have a scheme of service by June, this year. The county has set aside Sh462 million to roll out the ECDE scheme and another one for county polytechnic instructors. At least Sh422 million will cover the ECDE scheme of service and Sh40 million will cover polytechnic instructors. The scheme of service was developed by a task force appointed by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Education executive Dr George Lutomia on Wednesday said the ECDE teachers will serve on permanent and pensionable terms starting June. The scheme will also provide criteria for promotions. ECDE teachers have been serving on contract since inception of devolution in 2013. Earlier, they were paid some stipends from money raised through school fees payment by parents, some by churches. TSC doesn’t pay nursery school teachers. "We are now in the final stages of executing this scheme for our officers and  we are happy that the relevant stakeholders have ensure an all inclusive approach to the development of the two schemes," Lutomia said. He was speaking during a consultative meeting between officials from the department of education and members of the county public service board at a Kisumu hotel on Wednesday. During the forum, the team reviewed the financial implications of operationalising the two schemes of service. The county has proposed to spend Sh581,110,465 on education according to the county mid-term expenditure framework estimates for 2022-23. Out of the amount, Sh133,110,000 will be spent on ECDE infrastructure development, Sh20 million (maintenance), Sh40 million (furniture), Sh4 million (purchase of land)  and  Sh62, 250, 000 for ECDE subsidy programme. The chairperson of the county task force developing the schemes Sylvia Otunga said the county has aligned its draft with the one already developed by the Council of Governors. CoG is advocating for a uniform policy for all the 47 devolved units. Oparanya announced in September that the county, in partnership with Tetra Pack, Naconek and Ingredion will introduce a school feeding programme for ECDE learners in the county. The governor said his administration targets 124,000 learners once the milk processing plant in Malava becomes operational. “This programme will help us retain the children and attract more to join school.” (Edited by Tabnacha O)