Allies of Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka have opened a new battle front in the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition Party power line up. Led by Kitui Senator Enock Wambua, Kalonzo’s confidants maintained that the Wiper leader should be named Raila’s running mate and Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition deputy party leader and Coalition Council member. Wambua explained that since Raila was named party leader and Coalition Council member, the deputy position should have been given to Kalonzo. In the line up, President Uhuru Kenyatta was named as the chairperson of the Coalition Council. Allies of Uhuru and Raila dominate the leadership of the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition Party. Wambua will serve as the NEC treasurer and will be deputised by Pokot South MP David Pkosing, Lucy Nyoroka Mworia and Likoni MP Mishi Mboko. Speaking at the Kalonzo Musyoka Presidential Command Centre in Nairobi on Friday, Wambua said it was regrettable that the Wiper leader was only listed as a council member. “I will not mince my words. Those who will get the information will do as they please,” he said. “The position given to Kalonzo is unacceptable. He should be the deputy party leader and member of council.” Other members of the Coalition Council are Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui). Others are Murang'a Women Representative Sabina Chege, MPs Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, DAP- K leader Wafula Wamunyiyi and Abdi Noor Omar Farah. Kalonzo and his allies have also been insisting that Azimio presidential candidate names him as running mate. On Friday, Wambua said he will not beat about the bush about his stand in Azimio. “Kenyans should not pretend they do not know the best options. Kenyans are watching and there are steps that if we take, it will not make sense,” he said. Wambua said they have no problem with Uhuru and Raila but some leaders from Ukambani who he accused of trying to undermine Kalonzo. “Party leader, we want you to deal with the President and ODM leader and leave governors Alfred Mutua, Ngilu and Kivutha Kibwana to us. We are not playing games,” he said. “We want to tell them the truth. They cannot be the people standing in the way of making Kalonzo the country’s sixth president.” Wambua said he will not take up his position in the Azimio if their concerns are not addressed. “You will not throw bones at us. If our party leader is not comfortable with the position he has been given, he will not take up the job. Even mine, you can have it,” the senator added. His remarks came barely two days after Wiper opposed the expansion of membership of a top decision making organ of the coalition party from seven to 11 saying it will upset the power balance and hand ODM a majority. Wambua further accused Mutua, Ngilu and Kibwana of not being helpful in Raila’s presidential campaigns lately. “Since we joined Raila’s presidential campaign, the three governors have been a no show. Where are they?” he posed. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau said they will not settle for anything else other than the position of running mate. “Our party leader sacrificed a lot and that is not a sign of weakness or cowardice. We are challenging Raila to just declare our party leader his running mate,” he said. Machakos governor aspirant Wavinya Ndeti told Raila that he has worked with Kalonzo before and should not hesitate to do it again. “Why would he go to pick another person as his running mate yet the one he has been working with before is available?” she posed. “If Raila makes Kalonzo his running mate, he can be assured of 101 per cent of votes from the Kamba community.”   -Edited by SKanyara