Transport operations on the Katito-Sondu road in Nyakach, Kisumu county was on Sunday temporarily disrupted following protest by residents over cattle theft. The residents barricaded the road at Holo area on the busy highway to Kisii town to protest the perennial cattle rustling in Nyakach. The demonstrations comes after unknown number of cattle rustlers raided a home at Ramogi area in Sigoti location and stole cattle on Saturday night. A resident, Edwin Tambo, said they were angered by the animal theft as it occurred a few meters away from the Anti Stock Theft Unit police camp. The protestors used twigs and logs to barricade the road causing traffic snarl up for hours. During the raid, the rustlers stole two animals after breaking into the animals pen through the roof. Already, one has been recovered by police in collaboration with residents. "The ASTU camp was established here to address animal theft which has been rampant in the area. But what is more worrying is that cattle theft continues with police officers next door," Tambo said. He said the demonstration was targeted at the officers stationed at the ASTU camp over claims that they are ineffective and incompetent. County police commander Alphonse Kimathi said they deployed officers who effectively restored peace and calm in the affected area. “The area subcounty police commander was on the ground and through dialogue, residents willingly removed the barricades. Transport system resumed,” Kimathi said. He said police are still trailing crucial leads to the recover the other animal and arrest suspects. Kimathi said there were no casualty reported as residents were not engaged in any fights. The police boss urged residents to embrace dialogue to resolve conflicts  and live harmoniously. “We want citizens to know that they need each other. They should embrace brotherhood and sisterhood for the sake of peace and development,” Kimathi added. Residents suspect the stolen animals were taken to the the neighbouring Kericho county by rustlers with local accomplices in Nyakach subcounty. The efforts to curb cattle rustling in Nyakach has for years been futile with area MP Aduma Owuor championing for the establishment of ASTU in the area. Owuor, who has been in the forefront in the war against animal theft, called for heightened patrol along the borders of Kisumu and Kericho counties to curb rustling.   -Edited by SKanyara