Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua has urged Kirinyaga residents not to be lured by the 'six-piece suit' campaign craze but instead elect leaders based on their ability to deliver. Karua said political parties are just attractive vehicles that enable politicians to get to their desired destination. She warned that the parties cannot be held responsible over the competency of any leader and as such it was the duty of the electorate to assess their efficiency. Karua said despite political movements being resourceful in accomplishing a given political mission, they  are not constitutionally charged with the mandate of serving the public. As such, she said, the electorate don't report their problems to the parties due to the incompetence of one of its elected leaders. "Let us not be overwhelmed by party euphoria to the point of electing 'six-piece suit' into leadership. Let us this time round wisen-up and prioritise accountability and competence lest we give a hyena the permission to guard the sheep pen." "During the last election, you overwhelmingly entrusted the Jubilee party candidates with leadership positions. In the course of their term some of them started to register incompetence in their different tasks. As a result of that, do you now report your problems to the party?" she posed. Karua who is interested in the Kirinyaga governorship reiterated that a prosperous country can only be achieved if the voters scrutinise and choose good leaders. Speaking in Mwea on Friday, Karua said she would continue supporting the Azimio La Umoja movement whose manifestos are in sync with her Narc-Kenya party. In addition, she said the Azimio faction had a considerable number of trusted leaders who would protect public resources, thus one of the reasons she joined the movement. She expressed optimism that many more Kenyans would continue joining the political movement based on its good plan for the country. "I agree with their 10-point agenda including the plan they have towards the improvement of our healthcare system and the dispensation of funds to the underprivileged in the society."   -Edited by SKanyara