President Uhuru Kenyatta has advised Kenyans to elect steadfast leaders capable of uniting the country ahead of the elections. Uhuru was speaking in State house when he met Muslim leaders from across the country for Iftar. The president who has drummed up support for ODM party leader Raila Odinga said Kenyans should elect a leader who can offer solutions to challenges facing wananchi. “I want to tell you building a nation is not easy as most people think. It is not easy. There are so many storms and it requires A steady hand not a hand that looks at everything from a selfish point of view. Not a hand that rather than seek to resolve problems you seek to look for somebody to blame. “Now if you are looking for somebody to blame instead of fixing the problem how can you be a problem solver? You are a problem identifier. And this country requires a problem solver because there is no day where problems will cease, problems will continue to arise." Uhuru urged Kenyans to continue praying for their nation as they prepare to elect leaders who will strive to provide solutions to problems. “So you need people who are willing to pull together and solve problems because that is the only way a country develops. And that’s why I am requesting my Muslim brothers and sisters this time round and in this Holy month, I ask you, we pray for peace and unity,"  he said. “We pray that we get a leader who will unite us and continue tackling our problems." He drummed up support for Raila saying he was the best suited to inherit the country's leadership from him after the August polls. He said Raila was a genuine and mature leader with a deep sense of love for his country and a track record of political steadfastness. “I request you that we all unite under the umbrella of Azimio. And when I look left or right ,I see no other (person) who has the capability of uniting us, who has the capacity to forgive, who has the capacity to be calm and patient other than Raila," he said. "I am not saying that because I hate anyone. I don’t hate anybody but there are actions that human beings hate. Maybe one day we will forgive those others when they remember that patience pays, peace is important and humility is a great virtue. Pride is not the way to leadership but humility. One has to be humble to get leadership." Once again, the President likened the country's leadership to a relay race where one administration builds upon the foundation laid by others who were before them, and urged Kenyans to shun divisive leaders. “Let me say building a nation is not a one day affair but a continuous exercise. It is what we call relay race. You run and hand over the baton to your colleague. And Kenya is here and it will continue to endure even after we are long gone," he said. “Many have been with us and many have left and we thank them for what they did and the achievements they made." On development, Uhuru pointed out that Kenya had made tremendous progress in infrastructure . “We have peace, we have achieved some progress as we worked together. We are united and wananchi have the freedom and democracy to express themselves freely and most important they have the freedom of worship," he said. “The fact that any Kenyan wherever you maybe, whatever your colour, whatever your religion, whatever your gender, that you are free and feel that Kenya is your home. That is the basic essence of a society that is moving in the right direction. Muslim leaders among them Sports CS Amina Mohamed, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, National Chairman of the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (SUPKEM) Hassan Ole Naado, Sheikh Khalifa and Sheikh Abdullahi Abdi also spoke at the event. The Muslim leaders assured the President of their continued support saying their immediate focus was helping the Head of State to cement his legacy of progressive and peaceful Kenya. The event was attended by several Governors, parliamentarians, Government officials and captains of industry representing all sectors of the Kenyan economy.