Rain or no rain, the final day of the Athletics Kenya national championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani was always going to be a hotly contested affair as athletes battled for tickets to the Senior African Athletics Championship in Reduit, Mauritius. Considering that only the first two finishers in each category were to earn their place on the plane to Mauritius, it is little wonder that everyone gave their all to cross the finish line first. The continental showpiece, postponed last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is the first of a crowded track and field season for many athletes, which also includes the World Championships (Oregon, USA), Commonwealth Games (Birmingham, England), World Continental Tour and the Diamond League series among others. The first two days of the competition had set up interesting storylines in most of the categories as various giants and upstarts were primed to collide in the finals. The result was a carnival atmosphere as the fans in the stands couldn’t help but shout themselves hoarse in awe and praise of the entertainment that was being doled out on the track and field. Various teams/regions also brought their cheering squads each of which tried to outdo one another in terms of inspiring their athletes. And when the excitement and enthusiasm seemed to die down, the Kenya Prisons band was at hand to jolt everyone back to life with their rendition of some of the past and present music hits. One couldn’t have asked for a sweeter icing on the cake than the men’s 4x400m relays, where the National Police Service recovered in the last lap to upstage Kenya Defence Forces and take the national crown. It was a moment that had fans on their feet in ecstasy as they watched the drama unfolding in the ultimate race. After a difficult Covid-19 period during which most sporting activities were held behind closed doors, an A-class event was the least athletics purists could have asked for. The same stadium will host the third edition of the Kip Keino Classic in one week’s time. On the strength of the national championships, Kenyans should look forward to an action-packed weekend on May 7.