A group of youths from Murang'a have raised concerns over the diminishing numbers of mountain bongos in the country. One of the largest category of antelopes, mountain bongos are characterised by a reddish-brown coat, with black, white and yellow markings. The critically endangered animal also has long and slightly spiralled horns and lives for up to 20 years. It inhabits the Aberdare and Mt Kenya forests. In the country, the specie has less than 100 animals remaining with the dwindling numbers blamed on destruction of forests and poaching. Murang’a Youth Bunge chairperson Martin Nduati said the animal could become extinct if adequate measures are not put in place to preserve it. He said the group will work with 2,000 youths to help upscale conservation of local forests and preservation of the animal in partnership with World Forest Organisation. “Such animals are important to the country because they serve a pivotal part in our eco-tourism,” Nduati said. He added that it would be wrong for Kenyans to sit back and watch the animal pushed to extinction. Ensuring forests are conserved is one of the ways of providing a conducive environment for the animal to procreate and thrive. Nduati, however, said activities geared towards conserving the environment have been limited to planting trees. He reiterated the need to protect natural forests and water resources, adding that the younger generation should be taught about the values of ecologically suitable local species. Nduati urged the government to take stern action against poachers who have been preying on the animal for its hide. During the launch of Tulinde Bongo conservation project in Murang’a town, Nduati said the youths will embark on a campaign to sensitise communities living near forests. They will educate them on the need to conserve them and the dangers of degrading them. Mary Wambui, another youth, said the animal is not widely known because it is not as commonly sighted as other animals. “We will start with the Aberdare ranges and ensure as many trees as possible are planted and talk to residents to ensure they are on board,” she said. She appealed to the government and private organisations to support efforts to preserve the animal, saying environmental conservation should be taught in schools  to entrench the virtue into children. Wambui asked the government to support youths making efforts to protect the environment. She urged them to involve them while making key decisions pertaining to the environment as a way of helping to curb climate change. “Youths can influence change as they have the advantage of technology and that is why we have come together as Murang'a youths,” she said. Wambui said youths are increasingly concerned about the negative impacts of climate change. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)