More than 6,000 participants from over 40 water companies across the country will participate in this year's edition of Water Service Company (WASCO) games in Kisumu. The guests have started trooping into to the lake region in readiness for the week-long event scheduled to start on Monday, April 18 to -22. They will compete in ball games, darts, chess, scrabble, athletes, choir, cultural dance among other sporting events. Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company (KIWASCO) Managing Director Thomas Odongo confirmed that around 44 water companies across the country have confirmed their participation in the event. Odongo noted that it's all system go as everything has already been put in place for the smooth running of the event. “Covid-19 protocols will be observed during the event to ensure both participants and spectators remain safe during the entire one week.” The theme of this year’s event is ‘Reduction of non-revenue water through community engagement and sports’ which resonates well with KIWASCOS's efforts to curb water wastage. Non revenue water (treated water which goes to waste) continue to pose a great challenge to the sector as about 45  per cent of treated water is lost nationally. Odongo said the sporting event will be used the participating water companies to educate users on water preservation. “We will use this forum to educate the public at the same time share the experiences by the water companies and ways in which users can aid us in reducing cases of non revenue water." Odongo said that members of the public should help reduce the occurrence of non revenue water by reporting cases of leakages, bursts and illegal connections. Already, various hotels within Kisumu County have been booked to capacity ahead of the event. Small scale traders have also secured spaces at the adjacent joints where the games will be held. Events such as ball games and choir competitions will be hosted at the Kisumu Polytechnic. Other games will be hosted at Agah Khan Hall, Mama Grace Onyango Social Center and Cosmopolitan.