A politician who is also a leader of a political party with dwindling fortunes in its strongholds is creating conflict in his own outfit. The leader has been directly swaying the party's elections board to issue nomination certificates in a manner that does not conform with the rules. In some instances, the leader forced the board to revoke the nomination certificate issued to the boss' area MCA. This was supposed to pave the way for the nomination of the leader's relative from his rural home as the party's flagbearer. It is alleged alleged there's a standoff in the party over many demands by the leader that are causing disquiet. *** Still on nominations, the National Elections Board of a major political party is in the eye of a storm. Reason? There are allegations of unfairness given the level of ticket cancellations. The Appeal Board is said to be dancing to the same tune that is likely to blot the outfit's efforts to redeem its image. Some politicians are claiming the two entities are holding brief for the party 'owner' who is now punishing people perceived as having questionable loyalty. There are indications, according to our moles, that some of the tickets that have already been issued, especially for MCAs' seats from the party's main stronghold, are up for cancellation. Only loyalists are being rewarded. *** A section of senior police officers were seen praying in a church asking for God’s intervention in a brewing standoff between one of their commanders and an appointing authority over a directive. The commander can’t make a decision and some of his juniors feel when the appointing authority will react it will be bad for the boss. This is because there has been a trend of indecisiveness in the service in some simple issues that have angered many. It is believed the commander fears implementing the directive for political reasons. Time will tell! **** A Jubilee honcho who lost in the party parliamentary nominations is up in arms over an alleged plan to throw out his appeal in favour of his opponent. The politician who feels he did a lot for the party when President Uhuru Kenyatta was purging rebel politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto instead of asking for a government appointment before he gives in. This is despite the fact that he has two relatives in senior government jobs. It is said that State House could have rejected the request and asked the politician to be content with the little he has to give other Kenyans an opportunity. However, the politician is not backing down. (Edited by V. Graham)