Politicians seeking elective seats in Kisumu Central subcounty have committed to keep peace during ODM nominations and the general elections. The aspirants who spoke during a joint security meeting at Mama Grace Onyango hall on Saturday pledged to foster peace and unity which they said was key for socioeconomic development. The meeting brought together elected leaders, aspirants, Kisumu Central subcounty security committee, Nyumba Kumi community policing, champion of peace and other stakeholders. It came ahead of ODM nominations scheduled for Tuesday, April 19, 2022. Several MCA aspirants from Market Milimani, Kondele, Migosi and Shaurimoyo Kaloleni wards were present. “We have had a fruitful discussion. In every election period, we have witnessed chaos but this time we want peace to help spur development,” Market Milimani MCA aspirant Faustine Omondi said. He commended the security team for engaging politicians on matters of peace and unity. Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda and his competitors Joshua Oron and Elijah Oburu promised to rally their supporters to preach peace before, during and after party primaries and the August 9 general elections. Oburu urged aspirants to work closely with the security team for the realization of peace and unity. He warned against using youths to fight political wars saying ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid outweighs other political ambitions. Kisumu Central deputy county commissioner Hussein Alaso accompanied by Kisumu Central subcounty police commander Anthony Maina and DCI David Sichangi chaired the meeting. Other officers present at the meeting were OCSs from the subcounty, assistant chiefs and chiefs. Hussein said they have resolved with politicians to shun violence and instead preach peace among their supporters. “For years, Kisumu has been known for violence but today we have agreed with politicians to have peaceful nominations and general elections,” he said. The politicians, he said, have agreed to rally supporters to ensure there is a peaceful elective process in the subcounty. The deputy commissioner said they have also engaged with boda boda operators in promoting peace and to shun political violence during nominations and upcoming elections. “We have appealed to boda boda riders not to be used by politicians to participate in violent activities or ferry perpetrators of violence,” Hussein said. He warned goons for hire that security agents are watching them closely and stern action will be taken against them. Maina pointed out that the security team is committed to having peaceful nominations and general elections. “Our objective of the meeting was to find best ways on how we can have a calm situation before, during and after nominations and August 9 polls,” he added. He, however, warned that they will not tolerate any form of violence in the subcounty. “We will not hesitate to take action against perpetrators of chaos. We will deal firmly with criminals. We did not come here to joke but to protect and provide security to citizens and their property,” Maina said. He called on aspirants to work in unison for the sake of peace noting that security was a collective responsibility. The police boss noted that they have a dedicated security team to respond swiftly to any eventuality. Maina further directed officers commanding stations (OCSs) to intensify patrols in their areas of jurisdiction for maximum security. He said every ward has at least one hotspot with the exception of Market Milimani. He cited Migosi, Kondele, Nyalenda and Nanga as some of the areas they will monitor closely during nominations and general elections. He said voters should stop crowding at polling stations after casting their ballot. “We have enough officers to man the polling stations and tallying centers. We don’t want to have ugly incidents like it has been reported in the past," Maina said. He said the heightened security surveillance is also meant to ensure a number of activities expected in the lakeside city are held under a peaceful environment. Apart from nominations, Kisumu will host water and sanitation companies (Wasco) from across the country from April 18-22 for the Wasco games. “So besides the nominations, about 4,000 visitors are expected in Kisumu so we have to be on top of our game,” affirmed the police commander. Kisumu City will also host the Africities Summit scheduled for May 17 to 21 with more than 8,000 delegates expected to attend.