Azimio la Umoja presidential hopeful Raila Odinga’s march to State House is unstoppable, Kitui South MP Rachel Nyamai says. She said her constituents should rally their support behind Raila’s candidature following his endorsement by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Nyamai who is seeking re-election under the Jubilee Party spoke on Sunday while addressing constituents at Athi, Mukuanima, Mutonya and Mbusyani market centres in Kitui. She said all indications are that Raila will beat his competitors at the August 9 General Election to emerge president. The legislator said the Jubilee Party on whose ticket she was elected in 2017, was playing a pivotal role in popularising Raila to ensure he wins. Nyamai said she is certain the Kenya Kwanza coalition presidential aspirant Deputy President William Ruto is no match for Raila. "In 2013 and 2017 I told you Uhuru will win the presidency and it came to pass. Now I am here to tell you Raila is Kenya's next president. Please give him your votes and you will not regret it," Nyamai said. The legislator also asked Kitui South residents to re-elect her so that she could further the development streak which the constituency has realised since she was elected in 2013. She said she is defending her seat on a Jubilee ticket because she has faith in the ruling party. Since 2013, she has beat the odds to be elected on other parties despite former VP Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper party’s dominance in Kitui. Nyamai who is the Jubilee deputy director of elections and member of the party's national executive committee said in Kitui, her constituency is a leading beneficiary of state projects. She attributed the developments to her closeness with Uhuru and the Jubilee government. “I have served you well since 2013 and still want to continue serving you for a third term. This is because Kitui South needs a committed and hardworking leader. I have so far proven that I am a dependable leader," Nyamai said. The MP said Kitui South is different from before she became a legislator. She said she can only attribute the development milestone she has attained to being in government since 2013. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)