At least five people were killed in separate incidents in Isiolo county as police announced plans to drive out cattle from some areas. Security teams say cattle is the cause of the conflict that has so far claimed up to 15 lives in two weeks. The first incident happened along Merti-Komu road where three men riding on a motorcycle were shot and killed. Police said the gunmen ambushed the three from behind before escaping without stealing anything. The officers said the victims were headed to a mining site. The second incident happened along Isiolo-Muriri road in Tigania West where two men were shot and killed while on a motorcycle. Police said the attackers also fled having stolen nothing from the victims. In Burat, two men who were on a motorcycle were shot and injured in another ambush. The incidents happened between Thursday and Friday and the bodies were moved to the mortuary. Police said they are also investigating an incident in which six camels were hacked to death by unknown people. The owner of the animals told police in Kibiru sublocation that 25 camels got lost the previous day before six were found dead, while the rest are still missing. Eastern region police boss Rono Bunei said they had deployed extra personnel to drive out animals that are seen to be part of the problem. “The animals are the cause of this conflict and for now we have decided to drive them away as part of efforts to find a solution to the issue,” he said. The latest incidents come two weeks after five people were killed by suspected bandits at the Meru-Isiolo border in clashes over grazing fields. The victims were slashed and shot dead as they slept in their homes. The incident happened between Gambela and Kandebene at the Meru-Isiolo border. The killings sparked protests with residents calling for action against the insecurity. The attack came a day after at least 25 camels were killed in an ambush by gunmen who escaped. Residents said a group of more than 100 assailants ambushed a sleeping Manyatta at dawn shooting and cutting the camels with panga. The area has had perennial troubles in the past days. Residents usually fight over border disputes and pasture. Two weeks ago, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i told the National Security and Administration of Justice parliamentary committee that 25 per cent of state security resources are committed to securing Isiolo, Laikipia, Samburu and Baringo counties. He said special units have been deployed to the counties. Matiang'i said the situation is aggravated by politics of expansionism, drought, rough and vast terrain and proliferation of arms sneaked through porous borders. “Political instability and troubles in neighbouring countries make it easy to access weapons. Perpetuation of retrogressive practices such as cattle rustling and moranism also worsen the conflict,” he said. The CS said the government is investing in infrastructure such as roads, water pans and dams to open up the region and encourage more settlements. “Investments in education, agriculture, health and social amenities are also being upscaled as a long term solution,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)