Name-calling and propaganda have dominated campaigns for the Muhoroni parliamentary seat as aspirants hunt for support ahead of ODM party primaries scheduled for April 19. Five aspirants are seeking to dislodge MP Onyango K'Oyoo who is serving his second term. K'Oyoo is seeking to defend his seat. He will be battling for the ODM ticket amid tough challenge from American-based educationist Omulo Okowa who has since relocated to Kenya. Other top contenders include Kisumu businessman Otieno Mc'Ombewa, cancer researcher Omolo Oliech, Uzima University don Joe Okal and former Masogo-Nyang’oma MCA Samuel Ong’ow. Omulo has accused his rivals of sponsoring propaganda to hurt his massive support among women and youth. He cited reports appearing in a Kisumu tabloid and dismissed them as the work of his opponents. He has accused rivals of sponsoring propaganda against him. Omulo is being seen as the frontrunner for the ODM ticket. He came into the limelight last year when he started accompanying ODM leader Raila Odinga during the former PM's Azimio la Umoja tours and is being seen as close to the party hierarchy. Ong'ow served as Kisumu county assembly majority leader between 2013 and 2017 when he lost his reelection bid. Mc'Ombewa ran against Governor Anyang' Nyong'o in 2017 and lost. He has shifted his ambitions to becoming MP. K'Oyoo has expressed confidence in defending his seat, saying his track record speaks for itself and expressed confidence in retaining the position. However, Omulo has accused the lawmaker of poor performance, citing failure to upgrade roads, build technical colleges and improve health facilities. “Muhoroni is a great place and with so much untapped potential-both human and natural. Muhoroni needs a competent leader with the capacity to push the people’s agenda," Omulo told the Star. K'Oyoo first won the seat in 2013 on the PDP ticket before he switched to ODM for his reelection in 2017. "I am popular because people believe I have policies that will change their lives. I will better articulate the people's agenda," Omulo said. Muhoroni is a sugar-belt constituency with five wards of Miwani, Ombeyi, Masogo/Nyangoma, Chemelil/Tamu and Muhoroni/Koru. Both K'Oyoo and Ong’ow hail from Masogo/Nyang’oma ward. Okal and Mc'Ombewa come from Chemelil/Tamu and Ombeyi respectively while Oliech and Omulo are from Muhoroni/Koru ward. Oliech says fixing infrastructure and pursuing a transformative agenda will better the lives of residents. “Muhoroni is a very wealthy constituency; it just needs a small jab to revive the lost glory. You do not have to pump money into Muhoroni," Oliech said. Mc'Ombewa believes he will trounce his rivals. “My campaigns will be issue-based. I want to transform the education sector, roads and empower youth and women,” he said. However, K'Oyoo remains a force to reckon with based on incumbency. The MP has left a mark in the education sector and empowered youth and women. He has been sponsoring students who perform well in KCPE exam and get admission to national secondary schools. Okal is a former Kisumu finance executive who faced hostility on the ground over his tenure at the docket. Respondents are angry over his handling of Sh1.2 billion waste management tender, whose award was quashed by High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule in 2014. The court held it was irregular.  Edited by A.N