Maria Bianchi leads a 14-man team to the CANA Zone 4 swimming championships starting tomorrow in Lusaka, Zambia. This will be Bianchi's first international major championship after superb performances last season where she excelled in the CANA Zone 3 event in Uganda. Bianchi took part in last month's Coast Amateur Swimming Association (CASA), where she smashed the 100-meter individual medley 14/15  record, clocking 1:11:53  to erase the previous mark of 1:1189 set by Emily Muteti. The Mombasa-based swimmer said she is relishing the prospect of competing against swimmers from the continent during the four-day event. "I'm excited ahead of my first international event of the year and I am really looking forward to it. I hope I get selected for the Commonwealth Games and other international events which are slated for this year,” said Bianchi Interim Management Committee(IMC) head of the secretariat, Kenneth Karani, expressed confidence that the team selected will do the country proud. “We are traveling with a small team but the swimmers selected have trained well and are relishing the challenge of competing against their peers on the continent,” added Karani. He said the squad was whittled down from 48 swimmers to 15 swimmers for the five-day championship. He thanked the Ministry of Sports for their support in availing tickets and accommodation for the swimmers. The swimmers were selected from the county swimming championships held last month at Kasarani. They have been training with their respective coaches and clubs for the last three weeks. Countries expected for the championship include hosts Zambia, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Tanzania, Angola, Mozambique, and Sudan. Squad: Macrine Kalombo, Joel Nyakundi, Nathan Matimu, Audrey Chebet, Ameya Rana, Marion Alala, Haniel Kudwoli, Germana Caffini, Maria Bianchi, Neo Olengo Angel Williams, Christie Kamotho, Imara Bella Thorpe, Evans Kanja and Jade Onderi. Management team: Rose Kariuki, Dr. Linda Thorpe, Vishula Patel, Tennyson Mwangangi.