Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter will face an acid test in the UDA primaries to be held in the constituency on Tuesday. The party primaries were postponed from April 14 following the death of aspirant Wesley Kogo in a road accident. Keter will compete against aspirants George Tarus, Benard Kitur, Robert Chepkwony, Irene Chemutai and Cherotich Lelei in the UDA primaries. Deputy President William Ruto's allies have accused the second-term MP of being a traitor and not a genuine member of UDA. They claim the MP has been a critic of the DP and only returned to UDA to seek re-election. But Keter said he had the right to vie for the seat through UDA and expressed confidence he would win. DP Ruto allies including Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, Soy MP Caleb Kostany and Nandi Governor Stephen Sang have asked residents to reject Keter during the primaries. “Keter has been concentrating on fighting the DP and does not deserve the backing from party members," Sudi said during Kogo's burial last Saturday. Keter’s critics have warned that should he win the primaries, they will gang up to field an independent candidate. Local activist Joseph Kirwa said residents will not re-elect Keter because he undermines the community and its leadership. “The DP must know that we will not accept Keter even if he wins the primaries,” Kirwa said. UDA also cancelled its primaries for Moiben MP position in Uasin Gishu county following protests by aspirants over anomalies. The primaries in the area will also be repeated on Tuesday. Benjamin Kibet, the county deputy returning officer, said the nominations would be repeated because of anomalies noted during the initial primaries on April 14. He said the party had put in place measures to ensure a free and fair exercise. During the primaries, the winner's certificate was erroneously given to an aspirant who came fourth during tallying.  Police had to use tear-gas to disperse rowdy supporters who stormed the constituency tallying at TAC centre in Eldoret. "The repeat will only be for the MP seat and not any other," Kibet said. He was with area party county coordinator Paul Kiprop. Kibet said the party was pleased with how the primaries were carried out in most areas. "The primaries have demonstrated that indeed UDA is the most popular and organised party in the county, yet it's the youngest," Kibet said. More than 10 aspirants took part in the primaries for the MP position in Moiben. At the tallying there was confusion with the two leading aspirants both claiming victory. Professional Phyllis Bartoo and former MP Joseph Lagat claimed to have won the UDA ticket for MP race in the area. Edited by A.N