Leaders from Garissa on Wednesday welcomed the launch of the Timiza Ugatuzi programme, saying it will help strengthen devolution. Speaking during the launch, Garissa county secretary Abdi Ali said the programme aims at strengthening devolution and governance structures through effective inter-governmental relations. “It will further help in effective county planning and enhancing engagement between county government and citizens in service delivery,” Abdi said. He said  it will contribute to effective intergovernmental policy to help counties formulate and contribute to public participation policies and legislation. The programme will also allow for digital technology approaches to strengthen progressiveness of the county. The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office-funded programme is being implemented by a multi-sectoral county team and partner organisation, Danish Refugee Council. "This programme has come at the right time when devolution is picking up in our respective counties. And so going forward we hope to see more accountability and engagement from the various partners,”  he said. Garissa Health executive Roble Nunow welcomed the programme, saying its focus on spatial planning would help reduce the rising land skirmishes being witnessed in the county. The county has in the recent weeks witnessed skirmishes, destruction of property and disruption of peace within the county that have led to the death of one person. The skirmishes led to a dawn to dusk curfew order by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. The government also immediately stopped sale of land, annexation, or construction in the disputed areas of Iftin, Waberi West and East locations in Garissa. Energy and Environment executive Habon Maalim asked stakeholders to do their best and ensure the programme delivered on its mandate. Maalim said the move will enable devolution continue to be a game-changer for the region. Also present were county assembly clerk Mohamed Santur,  Abdirashid Hussein and county attorney Ismail Dabar. (edited by Amol Awuor)