Thika MP Patrick Wainaina has dismissed as propaganda reports that Deputy President William Ruto has settled for one UDA aspirants for Kiambu governor seat. Wainaina, who has declared interests in the county’s top seat is expected to face former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu, Senator Kimani Wamatangi and Muturi wa Nduthi for the UDA’s ticket. The four have heightened their campaigns and have been crisscrossing the region wooing voters ahead of the primaries on Thursday. Reports had emerged that UDA led by Ruto had settled on Wamatangi. On Saturday, Wainaina said UDA upholds democracy and that the reports of Wamatangi being picked are just rumours to jolt the race. “No one has been told to step down in favour of any candidate. Our party believes in giving everyone their democratic space and that is why we will be participating in the Thursday nominations,” Wainaina said. The first time MP who exuded confidence of clinching the party ticket said that he is also ready to hold talks with any of his competitors who’s willing to deputise him. This comes as DP Ruto continues to broker deals between aspirants vying for top seats in counties. Recently in Nairobi county, Margaret Wanjiru shelved her gubernatorial bid in favour of Senator Johnson Sakaja. Wanjiru is going to run for the Senator seat. Karen Nyamu who was vying for the senator dropped her bid in favour of Wanjiru. In Kakamega the DP brokered a deal between Senator Cleophas Malala and Boni Khalwale. The two will now run for the governor and senate seats respectively. Ruto also mediated a deal between Kiambu speaker Stephen Ndichu and former Ngecha ward MCA Karungo Thang’wa. Ndichu dropped his senate seat bid and will now support Thang’wa. DP Ruto has been facing a hard time in settling on one aspirant for the Kiambu governor seat since most of his allies are in the race. He is torn in between supporting  ans apirant from his party and former governor William Kabogo of Tujibebe Wakenya and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria of Chama Cha Kazi. The incumbent Governor James Nyoro, who will be vying on a Jubilee  has been leading the team spearheading the revival of the party in the region. Other aspirants who have declared bif for the governor seat include former Kiambu woman representative Anna Nyokabi, Mwende Gatabaki and Juliet Kimemia. (Edited by Tabnacha O)