Kenya Sports Shooting Federation president Shoaib Vayani believes the upcoming Kenya Open Championships at Shaba Range in Samburu will boost tourism in the Northern region. Vayani said the proximity of the range to Shaba National Park is an extra inducement for foreign shooters to come and compete in the June event. "Shaba is a very unique range in that it is situated next to the reserve. Because of its geolocation, we have many shooters from European countries inquiring about the competition. You can come, compete and proceed to check out the wildlife as you relax," Vayani said. He added: "The unique thing about this event is the sports tourism. Shaba National Park is home to wildlife, such as lions. We are all set to go. We have sent invitations to 106 countries through the international federation and we are getting more entries by the day." Countries that have thus far registered include South Africa, Zimbabwe, and several European countries. This is the first time Kenya will be hosting this global International Practical Shooting Confederation event after hosting the International Defensive Pistol Association Africa championship at Kirigiti, Kiambu last year. Vayani is optimistic this is just the beginning for the country as far as hosting major sports shooting competitions is concerned. "The range is only one year old but is of international standards. It is a unique one located in the middle of wildlife. Hopefully, we can host the World Championship for levels four and five. This year, we are privileged to be hosting a level three tournament, which will be huge for us," he said. Echoing his comments, the project manager at Shaba Range, Joseph Rutto promised competitors an out-of-the-world experience when they arrive in the dusty region in June. "Kenya is highly endowed with wildlife and at this event, we will be giving our guests and shooters an experience beyond the championships and that is what Shaba provides,” Rutto said. The two were speaking over the weekend during a test event at the range as part of preparations for the open championship. "We were working closely with Chalbi Shooting Club to undertake a technical evaluation of the range...to see what needs to improve before June," Vayani said. The federation has also been running monthly competitions as a build-up to the event and also as an opportunity to identify probable players to represent the country at the World Championship in Thailand, later this year.