Nairobi county assembly senior staff, who were facing the sack and demotion due to how they were employed, have been spared. On Tuesday MCAs approved a motion to rescind the decision, to fire the 18 senior officers, taken in October last year. The sacking was to happen following recommendations by the Justice and Legal Affairs committee. In a motion moved by Minority Whip Peter Imwatok , the MCAs  agreed to reverse the decision they took last year as well as remove the records adopting the report. “Mr Speaker, you are correcting what was not right because you know we are a House of rules and procedures,” he said. The Justice committee report had flagged the Nairobi county assembly service board for promoting and appointing junior officers to higher positions without qualifications. The report indicated that in 2020, the board had irregularly moved unqualified junior officers to managerial positions contrary to the law. The committee said those on short-term contracts were given permanent and pensionable terms. The committee chaired by Joseph Komu, was investigating an inquiry  from a statement on alleged unfairness, discrimination and irregularities in the administration of staff at the assembly. The investigations came at a time when the assembly had fell behind  over former promotions and intended recruitments of at least 28 senior officers. A planned advertisement in August last year was seeking to internally recruit 28 senior officers to replace those who were demoted. It resulted in a fallout among administrators. Some of the job designations to be filled were director accounting services, principal clerk assistant, legal clerk, senior Hansard editor, director human resource development, chief security officer, senior ICT officer among others. However, Sheila Munubi on August 19, 2021 filed a petition before the court which was certified as urgent. Orders by Justice James Rika barred the board from interfering with the current organisation structure at the assembly as well as receive any applications on the vacancies. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission was also dragged into the matter by instituting investigations into the conduct of former and current members of the board. They were summoned by the agency to record statements. EACC  requested the then county assembly Acting clerk, to submit the new staff structure adopted by the board following a review by Deloitte and harmonisation of the Public Service Commission. Also, the board’s resolutions on the adoption of a new structure and internal advertisement for the 28 positions were required for submission. The anti-corruption agency also requested for a confirmation whether there was any other structure approved by the board apart from the one submitted by Deloitte. The clerk was also asked to submit the Salaries and Remuneration Commission advisory on review or creation of any other new structure and any other relevant document. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)