Save Kenyans from more exploitation, a group of Central Kenya clerics has urged Parliament. They said the Sh3.3 trillion budget read by National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani two weeks ago will further burden Kenyans. “The cost of living at the moment is unbearable for most Kenyans. We are being taxed right, left and centre," said Bishop David Thagana of Glory Outreach Assembly Church. "Yet the budget is seeking to add more taxes, especially on food products. The buck is now with the MPs to pass it or review [the 2022-23 budget] to favour mwananchi.” The budget proposes 16 per cent VAT on maize, wheat and cassava flour, which, the clerics said, will increase the prices of common items used daily by poor Kenyans. The clerics spoke in Juja during preparations for a mentorship programme for pastors titled ‘Heart for Pastors’ to be held next month. “We are already suffering from economic inflation and many challenges. This is why we are pleading with lawmakers, whom we sent to Parliament to represent the interests of the common man, to ensure that the cost of living is lowered,” Thagana said. He said parents have been pushed to the wall and the church is concerned many will struggle to take their children back to school later this month. “We are therefore pleading with the Ministry of Education to consider reducing school fees because most parents are struggling to put food on the table. The situation is very difficult,” the bishop said. Thagana urged lawmakers to campaign less and address the plight of wananchi. “It pains to see most of our leaders focus on their campaigns and spend millions while poor Kenyans are sleeping on empty stomachs," he said. "We urge them to prioritise the plight of millions of Kenyans who are suffering. Elections will come and go.” Pastor Phyllis Wangechi said the high cost of living has driven many Kenyans into depression and led to an increase in family disputes. “This is why families are breaking up because one feels they can no longer sustain their families. Wrangles within the families have also increased, with couples [now] killing each other," she said. "The situation is dire and we ask our leaders not to worsen it. We want them to ensure that the budget won’t inflict more pain on us.” The clerics also urged politicians to watch their utterances to avoid shattering the peace Kenya enjoys. “We are witnessing heated exchanges between politicians of different alliances, which is slowly creating animosity between their supporters said Pastor Karanja of Happy Church. "This is raising the country’s political temperatures and disturbing the peace. We are pleading with our politicians to avoid making utterances or engaging in political wars that would disrupt the country’s peace and tranquillity.” Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya