Environmental experts have said most counties are sitting on a ticking time bomb unless they swiftly address garbage problems. Environment Institute of Kenya chief executive Linda Munyao said leaders must be innovative in finding solutions to solid waste challenges. "So dire is the situation that you find waste water freely flowing  into water streams. This should be a concern to all of us," she said. Efforts by stakeholders to tackle environmental conservation challenges also appear to be slowly punctured by funding gaps, Munyao said. "No problem can be adequately addressed without money," she said. The EIK boss was speaking in Kisii on Thursday during the launch of the Nyanza chapter for the agency. The event drew dozens of environmental experts, among them university dons and scholars. Former National Environment Management Agency chairman Prof Ratemo Michieka spoke on "wanton destruction" of wetlands. He cited wetlands in Kisii and Nyamira, which are under great threat due to pollution. "We need experts to raise their voices more in calling for conservation," he said . "Wetlands are critical to human and planet life and we must  put our best foot forward in safeguarding them or perish," Michieka said. Despite their essential role in global climate regulation, wetlands remain undervalued by policy and decision-makers in national plans, he said. Approximately 35 per cent of the world’s wetlands were lost between 1970 and 2015 and the rate is accelerating annually since 2000, a United Nations report reads. The losses have been driven by mega trends such as climate change, population increase, urbanisation, particularly of coastal zones and river deltas and changing consumption patterns to land and water use. Michieka also raised alarm on solid waste uncollected for days in most counties. He also urged county authorities to improve garbage collection, saying the waste is not only an eyesore but also a health hazard. Nema Kisii director Ronald Ofula accused the county of poor handling and management of garbage. "We have raised our concerns regarding this matter since 2019 and we are not going to tire until there is sanity," he said. Retired environmental expert executive Samson Bokea asked for more information seminars at the grassroots to assist people understand the value of environmental conservation. "Nowadays you find a water engineer claiming to be an environmental expert. We can only get serious if we get rid of them, experts should be  allowed to play their role where they are needed," Bokea said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)