Deputy President William Ruto has intensified efforts to strike consensus among aspirants seeking various seats on UDA ticket ahead of the high-stake primaries next week. In the last five days, the DP has brokered at least eight political deals from his Karen boardroom in apparent effort to evade protracted primaries that could break up the party. Previous party primaries have often been marred by chaos and violence thus the decision by popular parties to adopt alternative methods of picking aspirants. ODM, whose previous primaries have been rocked by chaos, has also embarked on boardroom negotiations to escape the violent nominations. Consensus is among the four options provided for in most party constitutions to identify candidates. Others are elections by delegates, direct nomination and universal suffrage where all registered party members participate in elections. “I want the members of UDA to recognise that the party constitution and nomination rules provide that consensus is an option of arriving at a candidate,” Ruto said. The DP disclosed that UDA has also employed opinion polls and other parameters to gauge popularity of its aspirants and identify flagbearers for the August 9 polls. On Friday, the DP brokered a political deal between Kiambu county assembly speaker Stephen Ndichu and former Kiambu Transport CEC Karungo Wa Thang’wa for the senate seat. Ndichu stepped down for the youthful Wa Thang'wa. “We laud the sacrifice of Kiambu speaker Stephen Ndichu who has agreed to step down in favour of Karungo Wa Thang'wa in the senator race ahead of UDA nomination,” he said. This came hours ahead of the DP's tour of Kiambu on Sunday. This will be the second time the DP will be visiting Kiambaa after his party won the parliamentary seat early last year. On Sunday, Ruto will be expected to hold several stops over in Kiambaa and Kikuyu constituency where Njuguna Wanjiku (Ka Wanjiku) and Kimani Ichungwa will be the host. Last month, the deputy president held a mega rally in Uhuru’s home town, Gatundu South where he drummed support for his candidates and his presidential bid. The DP will attend a church service at ACK Muongoiya before holding a series of meetings with local leaders as well as grassroots leaders. He said that the DP will be accompanied by Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), and Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), and a host of aspirants in Kenya Kwanza alliance. “The deputy president's visit in Kiambaa has been confirmed and we are ready for him, his tour in Kiambu will confirm the commitment he has for his supporters," he said. DP will tour Kiambia (junction), Banana, Limuru, Thigio, Ruthigiti, and finally Kikuyu town. Ruto will use his visit  to rally Kiambu electorate to support the UDA and its aspirants during the nomination exercise. The DP has sustained an aggressive campaign to build consensus among aspirants from various counties to avert acrimony ahead of next week's nominations. On Wednesday, the DP hosted aspirants for North Mugirango parliamentary seat where incumbent Joash Nyamoko was picked to defend the seat. They also agreed to support Mose Nyambega for Nyamira senator. On Tuesday, Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal pulled out of the senate race in favour of incumbent Steve Lelegwe. The outgoing governor has been absorbed in the DP’s presidential campaign team. Earlier, the DP chaired an aspirants meeting for Kipipiri MP seat where East Africa Legislative Assembly MP Wanjiku Muhia was picked to face National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya of Jubilee. Francis Chihi dropped his bid in favour of Muhia. In Ukambani, Yatta MP aspirant James Mutiso aka Kissinger dropped his bid in favour of Anastacia Muendo. Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi also brokered a deal between Charles Matoke of ANC and Ezekiel Machogu of UDA for Kisii governor seat. Matoke stepped down for Machogu in a bid to enhance the Alliance’s bid to clinch the seat. “We also applaud Okeng’o Joel Nyambane of UDA for ending his Senatorial ambition in support of Joash Maangi (UDA) who is also the deputy governor,” the DP had said after the meeting. Further, Ruto mediated between Munene and Kamau Murango for Kirinyaga senatorial seat. “We also salute Muchiri Njeru who has chosen to shelve his interest in the Kirinyaga Central parliamentary seat to support Gachoki Gitari,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)