First Lady Margaret Kenyatta held talks with Cuban Ambassador to Kenya Juan Manuel Rodriguez Vazquez on collaboration between Beyond Zero Initiative, and Cuban organisations. The Cuban envoy, who was accompanied by his wife Yrasema Lilian Moret Ascota paid a visit to the First Lady at the State House. The First Lady in formed her visitors that Beyond Zero was open to collaborate with Cuban organisations in the promotion of social justice and development targeting children, women and vulnerable communities. She was briefed on the findings of a fact finding mission to Cuba by delegation from her office and Beyond Zero that visited Cuba in June 2021. The aim of the mission was to draw lessons on the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and Syphilis, and related community health interventions. The Kenyan delegation said the prioritisation of investment in community health by the Cuban government with a key focus on disease prevention, child and maternal health, research, and vaccine development which the team said could be replicated in Kenya. In his remarks, Ambassador  Vazquez said the Cuban Women Federation, which he described as being similar to women movements in Kenya and which played a significant role during the Cuban revolution, plays a central role in the country’s socio-economic and political life. The Cuban envoy lauded the First Lady for her involvement in the promotion of children and women welfare through her Beyond Zero initiative. He added that the two organisations can cooperate in a variety of areas to advance gender, and social development in Kenya. “The Cuban Women Federation is mainly involved in advancing women welfare, gender balance and social development which are good grounds for cooperation,” Vazquez said. He further said that the federation was ready to partner with the Margaret Kenyatta Institute for Gender and Social Development. The meeting was also attended by Chief of Staff in the Office of the First Lady Constance Gakonyo, Beyond Zero Technical Advisor Jane Kiragu and the organization's Coordinator Angella Langat and the Director of Administration in the Office of the First Lady Eva Maina.