Disquiet has hit the UDA team in Mombasa after selection of aspirants who will fly the party's flag in the August 9 general elections. Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday said they reached consensus and picked former senator Hassan Omar as their governor aspirant, Khamisi Mwaguya (senator) and Fatma Barayan(woman rep). “The parliamentary slots will be filled by Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Mbarak Hamid (Kisauni), Karisa Nzai Mnyika (Jomvu), Isaac Malilah (Changamwe), Omar Shallo (Mvita) and Mohamed Mwahima (Likoni).  Hongera,” Ruto tweeted. However, the Star has learnt that there was no consensus. Instead, the aspirants were subjected to emergency opinion polls conducted by a firm through random SMS interviews. Some of the disgruntled aspirants have quietly disputed the opinion polls saying they were not scientific and favoured particular leaders. “How can an opinion poll be conducted on 500 or 800 people within hours? Is that even scientific?" a disgruntled member said. "Again, the disparity in the last two opinion polls is just too big to be the  true reflection of things on the ground." Some of the aspirants are already looking for different parties in the Kenya Kwanza coalition to revive their bids. Ruto is expected in Mombasa on Friday where he will further engage the aspirants and try to pacify those disgruntled. After failing to reach consensus at the English Point Marina in Mombasa on March 27, Ruto said other means would be used to determine UDA hopefuls. The aspirants for the senate, woman rep and MP seats were called for interviews at the Hustler Centre in Nairobi last Friday and Saturday. After the interviews, an opinion poll was conducted. In the polls, Mwaguya led Mohamed Amir in the race for Senate. He had 35 per cent against Amir’s 11. The two were the only contestants for the UDA senate ticket. Woman rep aspirant Miraj Abdullahi got 22 per cent, Afiya Rama (12 per cent), Barayan with eight and Ilhan Taisir had five per cent. In Likoni MP contest, Mohamed Mwahima, son to former Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima, had 19 per cent, Hassan Domoko (12 per cent) and former Likoni MP Suleiman Shakombo (nine per cent). For Mvita, Hassan Sumba led by 13 per cent with Shallo getting 9 per cent. Malilah led the polls for Changamwe MP seat. Some UDA bigwigs were unhappy with the results and called for another opinion poll to be conducted on Tuesday. “We don’t know what criteria was used and how the sampling was done. We don’t know if those who were interviewed are from Mombasa or Malindi and are they UDA members? We were only told the results,”  another disgruntled member said. The last opinion poll was conducted on Tuesday from 11am and the results were issued on Wednesday morning. In the Wednesday results, Mwaguya maintained the lead but with a reduced margin. He had nine per cent against Amir’s eight per cent. Barayan came up with 28 per cent against Abdullahi’s 26. Mwahima maintained the lead with 9 per cent. Abdullahi said she accepts the party position and will support Barayan to  win the seat. According to sources, she has been drafted into Ruto's presidential  campaign team. “She has been put on the list of UDA MCA nominations,” a source told the Star. However, Abdullahi neither confirmed nor denied the reports saying she is still committed to UDA. “What matters is that we push UDA so we can win many seats and ensure Ruto is elected the fifth president of Kenya,” Abdullahi said. Afiya Rama, who was contesting for the woman rep seat, said she is looking for another party in Kenya Kwanza coalition. “The poll was a sham. I am looking for another party. Let the people decide,”she said on phone. “I talked with Ruto and he said so long as it is within Kenya Kwanza he has given me his blessings." Amir said games were played “but it’s okay, my story is very complicated.” He said he is still in talks with his advisers on the next move but assured his supporters that the journey continues. “I will issue a statement on my next move on Friday or Saturday. We will soldier on, we are not going back,” Amir said on phone. (Edited by Tabnacha O)