ODM leader Raila Odinga has called on his Luo Nyanza residents to embrace women's leadership and avoid any form of discrimination targeting the female gender. Raila argued that any negative statements aimed at women seeking political positions are discriminatory and derogatory to the female gender. He said society cannot achieve real development and adequate transformation if one gender is being discriminated against. “Our people should understand that women also play a very integral part in society. We can’t grow if we keep on subjecting biases to the female gender,” Raila said. Speaking on Monday at the burial of immediate Kenya's ambassador to Qatar Ambassador Paddy Ahenda at Kasewe village in Kabondo Kasipul constituency, Raila asked residents especially men to refrain from chauvinism behaviours. The ODM leader has been on the receiving end of criticism from a section of residents over his choice of Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga as the ODM flagbearer for the Governor seat. Dissatisfied members of ODM in Homa Bay have criticized the party consensus method used to pick a governor candidate for the August 9 general election. Before Wanga was handed the party ticket, aspirants like Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Suba South MP John Mbadi, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Kuppet secretary-general Akelo Misori and former county secretary Isaiah Ogwe are said to have met and agreed to support her. Raila chaired the meeting which Governor Cyprian Awiti also attended. The meeting, however, was not attended by aspirants former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero and businessmen Louis Ogingo. On Monday, Raila told politicians who opposed Wanga's candidature to stop criticizing her based on the regional clan she hails from. Wanga comes from Kano clan in Kisumu county and is married in Kochia in Homa Bay County. Previously, Wanga had complained about her political opponent who she claimed had been telling her to return and contest the governorship seats in Kisumu. But Raila came in defence of Wanga saying that such criticisms are inconsequential. He said women should be given the opportunity to showcase their ability and strength. “I hear some of you murmur that Wanga is just a woman who was exchanged with cows. I tell you that Wanga has the ability to develop Homa Bay better than those men if given the opportunity,” Raila said. The Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate asked residents not to allow politicians with personal interests to divide them along their clans. Luo Nyanza consists of four counties like Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya and Migori. Raila told men to have respect for women on grounds that they also have the ability to ascend to political leadership, adding that only fools promote division on the basis of gender. “Don’t be cheated that there are Luos of South Nyanza and those of central Nyanza. Luos have a common origin and that’s explained very well in our history books,” he added. Present were CS Raphael Tuju, Governors James Ongwae (Kisii), WycliffeOparanya (Kakamega), Awiti (Homa Bay), EALA MP Oburu Oginga, SenatorMoses Kajwang (Homa Bay), Wanga, and a dozen of MPs like Millie Odhiambo, Eve Obara, Lillian Gogo and Babu Owino. Tuju called on Nyanza residents to focus on unity and rally behind Raila's presidential bid. He urged them to turn up in large numbers and vote for Raila for president. “Let party nominations anger not divide our attention. We should focus on the bigger picture,” Tuju said. During the event, the governors called on residents to vote for the party candidates as well as Raila for the presidential seat. “We want Nyanza to be painted orange during the general election,” Ongwae said.