All eyes are on National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani who is expected to read the 2022/2023 budget The budget is Sh3.31 trillion. This is 4.8 per cent more compared to the Sh2.9 trillion budget for the 2020/21 fiscal year. National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani will deliver the budget proposals on April 7, 2022, from 3:00 pm at the National Assembly, Nairobi. The Budget comes two months earlier than the usual June date. This is to allow sufficient preparation for the August 9 general elections. The budget will be the last under President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime. It will cover expenditure for the period between July 1, 2022, to June 31, 2023. The national government will take the biggest chunk of the monies- Sh2.07 trillion. The majority of national government expenditure will go to the Executive – Sh2.01 trillion. Parliament will take Sh38.4 billion. Judiciary will get Sh18.8 billion. County governments will be allocated Sh370 billion as sharable revenue. Some Sh24.7 billion will go to the fuel subsidy fund to cushion Kenyans against rising fuel prices. The Consolidated Fund will take Sh864.1 billion. The Consolidated Fund is the fund that keeps the national government and the county government running. The Controller of Budget is mandated under Article 206 (4) of the Constitution of Kenya to ensure that the fund is utilised in accordance with the law. The Equalization Fund will take Sh7.1 billion. Conditional grants to counties are pegged at Sh57 billion. The Budget will prioritize the completion of key infrastructural projects, particularly under the Big Four Agenda. These include the completion of 4,450 kilometres of roads and construction of 45 kilometre Rapid Bus Transit line, erect 60 BRT stations and acquire eight BRT buses in efforts to decongest the city. The funds will also cater for the connection of at least 750,000 new customers to the national grid and post-Covid recovery and policy interventions supporting economic recovery. Supplementary Budget This budget will prioritize drought mitigations measures. Department for social protection will receive Sh2.4 billion for cash transfers to households in drought-stricken regions. The Ministry of Defence will get Sh1.4 billion for Kenya Meat Commission for a livestock uptake programme to cushion pastoralists from losses. Department for devolution will get Sh1.2 billion for direct mitigation efforts such as water and relief food supply to hunger-stricken households. Some Sh950 million for police recruitment to boost national security ahead of August polls. A further Sh8.8 billion was allocated to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for adequate preparation for the general election. Ministry of Education allocated an additional Sh2 billion to complete the construction of CBC classrooms and ensure a smooth transition from the 8-4-4 system. Another Sh6.9 billion was allocated to the Teachers Service Commission to cater for teacher remuneration, training and related CBC implementation expenses. Parliament will have to vote to approve the proposal or ask the finance ministry to adjust its spending plans.