Nyeri Speaker John Kaguchia has urged the funeral committee of former President Mwai Kibaki to transport his body by road to allow people to bid him farewell. Kaguchia said transporting the body by air will deny people who were unable to travel to Nairobi, a chance to pay their last respects. The speaker urged the committee to make some trips around Nyeri town, Kibaki's home county, for the people to mourn him. He said they will send the proposals to the committee for consideration. Speaking at the county assembly on Tuesday, Kaguchia said they will hold a special sitting on Thursday for members to remember the life and times of Kibaki. Governor Mutahi Kahiga is also expected to attend the sitting. Kaguchia said House rules will be relaxed to enable more people to attend the special session and follow the proceedings from the public gallery. “Most people who want to record history or do some research look for information at the assembly. It is advisable to put the mourning in record because Kibaki has done a lot for Nyeri,” he said. Kaguchia said he was trying to reach out to other Nyeri leaders to organise some activities to remember Kibaki, independently from the main committee’s activities in Nairobi. “As the country holds the former President’s funeral service at the Nyayo National Stadium, we should have some activities going on in Othaya and Nyeri among other towns,” he said. The speaker said it was good for the county to have its plans. He criticised people who shouted down Kahiga after forming a team to help the national committee with the funeral plans. Kaguchia said it would have been advisable if the people of Nyeri had an upper hand in the send-off preparations. “The county, for instance, should explore the possibility of organising an event where residents can light candles in honour of the fallen former President,” he said. “It would have been good if we also had a mass.” A condolence book will be put at the assembly for the public to sign. He appealed to IEBC to consider shelving the issue of presidential candidates picking their running mates as that may water down the ongoing mourning. Kaguchia said the attention of the media and the public will be focused on the debate at the expense of mourning the ex-president.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris