Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has said he has no personal differences with Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi who urged the county boss not to run for Senate. The Senate promotes and supervises the counties, including scrutinising their audit reports and can call governors to appear and explain issues. Mandago said recent political differences with the MP resulted from his opposition to the governor's decision to run for Senate for Uasin Gishu. “What is happening is just political competition, otherwise, I have no personal differences with Sudi,” Mandago said during an interview with the Star in Eldoret on Tuesday. He said he had no problems with any other leaders or individuals around Deputy President William Ruto. “Whenever I want to see the DP, I can do so anytime and I have been in his campaigns. Currently, I am concentrating on my campaigns in Uasin Gishu where I also urge residents to vote for Ruto," he said. Mandago’s Senate run was criticised by Sudi and others who said he should concentrate on campaigning for the DP and look for a national position. UDA insiders say Mandago does not appear fully committed to the party and could do more to help financially. The governor rejected the criticism and said he had the right to run for any seat. He is considered a front runner for the UDA ticket where he faces a tough battle against lawyer Kipchumba Karoli, among others. Mandago has also urged youths not to cause violence or allow themselves to be exploited for others' political aims. He condemned the stoning of ODM leader Raila Odinga's airborne helicopter on April 1 in Uasin Gishu. The pilot almost lost control and the air shield was broken by stones. All politicians should be allowed to sell their ideas in any part of the country, Mandago said. The governor said Uasin Gishu was a peaceful county and urged residents to maintain harmony before, during and after the general election. "We have heavily invested in peace building and cohesion. We will not allow a few elements to take us backward," the governor said. "I urge the security apparatus to swiftly get to the bottom of the matter and be on the lookout during this highly charged period. County leaders plan a peace meeting in the area where the chopper was stoned. "We will go there to sensitive the community and urge them to keep peace throughout elections,"Soy MP Caleb Kositany said. Kostany said UDA would act against aspirants inciting youths. Bishops in the region have also condemned violence and urged harmony. (Edited by V. Graham)