ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid  got a boost in Kirinyaga thanks to a faction that has pledged to popularise his aspirations. The group identified as ‘Ushindi Kenya Azimio Mashinani’ has promised to do so while  pegging  its mission on the 10-point agenda guiding Raila's ambition. Led by its national chair Lee Karuri, the group said it has put in place structures that will ensure a successful civic education at the grassroots level. He said they will use  their members who are equipped with Raila's manifesto. “We have representatives drawn from various sectors like business groups, women groups, the youth, boda boda riders who will be able to reach to their colleagues as well as ordinary wananchi,” Karuri said. Speaking in Kutus on Monday, Karuri said they have since replicated similar groups across 10 counties in Mt Kenya region. He was thus optimistic the programme will bear fruit and consequently push Azimio’s popularity in the region. He said through the initiative, they  project to  garner over 65 per cent  of the total votes cast in the region in favour of a Raila presidency. “We want to impress upon the  residents in the region on the plan Raila has for them once he assumes the presidency," he said "That is how we will campaign for him and we are hopeful the region will be receptive.” The group's Mt Kenya chair Alfred Wanyoike praised the programmes and the dedication exhibited by the trainers. He said they will be collaborating with various political parties under the Azimio movement to undertake the exercise. “Judging by the dedication they have shown, we are confident they will be resourceful in this mission of scaling ‘baba’ to the top of the mountain," Wanyoike said. "Every leader has pledged to play his or her role dutifully and that will help change the long held misconception that Raila cannot command the region.” Ushindi Kenya Azimio Mashinani's leadership  received new members who defected from other political parties. The group’s Kirinyaga chair Reuben Ndegwa urged the residents to heed  President Uhuru Kenyatta's political guidance, stating that he cannot mislead them. “We as Mt Kenya residents can’t afford to be out of the incoming government. We therefore have to use our discretion wisely in the upcoming polls," he said. "That’s why we have taken it upon ourselves to enlighten our people through unpacking the 10-point agenda so as to clear all the lies that have been fed to them about Raila.” Laikipia deputy governor John Mwaniki expressed confidence that Raila will be voted in overwhelmingly and consequently become the fifth president of Kenya. He also lashed out at leaders who are disrespecting Mt Kenya leaders while on their campaign trails in the region. “They want you to disrespect your leaders while they cannot do the same while in their turfs," Mwaniki said. "Please don’t take such advice because they are hell bent on achieving a deep sense of hatred towards your leaders.” Mwaniki also called on his fellow politicians to conduct mature politics devoid of chaos and insults. He said Kenya must be protected selfishly by all Kenyans and placed above any political interest. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)