The decision by ODM to issue direct tickets to some aspirants in the North Rift region has been opposed. More than 50 ODM aspirants will be vying for various seats in Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu and Nandi counties. ODM branches in the North Rift have rejected plans to issue direct tickets to aspirants who are not known or have not been members of the party in the region. The region is Deputy President William Ruto's backyard and a UDA stronghold. Members of the Luhya community in the area have protested after Kiplombe MCA Ramadhan Ali was reportedly denied the ODM ticket to defend his seat. “I have heard that someone else has been issued with the ticket but I'm waiting for the official communication from the party headquarters,” the ward rep said. He has twice won the seat through the ODM ticket. Party supporters also staged protests in Eldoret, claiming that some party officials were planning to issue direct tickets to unknown people. This was after reports circulated that the party had issued a direct ticket to Turbo MP aspirant Richard Kemboi, leaving out aspirant Samkiz Mugo who has been hosting major ODM and Azimio rallies in the region. Kemboi told the Star he deserves a direct ticket as he is an ODM member and has the capacity to win the Turbo seat. But the move was opposed. The protesters said Mugo has invested heavily in campaigns for ODM and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. “If it's direct tickets then Samkiz Mugo deserves to get it,” Eldoret jua kali sector leader Andrew Ouma said. Mugo's supporters threatened to leave the party if he is not given the ticket. Turbo is the home constituency of DP Ruto and is represented by MP Janet Sitienei, who was elected as an independent candidate. The area, which covers a large section of Eldoret town, is largely cosmopolitan, and an aspirant from any of the communities in the area stands a chance of winning. During the last election businessman Kevin Okwara won in the Jubilee primaries but lost to Sitienei in the elections. Party coordinator in the region, Kipkorir Menjo, said they have many aspirants seeking to vie for various seats through parties allied to Azimio, especially ODM. He said ODM would determine the best way to ensure it has strong candidates to face off with those of UDA on August 9. Former CEO of Kenya Seed Company, William Kirwa, will be vying for the governor's seat in Uasin Gishu through Azimio. Edited by A.N