It was a big win for coalition parties after court dismissed a case seeking nullification of the Political Parties Amendment Act, 2022. Azimio is the biggest beneficiary of the judgement that was delivered Wednesday morning by a three-judge bench. In the case, Katiba Institute, Africog, the International Commission of Jurists and Kenya Human Rights Commission sued Parliament and the Attorney General for unlawfully passing the amendments that allowed coalitions. Justices Hedwig Ong’udi, Esther Maina and Daniel Ogembo ruled there is no unconstitutionality in the Political Parties Amendments Act. However, the judges declared Section 34 of the Political Parties Act, No 11 of 2011, unconstitutional. “Section 34 (f) is unconstitutional as regulation of political party nomination is the mandate of IEBC and not the Registrar of Political Parties,” the court ruled. Section 34 increases the powers of the Registrar of Political Parties to include regulation of political party nominations and to train political party election agents. The court said public participation that took place before the enactment of the impugned amendment was consultative, meaningful and reasonable. It further said the amendments cannot therefore be nullified on this ground. The court also dismissed the argument by the petitioners that the impugned amendment renders the principal Political Parties Act ambiguous, uncertain or vague. It was also a blow for the candidates who want to move to other parties as the court ruled they cannot party hop. “We find it impractical for the political party candidates to enjoy the same timelines as independent candidates," the court ruled. The court said this was "because, unlike independent candidates, the party nominations elicit disputes and a timetable which enables them to work on the activities and programmes.” The petitioners had submitted that the introduction of a coalition political party in the Political Parties Act has created vagueness, confusion and ambiguity in the statute, rendering it incoherent. The state, on its part, said the Act has no vagueness in the said definition, and there is no justification for the petitioner’s assumption that political parties cannot come together on account of a shared ideology. The court, therefore, ruled that the Constitution is based on the fact that there is a clear distinction between a political party and a coalition political party, in both their formation and operation. “The amendment clearly shows what the mind of Parliament was on the formation of a political party, a coalition and a coalition political party. There is no doubt on what Parliament intended,” the judges said. The court said, whereas there is no law in Kenya that bars amendment of electoral laws within a particular time, the country must consider the context and the period it took to come with the recommendation leading to the amendments. However, the court said the changes were made slightly more than six months to the general election, which resonates with the Kriegler recommendation. The court also ruled that it has not been demonstrated how the amendment on timelines will affect the elections. It also said these timelines are meant to enable the political parties, the candidates and the IEBC manage their timetable so as not to affect the election date. “We also observe that the interest of an individual cannot outweigh or override public interest,” the court said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)