Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) has renewed the partnership with the world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge as the Magical Kenya Ambassador. The partnership is part of the continued efforts by the board to leverage Kenya’s status as a global sporting powerhouse to market the destination to the world. Kipchoge was first signed as Kenya’s tourism ambassador in 2020, a partnership that saw the champion promote Kenya as a preferred tourism destination locally, regionally, and internationally through various campaigns. Speaking during the announcement at an event held at Karura Forest, Kipchoge said he is honoured to renew his partnership with Magical Kenya as its destination ambassador, noting that his love for Kenya makes the engagement more fulfilling to him. “I am very delighted to renew this partnership with Magical Kenya which has now become my family. It is such a great honour to be given the responsibility to represent my country as its Tourism Ambassador.," he said. "I have enjoyed this role which has also made me learn a lot about Kenya. For instance, in 2020, I was able to witness the great wildebeest migration, and today, I am at Karura forest which is an important conservation ecosystem in Kenya. I hope I can continue to serve my country in this role and also raise awareness of conservation and the beauty of Kenya.” Kipchoge added that the industry had suffered a lot during the Covid -19 pandemic and therefore required support from all Kenyans, especially during this time when it is looking forward to a comeback. Tourism & Wildlife CS Najib Balala said the partnership will not only focus on destination marketing but also on showcasing the country’s conservation efforts to the world. “Our journey with Kipchoge as destination ambassador commenced in 2020 after the Covid-19 pandemic was recorded in the country. "Kipchoge’s contributions to the country over the years have been important in ensuring that Magical Kenya is recognizable across the world. "His role as destination ambassador has been important, especially during the period when there was less travel. He helped in creating awareness about the destination as well as marketing and showcasing Magical Kenya to the world,” the CS said. “Today we kick-start the second phase of the partnership which will focus on conservation awareness as well as showcasing Kenya’s different offerings and different circuits that the world should know. "Kipchoge’s global profile, patriotism, passion for the destination, and conservation make him the ideal ambassador for Kenya and we hope that we can achieve this going forward.” Principal Secretary state department for tourism Zeinab Hussein said: “I take this opportunity to thank Kipchoge for taking up the role, Kipchogeinterfaces well between the local and international market which is important for the destination. We want to ensure that we arouse the interest of travelers from across the world,” said the PS This second phase will see Kipchoge visit more circuits to promote the destination as well as grace key Magical Kenya events that will give him an opportunity to get an interface with key stakeholders as well as enhance his influence to grow the sector. Kipchoge is passionate about conservation and fits into the sector’s agenda ahead of the implementation of the Cop26 declarations focused on  mitigating climate change.