ODM is facing a silent rebellion in Homa Bay county as residents threaten to reject the party’s aspirants in a protest vote. They say rejection is the only way to communicate their disgust with party primaries. Most MPs from Homa Bay were handed direct tickets with Woman Representative Gladys Wanga getting the governor’s seat ticket. Former Kasipul Kabondo MP Oyugi Magwanga, who was the frontrunner in the race to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti accepted to be Wanga’s running mate. Governor aspirants who were convinced by the party to drop their bids included Suba South MP John Mbadi, former county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata and Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori. The aspirants agreed to support the Wanga-Magwanga ticket but Kidero dismissed the meeting saying it was discriminatory. Only MPs Adipo Okuome of Karachuonyo and Martin Owino (Ndhiwa) were subjected to nominations. Both won despite voters claiming the exercise was marred with irregularities. Veteran politician Ogelo Asim from Wang’chieng ward in Karachuonyo said residents will only vote for ODM leader Raila Odinga and reject other ODM aspirants “because they were handpicked.” “We want to elect people who will serve residents and not party sycophants. That is why we are urging our people to vote wisely in August,” Asim said. The growing rebellion is working in favour of governor aspirant Evans Kidero, who is criss-crossing the region with the promise of a new Homa Bay. Jacob Odiwa from Suba North said the nominations opened the eyes of those seeking to run as independent aspirants in future elections. “It makes no sense to use your funds to campaign then your competitor is handed a direct ticket. It is better to lose in a fair  vote,” he said. Senator Moses Kajwang, MPs Ong’ondo Were (Kasipul), Lillian Gogo (Rangwe), Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul), Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town) and Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) were also handed direct tickets. Raila former aide Caroli Omondi was also handed a direct ticket to run for the Suba South parliamentary seat. Former  kisumu Roads executive Joyce Osogo won the primaries to fly the party ticket in the race for woman representative seat. Political observer Oloo Gor argues that many people are angry with the party and they are likely to engage in protest vote on August 9. “I see Homa Bay voting in protest on August 9 to teach ODM a lesson for going against their wishes. Most of the ODM candidates are weak,” Gor said. Homa Bay is one of the counties where ODM enjoys massive support. In the last two general elections the party won the governor, senator, woman representative and eight MPs seats. Out of 40 MCAs, 38 were elected on an ODM ticket. On Thursday, Gor said things may not be the same again because of how  the party conducted the nominations. The analyst said a lot of people who were shortchanged during the party primaries have since gone independent. Kidero was the first aspirant to declare he will vie on an independent ticket in protest, saying he was isolated when his rivals agreed to support Wanga. Kidero and businessman Louis Ogingo claimed they were not invited to the consensus meeting attended by Raila and Awiti. “Consensus meetings always bring all parties on board. The one my colleagues attended was neither inclusive nor consultative, so let us meet on the ballot on August 9,” Kidero said. Since Kidero announced he is going independent, the former Nairobi governor has received a number of defectors from Magwanga and Mbadi’s camp. A group of elders from Rachuonyo region led by former councillor Phares Ogada, Okinyi Rao and Caleb Ouko met in Kibiri and endorsed Kidero. The vote-rich Rachuonyo has three constituencies. They are Kasipul, Karachuonyo and Kabondo Kasipul. In his campaigns, Kidero accuses Wanga of being a project whose aim is to protect Awiti after he retires. Kidero is using medicine as his symbol and Homa Bay Manyien (New Homa Bay) as his slogan. “Homa Bay is endowed with lots of resources but it can’t achieve its full development potential due to bad leadership. Vote for me and let’s turn this county around,” Kidero said. Wanga has dismissed Kidero’s claims that he was not invited for the consensus meeting as mere propaganda. The woman representative said Kidero was invited but was a no show after they waited for him for more than two hours. Wanga also said Kidero wants to use the governor seat as a platform to succeed Raila as the Luo nation political kingpin. “You will not succeed by seeking sympathy votes after you boycotted the meeting. Kidero should come clear of his ambition for the Homa bay governor seat,” Wanga said. “What new thing can he bring to Homa Bay which he couldn’t do in Nairobi? Nothing.” Wanga has been engaging in a door to door campaign in a bid to woo back the disfranchised residents. In her campaigns Wanga says  she is the hope the Homa Bay people need for change. She has also dismissed claims that she will retain county officials from Awiti’s administration and protect them when elected. “Let’s focus on our agenda and avoid speculations. My hands are not tied and my leadership will ensure we have a fresh start,” Wanga said. Gor says ODM aspirants have an uphill task to convince residents to vote for them. He adds that the party failed to consider regional balance when sharing top political positions of the county. According to Gor, residents from Ndhiwa constituency are protesting because they expected to get the woman representative seat. “Ndhiwa has been neglected. Rachuonyo has both woman rep and deputy governor while Rangwe has governor and Suba has a senator,” he said. Gor accused ODM’s National Elections Board of failure to comply with its rules during nominations. “Political parties like Movement for Democratic Growth and othersare likely to overtake ODM in future should the trend of unfair nominations and regional inequality continue,” he said. However, another resident, Dickens Orenda said they will still vote for ODM aspirants. He said the current wave of independent aspirants will die down soon. “I believe people will cool down and vote for ODM aspirants. We’re looking at a bigger picture of voting for Raila as president,” Orenda said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)