Political analyst Peter Kagwanja has asked the Jubilee Party to ensure it does not issue direct tickets to safeguard its survival. Kagwanja, who is vying for the Murang’a Senate seat, said the forthcoming nominations have the capacity to kill or revive the party depending on the way they are conducted. He said there are rumours that some politicians have been handed tickets despite having competitors which he said is a recipe for chaos. Late last month, the party’s director of elections Kanini Kega said Jubilee would not be issuing direct tickets and that certificates would be issued after nominations. But Kagwanja said some people are reportedly walking around with certificates of nomination while others wait for the exercise. The aspirant will be battling it out for the party ticket with former Communications Authority chairperson Kembi Gitura. Others vying for the position include Hellen Kigia (UDA), Joe Nyutu (UDA), Stanley Karuri (Independent) and Pius Kinuthia (ODM). Lack of transparency during the exercise could weaken the party by denying it the right representation in both Senate and the National Assembly, Kagwanja said. “In 2007, PNU handed out direct tickets which saw retired President Mwai Kibaki fail to get enough MPs. The same thing happened with Jubilee in 2017 and the party almost died,” he said. “These nominations will not be business as usual. They will determine the future of the party and whether it can be taken seriously. People have to be the ones to decide who wins,” he added. Kagwanja took a jibe at Murang'a politicians who are members of the party who have been holding party popularisation meetings in various parts of the county. He said the party will not garner more supporters through politicians who conduct meetings with choppers and that Wanjiku wants leaders who interact with them at her level. “People want leaders who go to them and shake their hands not those who erect billboards then go to Nairobi and get certificates. We want to make our party strong and support our President and we cannot do that if we don’t get to the grassroots.” Kagwanja spoke as he awarded 30 youths sponsorship for technical courses at Michuki Technical Training Institute. The youths will undertake a one-month training and the one who performs best will be sponsored to further their education. The aim of the programme is to save the youths from idleness. Kagwanja said since 2015, he has also been working with partners to sponsor jobless degree holders for further education in China. So far, 30 have graduated and have since acquired well paying jobs, he said. “Even now, we will be giving 100 scholarships out of which seven will go to people living with disabilities while 23 will be given to special groups and the rest will be distributed to the wards,” he said. Kagwanja said it is unfortunate that there are graduates doing menial jobs such as hawking fruits and working as boda boda operators after failing to secure jobs.   -Edited by SKanyara