Murang’a farmers will remember former President Mwai Kibaki for reviving the coffee sector when it was on its deathbed. Kibaki released Sh3.4 billion in 2012 to pay debts that had been accrued by farmers from banks and cooperative societies. Out of the money, Sh1.2 billion went towards clearing debts owed by Murang’a farmers to cooperative societies. Before the government released the funds, many farmers were frustrated with the devastating payments they were receiving and had started uprooting their coffee bushes. Peter Kihungi, who was the chairperson of Murang’a County Council, said he was approached by farmers for help from the government. Kihungi said the farmers had been left out of another waiver amounting to Sh3.4 billion that Kibaki’s administration had issued and which went towards clearing coffee farmers’ debts owed to the Co-operative Bank. “Murang’a farmers had a very strong cooperative movement that was able to loan them money and they, therefore, did not owe any bank,” he said. Kihungi approached the then Co-operatives Minister the late Joe Nyaga and plans to offset the debts were started. The minister then presented the matter to the President. As Kibaki sought to popularise the new Constitution, he visited the leadership of Murang’a in which Kihungi presented a memorandum on behalf of farmers, detailing all the debts they had. “Kibaki told us the only debts the government could not help clear were personal loans and promised to have the debts settled,” he said. Soon after, farmers from other regions joined in and agitated for their debts to be incorporated into the waiver. “That is why the government released Sh3.4 billion which went towards clearing coffee debts all over the country,” he said. The debts, he said, had made farmers hopeless and would have ultimately caused its total collapse. This is because farmers would tend to their farms knowing they would not receive any form of payment as all their earnings were deducted to pay loans. “This is why those that still had coffee bushes by then now practice serious farming because they know they will get paid while some left the practice,” Kihungi said. Should the government not have released the waiver, Kihungi said the coffee sector would have been crippled within a few years despite being one of the highest revenue earners for the country. He said the debts were accrued from 1997 when the dollar fell sharply causing prices of commodities to nosedive. “Farmers would be paid up to Sh1 per kilo,” Kihungi said. He said farmers will always remember the late President because he gave them a fresh lifeline. Kihungi who is vying for the Kangema MP seat said if elected, he will help put in place legislation that will help streamline the sector and better farmers' pay. While lauding the government for the measures put to manage the sector, Kihungi said legislations affecting farmers should first get their views before being tabled in the national assembly.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris