ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has said that the Kenya Kwanza alliance team will not form a coalition political party. Mudavadi made his remarks on Saturday when the alliance signed a bidding agreement with the Democratic Party led by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Mudavadi's remarks came on the deadline day for joining or forming a coalition political party. "I want to make it clear that the alliance will not submit anything today so that there is no conflict or confusion. We are going in as a Coalition of Parties, and not a Coalition Party," Mudavadi said. Parties wishing to form a coalition political party were required to submit the required documentation to the Registrar of Parties latest April 9, exactly four months before the August 9, polls. Mudavadi said that the alliance wants to work with other parties and that will ensure that willing outfits are not locked. "As much as we work as a coalition, they must also stand out and have their identity, and that is why we are going in as a Coalition of Parties." He has said that the deadline for the formation of the Coalition of Political parties is May 9, 2022. Mudavadi also used the platform to hit out at the Azimio One Kenya Alliance, saying that it has been suppressing the small parties, denying them the opportunity to be heard. "Us in Kenya Kwanza, we're saying there is room for that recognition." The Saturday event was attended by Deputy President William Ruto and Ford Kenya party leader Moses wetangula among leaders allied to the outfit. The move not to form a coalition party now means the ANC, UDA, Ford Kenya and other parties in the coalition will have to ensure they win a significant number of elective seats in the August poll so that they can get the political parties' funds. The Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021, has given members of a coalition party a share of the political parties' funds regardless of their elective seats. The Bill provides that a total of 70 per cent of the fund be distributed proportionately based on the total number of votes secured by each political party in the preceding election. Another 15 per cent shall be distributed proportionately to political parties based on the number of candidates from special interest groups elected in the preceding general election. Ten per cent of the fund will be shared out proportionately to parties based on the total number of representatives from the political party elected in the preceding polls, while the remaining five per cent for the administration expenses remain.