Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima will run for Kakamega governor as an independent candidate after missing ODM and DAP-K tickets. Kutima, who has deputised Oparanya for two terms, ditched ODM for DAP-K a month ago after the party decided to give former Ketraco MD Fernandez Barasa a direct ticket for the Kakamega race. He was to face off for the DAP-K ticket with Lugari MP Ayub Savula but pulled out at the eleventh hour on Monday, claiming the primaries had been predetermined to fix him. Kutima said that he only pulled out of the DAP-K but was still in the race to succeed Oparanya in August. Kutima will contest with Nairobi based lawyer Michael Osundwa as his running mate. “I have met with my designate running mate and consulted widely and we have decided to run as independent to protect the dignity of our people because we carry their aspirations,” he said. “Kakamega requires tested and credible leadership and not decoys planted by individuals for personal gain,” he said. Osundwa said that they were ready to face their detractors head on. “They have frustrated us but I can assure them that we are going to ensure that the governor of Kakamega is a local chosen by people themselves and not imposed on them by disenfranchising others,” he said. Kutima said he was sure of bagging the seat since he has the good will across the county, adding that he will not give in to schemes by some selfish individuals who don’t care about the welfare of the people. Political commentator Martin Andati said that the ticket will heal the northern and southern divide and bring continuity and stability in the county. “The Kutima-Osundwa ticket will offer an alternative for the people to make a choice other than being forced to choose ODM or ANC,” he said. The Kakamega race will also feature Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who has been cleared by the ANC party, Savula who is the lone aspirant in DPA-K, United Democratic Party leader Cyrus Jirongo and Maendeleo Democratic Party leader Samuel Omukoko. Edited by Henry Makori