Azimio La Umoja  One Kenya flagbearer Raila Odinga has moved with speed to seal looming cracks in the alliance following demands issued by 8 parties in the outfit. In a statement on Thursday Raila’s spokesman Makau Mutua said the coalition Council, the top organ of Azimio, has been expanded to 11 members. This is to ostensibly include more members who feel sidelined in the making of key decisions in the outfit. “Party organs will not include party caucuses or alliances. There will be no zoning of the country for any political party," Mutua said in the statement. On the issue of Raila's running mate, the meeting agreed that the ultimate choice will arrive after consultation with all parties. “The matter of the running mate will be decided in consultation with partner constituent parties at the appropriate time,” Mutua's statement added. On Wednesday, eight fringe parties that are members of the Azimio One Kenya Alliance threatened to walk out if their grievances are not listened to. The warning came after key officials of the parties raised concerns over the lack of inclusivity and consultations in making key decisions in the coalition Among the issues raised by the group is the feeling that the Azimio leadership is made up of three parties including Jubilee, ODM and Wiper leaving out other members who the group say founded the coalition. The group has also lamented over being sidelined in the making of the coalition document, so much so that they have not seen the document yet they are being pushed to sign. "Coalitions agreement documents have not been shown to us and yet they are insisting that we should sign. We will not agree to this," Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua who read their joint statement said. The group also expressed reservation on alleged planned zoning saying they will not be a party to it. "Our candidates have already registered their candidature with our parties and they have an equal right to be on the ballot," the joint statement added. " There is an attempt to run nominations through zoning. Our candidates are already prepared to compete and zoning has no place in the current arrangement. The eight parties that Mutua said raised the grievances include MCC, Muungano, Kenya Reform Party, CCU, DAP-K, PPT, NARC, and Maendeleo Democratic Party.