The more than 9,500 public secondary schools in the country are ready for new double intake next year January, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association has said. In January, some 1.5 million learners who are under the new Competency-Based Curriculum will transition from Grade 6 to junior secondary school. This is after they sit their final primary school examination —the Kenya Competency-Based Examination — in November this year. At the same time, the final lot of more than one million of the Class 8 candidates under the 8-4-4 system will also be joining Form 1 after sitting their KCPE exam in November. It means that more than two million learners will be joining the secondary schools on January 2023. Kessha national chairman Kahi Indimuli said the secondary school principals are ready for the double intake. However, he said the national government should employ more teachers to manage the double intake. Indimuli was speaking on Wednesday during the third day of the 45th Kessha annual conference at Sheikh Zayed Hall, which was graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Others were Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha, his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. The government has embarked on training about 60,000 secondary school teachers on CBC ahead of the rollout of junior secondary school next year. Teaches Service Commission said the training will begin on April 25. Indimuli also said they are prepared for 100 per cent transition in both junior and senior secondary schools. Uhuru reassured education stakeholders that the roll-out of CBC is on course. He said schools will have more than nine million children learning under the new curriculum when they re-open next week. “My administration has progressively expanded the education infrastructure to accommodate the growth in enrolment," the President said. "This includes classrooms, desks and chairs as well as electricity. We are laying a firm foundation for our children that will not be shaken.” The government is putting up 10,000 new classrooms in secondary schools countrywide to accommodate the junior learners next year. President Kenyatta said 6,470 out of the 10,000 classrooms are due for completion by the end of this month. “The remaining classrooms will be completed in the second phase and handed over to the incoming administration,” he said. Emphasising the importance of CBC, the President urged teachers and parents to encourage children to embrace skill-based professions. He said the skills will allow them to use their God-given talents instead of relying on the diminishing ‘white collar’ jobs. On boosting education quality, the head of state said his administration has provided free books to every child and has now achieved a pupil to book ratio of 1:1 in all public primary and secondary schools. Recognising the centrality of teachers in raising education quality, President Kenyatta said the government has also invested in a robust teacher-training programme. It has also improved the budgetary allocation for teachers and introduced the internship programme within TSC. The President said the government has also supported a transparent and accountable promotions system for teachers and introduced a comprehensive medical cover for all teachers and their dependents. “I want to reiterate that my administration recognises the important role teachers play in advancing our development agenda,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)