Two organisations have rolled out a support programme for the youth to mitigate the adverse effects of Covid-19. The programme will support entrepreneurship and job creation in the informal settlements. This is through giving out equipment, tools and grants to a number of youth groups to help them run their businesses, generate income and create jobs. The post Covid- 19 recovery support programme started by the Youth Congress, in collaboration with Kenya Community Development Foundation, will provide opportunities for economic growth among the youth. The Youth Congress founder Raphael Obonyo said the Covid-19 sent shock waves across the entire world, with the youth bearing the brunt due to the disruption in education and employment globally. The Youth Congress is a non-governmental organisation that provides young people with a platform to express their issues. Obonyo said the youth in slums were the most affected compared to their peers as they work in sectors that were hit hard by the pandemic. “With more than 75 per cent of Kenya’s population under the age of 35 and a median age of 19, the country has one of the world’s youngest populations," he said. "Giving youth opportunities should be among the country’s most pressing priorities.” Korogocho and Mathare slums in Nairobi are among the beneficiaries of the programme, he said. The organisation has also been exploring  what can be done to ensure the interventions put in place are sustainable for the long-term. He called for more support for youth investment groups due to the high unemployment rates occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. Youth unemployment, he said, is a major issue even among the educated. “Youth are the majority among the unemployed Kenyans who have got no source of income. Out of every 10 unemployed Kenyans, seven of them are young people aged 35 and below.” Entrepreneurship is emerging as an appropriate solution to youth unemployment, following the reduced scope of the formal private sector and limited job opportunities in the public sector.  (edited by Amol Awuor)