Water shortage has hit Gatundu North villages following the closure of Kariminu River. Residents living in villages downstream have for the last five weeks been grappling with water scarcity since the impoundment began at the multi-billion Kariminu II dam Dam. The affected villages are Kariua, Gathanji, Igegania, Karuri, Kairi and Gatukuyu. Residents who spoke to journalists said they have been relying on the water for domestic use as well as for irrigation, adding that closure of the river has been a huge blow to their farming. Led by Chania MCA Martin Githaiga, the residents said they have been forced to buy the precious commodity at a high price as the shortage has given vendors a field  day. “The wells that we were relying on as an alternative have dried up due to the hot weather and we have been left with no choice but to buy water," Githaiga said. "Vendors are selling a 20-litre jeri can at between Sh50 and Sh80 which is way  too costly for us,” Githaiga said. He further said services at Igegania Level 4 Hospital have been disrupted by the shortage and that the hospital management has resorted to buying the commodity with water bowsers. “We are pleading with the dam management to stop closing the river completely and allow some water to pass for the sake of those living downstream,” the ward rep said. Albert Kimani, an arrow roots farmer from Kariua village, said he is counting losses following the closure of the river. “I rely on my farming to make a living but all my crops have withered since there is no water in the river and I cannot manage to buy water for irrigation," Kimani said. "I am confused on what I should do next. We wish the dam management could be releasing some water even if it is for a few days in a week." Regina Gitau, a poultry farmer, said their livestock farming has been dealt a huge blow, saying they have been buying the precious commodity at high prices. “The little profit we could have made from our farming is going to buying water. Remember the cost of feed is very high and we are only getting less or no profit from our farming," Gitau said. "The situation is dire and the relevant authorities should move with speed and address the menace.” Pauline Njeri, who hails from Mang'u village, said it is a disservice to Gatundu residents to completely block the river to impound water for pumping to other regions while subjecting residents to suffer. “I’ve been in this village for close to 45 years and we have never witnessed this kind of shortage even during dry seasons," she said. "We are not against water impoundment at the dam, but all we want is for the management to be mindful of thousands of residents who are dependent on this river.” The residents called on Athi Water Works Development Authority to intervene and avert the crisis. However, Gatundu Water and Sewerage Company managing director Patrick Mwangi told journalists the scarcity has not been caused by the impoundment, but is caused by the hot weather being experienced in the country. He also said the river is not entirely blocked.  (edited by Amol Awuor)