Pressure is mounting on DP William Ruto to pick Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru as his running mate, specially Rift Valley. More than 600 members of the North Rift Chapter of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance Youth League met in Eldoret and also endorsed Waiguru as the most qualified to be Ruto’s running mate. Led by Beverlyne Chebii, they said the DP will have made history by appointing Waiguru to be his running mate because she brings on board  value as a woman leader and an experienced public servant. “Waiguru has demonstrated her capacity to lead at the time she served in government, rising to CS level and even as governor of Kirinyaga,” Chebii said. She said Waiguru was popular countrywide and UDA had already benefitted from her popularity in Mt Kenya. “We have considered all factors and compared all those proposed as possible running mates in Kenya Kwanza. We find Waiguru fits the requirements and deserves the position,” Chebii said. Others mentioned as possible running mates include MPs Ndindi Nyoro, Alice Wahome, Rigathi Gachagwa and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, among others. North Rift youth also say Kenya is ripe for a woman to occupy the second highest position in the country, hence, their push to have Waiguru join in the August 9 polls. “Women of Kenya have come a long way and it’s the likes of Governor Waiguru who have been at the forefront. As recognition of their efforts, we feel she should be our deputy president as we mobilise support for Ruto," Chebii said. Last week the Nakuru chapter of the youth league also urged the Kenya Kwanza Alliance to pick Waiguru to deputise Ruto. The league, including  youth leaders from across the country, has cited Waiguru's 'transformational' leadership as a factor. "Anne Waiguru should be nominated not only because she is a woman, but because she merits to serve in the capacity of deputy president much more than all her predecessors. She has a track record," a league statement read. "Governor Waiguru enjoys the support of Mt Kenya and indeed the entire country and her agenda resonates with everyone," it read. They likened her to Kamala Harris, the US vice president and Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu for her sharpness, eloquence, intelligence and bravery. The youth leaders also highlighted the progress in Kirinyaga, The issue of Ruto's deputy is seen as a hot potato within the larger Kenya Kwanza Alliance, as is Raila Odinga's choice. A Mt Kenya running mate is expected to enhance their chances for victory. (Edited by V. Graham)