A 23-year-old man was Tuesday arrested after he killed his mother and seven-year-old brother in a bizarre incident in the Kamulu area, Ruai, Nairobi County. David Kimani used stones to hit the two in the head killing them in their house Tuesday morning. The deceased were identified as Peninah Njoki Kimani, 43 and Maina Karibu. A neighbour who responded to the screams of the deceased and tried to help was hit by a rock and seriously wounded. She is admitted to the hospital with wounds in the head. Nairobi police boss James Mugera said the suspect was arrested at a farm near the scene of the crime. He added they suspect domestic quarrels as the motive behind the incident but added investigations are ongoing. “The man will be among others undergo medical tests before he is prosecuted with murder. We are investigating it,” he said. Cases of domestic murders have been on the rise in the past months with authorities blaming them on various issues including poverty. Meanwhile, two suspected thugs were Tuesday night shot dead in the Soweto area, Nairobi in a botched robbery incident. The two had been attacking and robbing pedestrians in the area while armed with a toy pistol and knives and were in the company of two others when police were alerted. Police said they moved into action and challenged the men to surrender in vain prompting them to open fire and killed the two. The bodies were moved to the mortuary after a toy pistol and a bloody sword were found on them. One man who had been stabbed and injured was rushed to hospital. In a separate incident, police in Nairobi are investigating the discovery of a male body near a railway line in the Mwiki area. The body had stab wounds and broken limbs and seems to have been dumped there after a murder elsewhere. Police who visited the scene said the deceased was oozing blood from his mouth and did not have identification documents. The body was moved to the mortuary. In Kangemi, the body of a man was found in a local dam. The man did not have identification documents at the time the body was discovered and moved to the mortuary. Investigations into both incidents are ongoing.