Tarda is exploring tourism activities along the Tana River basin to generate own source revenue. Tana and Athi River Development Authority CEO Liban Roba said the institution intends to create hydropower tourism, water sports tourism, fishing and camping around Masinga and Kiambere dams, which fall under its purview. The CEO spoke on Wednesday during a press briefing at the Masinga Dam Resort, Machakos. He however said the activities will not preclude other agricultural, conservation and ecological activities along the Tana River basin. Tarda is looking for ways to survive a cash crunch in the wake of financial constraints facing the exchequer. “As a government institution were are cognisant of the resource constrains and we are exploring possible ways to supplement the funding we get from the National Treasury,” Roba said. He said the immediate options are to engage in ecotourism and value addition to be able to finance the organisation’s mandated activities and programmes. The parastatal boss said the revenue generation activities will be hinged on the government’s public-private partnership laws. The activities aim not only at bringing on board finances but skills that would help Tarda accomplish its mandate satisfactorily. He said the objective is to lessen the financial burden, which Tarda has placed on the exchequer. The CEO said the Ministry of Tourism has already developed the Tana basin tourism road map and community based tourism on behalf of Tarda. He said all feasible stakeholders will be brought on board including county governments. “The plan will be executed through community engagement so that residents participate in tourism building and become players,” Roba said. He said ultimately the dams will be linked to the region’s tourism circuit. The CEO said the areas are accessible not only by road but aircrafts can land at the Masinga airstrip next to the Masinga Dam Resort. He said the hotel has hosted internationally acclaimed leaders and presidents. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)