At least 150 UDA ward rep nominees from four Mt Kenya counties said on Wednesday they are ready to face their competitors. The aspirants from Nyeri, Laikipia, Murang’a and Kirinyaga counties spoke to the media after receiving their nomination certificates at the Nyeri Cultural Centre. UDA national elections board member Aularia Rono said only two certificates were not issued during the event as they had issues. She promised the issues will be sorted out soon. She encouraged the candidates to embark on serious but peaceful campaigns. UDA county coordinator Lucy Wanyitu said the hopefuls are now ready to go out and campaign. She urged them to work hard and ensure the party wins in all the wards they represent. “We are also encouraging them to sell the party and our presidential candidate William Ruto so that he becomes the fifth president on August 9,” she said. UDA election board member Kinyua Macharia said they will be trying to reach out to those who lost in the nominations, so they can team up with winners and campaign together. Mukurwe-ini West (Nyeri) MCA aspirant Atanasio Kabaire termed the party nominations and the certificate issuing process as transparent. “We are happy and sure that we are going to win. We have seen the kind of unity the region has shown and we are sure that UDA is the party that will take over the government after 9 August, 2022,” he said. Gatitu Muruguru ward (Nyeri) aspirant Zipporah Wanjiku congratulated women who won the nominations. She said campaigns for women, unlike men, are difficult as they are only able to campaign during the day. Campaign funding for women is also a big issue, she said. Irene Wachuka, Igwamiti ward (Laikipia) aspirant, said she beat seven men who were competing against her. She said she won after having unsuccessfully contested the seat several times in previous elections. Wachuka lauded the party, saying it went out of its way to ensure the party’s nominations were free and fair and that many candidates were happy with the process. She urged those who lost during the nominations in the ward to join hands with her so they can work together in delivering victory for the party. Thingithu ward (Laikipia) aspirant Stephen Nderitu said if losers and winners work together, they will deliver votes for UDA candidates in all elective seats. Kariti ward (Kirinyaga) hopeful Makimi Kariuki said the competition was stiff and thanked God and the people of Kariti for choosing him to fly the party’s flag. “We have a problem in Kirinyaga because the county is the epicentre of the deep state that was trying to push all of us to join Jubilee. But we stood our ground because UDA is the most popular party there and we had to listen to the people,” he said. Kariuki predicted that all MCAs in Kirinyaga will be elected on UDA in August. Edited by A.N