The Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance Coalition is conducting zoning within Nairobi to identify areas political parties will field aspirants. This is their master plan to ensure they lock Nairobi out of the reach of their Kenya Kwanza rivals. However, the plan has shut the dreams of aspirants who were eager and ready to fly the Azimio flag regardless of their party. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the zoning was agreed to ensure both Jubilee and the Orange party got eight constituencies and Wiper got one. In February, Azimio presidential aspirant Raila Odinga hinted the coalition could opt to zone the country to enable each outfit in the coalition to ring-fence its strongholds. ‘“We do not want a situation where we compete and divide our votes which will enable the rival party to win,” he said. In the Azimio line up, ODM has bagged Mathare under MP Anthony Oluoch, Embakasi East (Paul Ongili ‘Babu Owino'), Ruaraka (Tj Kajwang), Makadara (George Aladwa) and Westlands ( Tim Wanyonyi). Wanyonyi agreed to drop his governor bid after the coalition picked Jubilee’s Polycarp Igathe. The ODM proceeded to cancel Westlands primaries to allow Wanyonyi defend his seat. Igathe will be deputised by former Kibwezi MP Philip Kaloki, who is from the Kalonzo Musyoka-led Wiper Democratic Movement. Sifuna was handed the senatorial ticket while, incumbent Woman Rep Esther Passaris will defend her seat. Following Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati choice to run for Kisii governor, Gender CAS Beatrice Elachi was given the ticket to succeed him. Former Kiss FM presenter Felix Odiwour, alias Jalang'o won the Langata primaries, while Peter Orero scooped the Kibra nominations locking out the incumbent Imran Okoth. From Jubilee, Roysambu will be contested by Ndirangu Waihenya, Kasarani (Mercy Gakuya), Kamukunji (Abdi Yussug Hassan), Dagoretti South (Dennis Waweru), Embakasi North (Harrison Wangoro), Embakasi West (Mark Mwenje), Embakasi Central (Former Mayor John Ndirangu) and Starehe (Amos Mwago). Gakuya’s choice means the dreams of former county executive Janet Ouko and Sportspesa CEO Ronald Karuri who ere eyeing the seat have been silenced. However, Waweru was among the 24 new envoys President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed and was announced to be the consul general of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is not clear on his way forward on the matter. Mark, David Mwenje’s son getting the Jubilee ticket means ODM aspirant Kennedy Odhiambo, who was seeking the seat has been locked out. The current Starehe MP Charles Njagua is seeking to defend his seat as an independent candidate. Wiper bagged the Embakasi South seat with Julius Mawathe as its candidate. Nairobi has 17 subcounties and 85 wards. In the 2019 population and housing census, Nairobi recorded 4,397,073 million residents. In the last general election, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the registered voters increased to 2,251,929 from 1,732,288 in 2013. Going by the past voting pattern, Nairobi has always had the opposition leading with votes. In 2017 polls, ODM presidential candidate Raila Odinga garnered 828,826 votes while Jubilee’s Uhuru’s got 791,291. Narrowing it down to subcounties, Jubilee got nine, ODM (seven), while Wiper got one. At the county assembly level, Jubilee had the majority of the seats including nominated MCAs. Nairobi will be a battle field with Kenya Kwanza also expected  to field aspirants across all subcounties. (Edited by Tabnacha O)