Kenya has not yet adopted a recent recommendation to give girls only one dose of the human papillomavirus vaccine. The recommendation was made two weeks ago by the World Health Organisation, which said a single dose provides as much lifetime protection as two or three doses. However, the Ministry of Health told the Star they are still waiting for a detailed explanation from the WHO to see if this guidance is applicable to Kenya. Head of immunisation at the ministry Dr Lucy Mecca, advised parents that if their girls are due for a second dose, given after six months, they should still get it. “When WHO makes such a recommendation, it follows with a detailed position paper. Kenya National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group will then evaluate the position paper and make a recommendation to the Ministry of Health,” Dr Mecca said. “At the moment we are still waiting for that position paper from the WHO.” Kenitag is the scientific and technical advisory body to the Ministry of Health on matters relating to vaccines and immunisation policy. Kenya introduced the HPV jab in 2019 targeting 800,000 girls aged 10 years with two doses. However, Dr Mecca said they have now expanded the eligible group to all girls aged 10 to 14 years. The vaccination provides protection against HPV types 16 and 18 which are responsible for approximately 70 per cent of cervical cancer cases. The optimal age of vaccination is in the early adolescent period, before sexual debut with possible HPV infection. Speaking separately at a meeting organised by the Ministry of Health to mark the national immunisation week, Dr Mecca said the HPV first dose coverage stands at 41 per cent. “The share of girls aged 10-14 years who have received the second dose is 13 per cent,” she said. “We are optimistic that these numbers will go up because for us the ideal coverage is at least 75 per cent.” In Kenya, HPV is the number one cause of cancer in women between the ages of 15 and 44, and 5,250 new cases are diagnosed annually. More than 95 per cent of cervical cancer is caused by sexually transmitted HPV. In a statement, the WHO assistant director general Dr Princess Nothemba Simelela said, "This single-dose recommendation has the potential to take us faster to our goal of having 90 per cent of girls aged 15 vaccinated by 2030.” HPV vaccines have been in use in the private sector in Kenya since 2006. However, before introduction in public facilities, the ministry first conducted a pilot in 2013–2015 in Kitui county. The successful uptake of 96 per cent during the pilot was used as an indicator of the country's readiness to roll out the HPV vaccine and incorporate it into the routine immunisation schedule, beginning with 10-year-old girls. However, actual uptake has been low, from 25 per cent in 2019 to 33 per cent in 2020 and the current 41 per cent. (Edited by Tabnacha O)