Lack of ballot boxes for various aspirant seats has been attributed to the low voter turnout in Nyeri county during UDA primaries on Thursday. There were missing boxes for governor, senator and Woman Representative and, in some cases, MP seats. Polling stations in the county have either one or two ballot boxes, and which are either that of MCAs and MPs or MCAs alone. Nyeri town, Tetu and Kieni constituencies had two ballot boxes per polling station as they were supposed to hold nominations for MP and MCA. Othaya, Mathira and Mukurwe-ini had only one ballot box, as they were holding nominations for MCAs only. This was after other contestants accepted consensus or went unopposed. They include Governor Mutahi Kahiga, senator aspirant Wahome Matinga and Woman Representative Rahab Mukami. Others who did not go for nominations are Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), John Kaguchia (Mukurwe-ini) and Wambugu Wainaina (Othaya). Josh Mwangi, a voter at Githwariga polling station in Nyeri Town constituency, said the party’s preparations were good and materials arrived on time and voting began as scheduled. He said the only challenge witnessed was that of names of  people who had changed their voting areas were missing in the new voting stations, and had to go to their previous polling stations to vote. IEBC had not updated their details on the voter register and, according to reports, that will be done by July. Same sentiments were shared by Rware MCA Paul Kanyari who said high cost of living and shortage of fuel could have kept voters away. County returning officer Fredrick Wanyoro said there are 572 polling stations in the county. UDA county coordinator Lucy Wanyitu said the exercise was peaceful after aspirants committed to uphold peace. “Though there is a shortage of security officers in some polling stations, aspirants have been taking it upon themselves to uphold peace and act swiftly in addressing any problem that arises,” she said. Wanyitu said only some areas experienced delays such as Nyeri National Polytechnic, where communication was delayed. The polling officers had to be kept waiting at the gate for about two hours before the gates were opened. Other places that experienced such hitches included Moi Equator Secondary School, Nyeri Cathedral Nursery and areas in Kieni West, where there was a delay in transportation of voting materials. But that was later resolved and the exercise started. Cases of voter bribery were reported at Riamukurwe in Nyeri town, but the issue was also resolved.  (edited by Amol Awuor)