Governor Jackson Mandago says he can easily account for the more than Sh60 billion allocated to Uasin Gishu county during his tenure. Mandago, whose second term is coming to an end, is vying for the Senate seat in the same county. He said he has a detailed account of all expenditures of public funds in the since he took over as governor. Speaking at Centre Kwanza, Turbo subcounty, during his senatorial bid campaigns, Mandago said he has never missed summons by the Public Accounts Committee in the Senate to answer on audit queries. His comments come amidst heated debate in the county over his decision to vie for the Senate. Leaders, including Kapseret MP, have faulted Mandago’s move, amid accusations that the governor wants to protect himself from alleged financial mistakes committed under his administration. But Mandago has said he is clean and has the right to vie for any seat in the region. The county boss also said he is better placed to serve as senator having gained necessary experience on devolution while serving as governor. Mandago said all funds were used to improve healthcare, agriculture, education, infrastructure and supply of water to residents, among other projects. He said if elected as senator, he will use his experience, networks and expertise to serve the people of the county more effectively. The governor faces a tough battle in the race for the UDA ticket in which he is battling against lawyer Kipchumba Karori and former radio presenter, Robert Kemei. “I will help in determining the allocation of national revenue and also do other general duties irrespective of whose mandate it is like ensuring residents have electricity, water, networking for jobs and scholarships," Mandago said. He campaigned in several areas including Tiret and Tapsagoi ward in Turbo subcounty, where he asked residents to vote for him. Mandago also asked legislators to help push the government to extend the ongoing boda boda registration for a period of  three months from the current 60 working days. He said the time allocated for the exercise will not be sufficient given the economical challenges the industry is facing, including the current fuel shortages and the fact that most of the riders are servicing loans. Mandago said the initiative, which aims at streamlining the boda boda sub-sector, is welcome, but there was need for it to be implemented in an effective and smooth manner.  (edited by Amol Awuor)