Community football associations want the Football Kenya Federation constitution amended to give them the mandate to run football within their respective counties. The associations are the latest in the growing list of stakeholders proposing amendments to the FKF document in the ongoing exercise facilitated by the Caretaker Committee that entered its fourth day on Tuesday. In their presentation at a session chaired by FKF CC Chairman Justice (Rtd) Aaron Ringera at the Nyayo National Stadium, the associations based their argument on the provisions of the Sports Act 2013. “County sports association" means a branch of a national sports body whose area of operation is within a county, or a sports organization whose reach is only in a country; County Football association are synonymous to branches,” states the Act. The CFAs further proposed to have the new FKF constitution aligned with Sports Act of 2013. “Members resolved to review the Football Kenya Federation constitution to reflect this new dispensation and also align any other wanting clauses in the constitution to meet the changed needs in administering the game of football in Kenya in line with CAF and FIFA requirements.” “Now, this constitution is adopted as the Constitution of the Football Kenya Federation.” The CFAs further stated, “The preamble should reflect the constitutional amendment as being kick started by the caretaker committee. The preamble should take into consideration and highlight the reason being the need to comply with the sports Act 2013 as the main reason for the need of the change.” They also touched on the process of admission into FKF membership, stating, “The process of admission should be anchored in the Sports Act and should be open only to those who are compliant with the Sports Act.” Other proposals to the draft FKF Constitution from the CFAs include the conducting of FKF Elections by an Independent Electoral Board. “Delegates voting must be from associations registered with the office of the Sports Registrar as well as the amendment of any changes to FKF office bearers being notified to the sports registrar within fourteen days of the changes and the yearly submission of the FKF’s Annual General Minutes to the Sports Registrar.” Editing by Tony Mballa