The younger brother to 2011 All Africa Games 10,000m silver medalist Bedan Karoki has described him as a pillar of strength as he strives to make Team Kenya for the World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia. Eliud Muchiri hopes to represent Kenya in the men's 1,500m and says his older brother has been pushing him on in training. "He is always pushing me to rise above the pain and pursue my goals in training. Adhering to a training programme is utmost to him and has always stressed the importance of the same upon me," Muchiri said. The youngster has been training with his brother, although his regime is modified for the track races, unlike Karoki who has since transitioned into road races. Regardless, Muchiri believes his brother is just the right ally he needs to get over the disappointment of missing out on last year's World Under 20 Championships on home soil. "Definitely, he is an inspiration and wants me to reach the heights he has scaled in his career. Last year, I was on my way to making the final team until I suffered an injury before the national trials. Missing out was a painful thing and I want to correct that this year," Muchiri said. He added: "I learnt so much from the experience last year and I am now wiser. I've worked a lot on speed work and I believe I am much more prepared. I am hopeful this time there will be no injury worries." Muchiri also hopes to move to Japan in the near future just like his older sibling. He was speaking at Dundori residential camp in Nyandarua County during a fact-finding mission by Athletics Kenya officials, led by the secretary of the federation's youth committee, Joseph Ilovi. Ilovi encouraged athletes in the camp to maintain the good name of the region, which produced five athletes in the team that successfully defended the country's under 20 titles at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "Last time you sent five athletes to the national team and We expect you to do better come the trials in July, now that the covid-19 pandemic has subsided," Ilovi said. The juniors have been in camp since the beginning of the month and are expected to depart on April 23 ahead of the reopening of schools. Ilovi warned the juniors not to rest on their laurels even when out of sight of their coaches. "Listen to what your coaches are telling you. When you go back to school, do not relax in your training. Fortunately, primary schools will begin with athletics Championships in May," he added. "Train hard because all the other camps are also training hard. The competition for places in the regional team will not be easy."