UDA aspirants in Nyeri have expressed optimism that party primaries slated for next week on Thursday will be free and fair. Several hopefuls have said they are satisfied with the preparations made so far. Nyeri assembly speaker John Kaguchia said regular briefings by senior party election officials have helped eliminate fear among aspirants. Kaguchia is vying for Mukurwe-ini parliamentary seat. “You know our party members have been intimidated, given propaganda, but in these meetings, we are able to give proper information," he said. He spoke after a UDA aspirant caucus forum held in Nyeri town. Kaguchia said the caucus has been meeting fortnightly with the aim of bonding and discussing party primaries. County returning officer Fredrick Wanyoro was present during the meeting. Kaguchia said the election official gave a proper and elaborate process on how party primaries will be conducted. “All the questions that the aspirants asked have been answered satisfactorily and sufficiently. We are happy,” Kaguchia said. The Nyeri speaker said aspirants were informed that all polling stations will be open from 7am to 5pm and that sufficient ballot papers will be provided. He said this will prevent irregularities. Kaguchia said insufficient papers have in the past been blamed for electoral malpractice. Clerks who will be posted to various polling stations, he said, will not be from the locality. This will ensure the process will be independent, objective, transparent and accountable and there will be no interference. The speaker said they were able to come up with the names of subcounty returning officers, agreed upon by every aspirant in their respective jurisdictions. “We have floated the names of people whom we feel are dependent, experienced and are able to supervise and oversee the party primaries,” Kaguchia said. He urged voters to turn out in large numbers on August 14 and vote for their preferred candidates, saying the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission register will be used during the primaries. Two weeks ago, the aspirants had a meeting with the national elections board where they were briefed on how the party will be conducting the  primaries. UDA has embraced consensus in Nyeri. Other areas where consensus has been embraced include Mathira and Mukurwe-ini. Atanasio Kabaire, who is defending his Mukurwe-ini West MCA seat, said aspirants are being encouraged to avoid mudslinging their opponents. They are instead advised to engage in issue-based campaigns to avoid animosity after nominations. “It is good for aspirants to understand that their opponents are not their enemies,"he said. "We should avoid tainting names and images of our opponents or damage the party’s reputation but instead sell policies and let the people decide.” Rware MCA Paul Kanyari said he was optimistic that the primaries will be free and fair going by the signs and winners and losers will work together after the exercise. His sentiments were shared by Tetu parliamentary aspirant Matutu Mathenge who said he was ready to support the winner if he loses in the party primaries. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)