Kenya boasts one of the best infrastructure networks in Africa's South of Sahara, Transport CS James Macharia has said. The CS said that the government has invested in diverse modes of transport and infrastructural projects to facilitate access to a safe and efficient public transport system. This, the CS said, has seen Kenya boast one of the best infrastructure networks in Africa South of the Sahara. He spoke during the General Assembly high level meeting in New York to assess the implementation of the new urban agenda. In his speech, Macharia said Kenya has aligned herself to the position of the Africa Group and the Group of 77 and China on the New Urban Agenda, and was among the first countries to submit its Country Report. He pointed out that the government has facilitated the construction of more than 200,000 housing units under the Affordable Housing Program, under the Big Four Development Agenda. “This is under the second transformative commitment on sustainable urban development for social inclusion and poverty eradication. The Government has also undertaken Urban Waterfront Planning and Development projects targeting coastal and inland waterfronts under the third transformative commitment on environmentally sound and resilient urban development," said Macharia. This is in addition to rehabilitated five major water towers, and enhanced protection measures for inland freshwater ecosystems and wetlands. In order to cushion the vulnerable in the society against effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, Macharia said his ministry has implemented the National Hygiene Programme, which seeks to provide employment opportunities in informal settlements in urban areas. He said the Kazi Mtaani program seeks to improve the living environment in these areas, and it has provided income generation opportunities to more than 278,000 vulnerable women and youth. The CS also highlighted a number of challenges that have been experienced in implementing the New Urban Agenda. These include low prioritization and awareness of the New Urban Agenda, and limited financial resources. He said for some time now, UN-Habitat has been underfunded and understaffed, which limits its ability to coordinate implementation and reporting. Macharia called upon the international community to step up its commitments in advocating and elevating the Urban Agenda, by integrating it into global agendas and agreements. “I urge development partners to mobilize adequate, predictable and sufficient concessional financing for the implementation of the New Urban Agenda.  Further, I call upon Member States to consider enhancing their support to UN-Habitat by making predictable and non-earmarked contributions annually,” said Macharia. He added that Kenya is committed to prioritize urban planning and development and delivery of adequate housing.