Kakamega Homeboyz are still the team to beat as the Kenyan Premier League title race enters the homestretch, head coach Benard Mwalala has said. The runaway KPL leaders had their title ambitions slowed down after a two-all draw with Kenya Police at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Sunday but Mwalala is convinced they are still the fancied side. “This is a marathon race and we can't rely on a single match in our bid for the title. I don't think today's outcome has affected our title bid. Yes, we have dropped points but the one point we managed in this match is equally crucial for our title charge,” Mwalala said. “We are taking each match at a time and we view the single point we got today as a gain and a step towards the title.” His opposite number Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo believes his charges put up a brave fight against a well-organised side. “I can't complain about getting a single point from this match because Homeboyz are a good team and currently at the top of the league,” Omollo said. Omollo, who was overseeing his fourth league encounter since taking over from John 'Bobby' Ogolla in February, said they had learned some lessons that will prove crucial in their subsequent ties. “What we need to do is to build on today's result in our subsequent matches and everything will be fine,” he added. Clinton Kinanga put the law enforcers ahead in the fifth minute but Gaetan Masha restored parity with a 22nd-minute strike. Police took the lead again through Clifton Miheso's 60th-minute penalty only for David Okoth to draw Homeboyz level again barely two minutes later. The outcome leaves Homeboyz at the top of the log with 55 points but they will have to watch over their shoulders for a ballooning threat posed by second-placed Tusker, who closed in on the leaders after walloping AFC Leopards 2-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. They have 49 points. Coastal side, Bandari, got a walkover after Mathare United failed to turn up for their fixture at Mbaraki Sports Club. The Slum Boys' chairman Bob Munro had warned they stood to skip the encounter due to financial constraints bedeviling the club. Nzoia Sugar and Ulinzi Stars played out to a one-all draw at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma.