Azimio One Kenya Presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga has said that he will close all corruption loopholes if elected president August 9. The opposition chief regretted that Kenyans have lost huge sums of money through corruption. He exuded confidence that he will form the next government and create wealth for all through his economic module where jobless Kenyans will benefit receive a monthly stipend of Sh6,000. Raila said the Azimio one Kenya will forever change Kenya's political landscape for the betterment of all people irrespective of their race and political affiliation. The former Premier spoke in Gidea secondary school in Kwanza subcounty in Trans Nzoia County during the burial of ODM member of the board of trustees, Jotham Nyukuri. ODM had only four members on the board of trustees among them Raila's eldest brother Oburu Odinga, Timothy Bosire, the late Jotham Nyukuri and Joshua Kawino . Raila eulogized Nyukuri as a steadfast member of the Orange Democratic Movement . "Nyukuri was a steadfast personality who stood with us at all times from the days of the late Masinde Muliro, Wamalwa Kijana and other champions of the second liberation," he said. Defense Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa who accompanied Raila to the funeral hit out at the Ford Kenya brigade, singling out Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba for doing nothing to uplift the lives of the  electorate. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya on the other hand described ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula as cowards who are fighting for their own selfish needs. "It's high time that Luhyas are united to be able to gather votes in one basket to enable Raila become President. Those who went to Kenya Kwanza went to fulfill their selfish interests," Oparanya said. Former Minister Noah Wekesa predicted that the 2022 general election outcome at the Presidential level will favour Azimio la Umoja one Kenya Presidential candidate Raila Odinga. "I learned that art of predicting what will happen in the future that Raila Odinga will become President of Kenya," Wekesa said. EALA MP Oburu Odinga urged Kenyans to support his brother whom he said doesn't keep grudges. "Raila has love and passion for people even as a brother I wonder at the commitment he has for Kenyans and I'm telling you the truth that he is one person who is not corrupt," Oburu said of his younger brother. Butere MP Tindi Mwale who defected from ANC to ODM supported the former Premier's presidential bid. Raila later addressed a mammoth rally at Kiminini market where he endorsed former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya for the Trans Nzoia gubernatorial seat. Kiminini is home to Ford Kenya secretary general Chris Wamalwa of Kenya Kwanza.