A standoff ensued at a function hosted by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya in Igembe South, Meru County, on Saturday after the event degenerated into a war of words. This came after Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi arrived at the event with his supporters and at a time when the event had kicked off. While addressing the function, Munya used the occassion to remind the MP of betraying President Uhuru Kenyatta despite the Head of State gifting him a vehicle immediately he won the 2017 polls. When Mwirigi was given chance to address, he appeared to downplay Munya's remarks on betrayal and went on to maintain that he is in the UDA party to stay. He went on to explain that his decision to work with Deputy President William Ruto is because he came in handy when he and his people needed help. "I am going to vie for a second term in office on a UDA party ticket. That is my party and my Presidential candidate is William Samoe Ruto who will be elected on August 9, polls," he said. Amidst his address, Munya urged him to speed up his address since, according to him, he had spoken enough. The MP appeared to have been agitated by Munya's incessant interjection asking him to finish up his speech quickly. In the mid of his speech, his microphone was switched off for seconds and when it was put on, he went on to address amidst interjection from the CS. "Maliza buana, sinimekupea nafasi ya kutosha. Sinimekupea nafasi na niko na mkutao ingine. Sasa unavunja mkutano yangu, si umalize!" The MP eventually lost patience and took on the CS head-on saying: "Lakini ujue sisi ndo to tumekuajiri kazi kama Members of Parliament". Here is the VIDEO Courtesy of Meru Daily News: The CS immediately dismissed the remarks. "Mimi hamjaniajiri, hamuna kazi ya kuajiri mtu. Mnaniajiri kama nani? Mimi nimeandikwa kazi na Mwirigi kweli? Tuheshimiane buana. Nikikupea nafasi salimiana" he said. Munya went on to sell the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance agenda to the people saying he is committed to its course.