The national government has pledged to secure a land for the establishment of a modern market for traders operating in Mukinduri along the busy Kerugoya-Baricho road. Kirinyaga Central deputy county commissioner Daniel Ndege said the market will not only promote growth in the area, but will also provide a conducive and safety environment for the traders. He assured the traders of their safety even as they continue to undertake their activities up until the day they shall be relocated. His pledge come days after they received ultimatums to vacate from the area to other neighbouring markets around. "No one should throw you out of the area you are currently operating from up until when we shall officially relocate you in a new market," Ndege, who was speaking on Thursday in Mukinduri shopping centre, said. He further said the new market will be expanded to accommodate more traders thus boosting the economic activities as well as improving the livelihoods of more residents. Ndege said once is complete, the current traders will be granted the first priority during the allocation of sheds in the new markets. He authorised the market committee to furnish his office with a list of the active traders. He said the open air market is one of the largest primary markets across the county and, as such, it has elicited a great concern from the state. Other markets of the same status are Gatwe, Kangaita, Mutithi and Kimbimbi. The markets attract between 500 and 1,700 buyers and sellers during Sundays, which is the official market day. The market chairman Josphat Wachira thanked the government for its willingness to find them space for the construction of the new market. He said this would bring an end to the struggles the traders have been going through while selling their goods. “Finally we are at peace because the government has guaranteed our safety. We are also hopeful it will fulfil it’s pledge of building us a market," he said. Wachira told his fellow traders to be patient and adhere to all the directives that the government shall provide. Teresiah Ndegwa, another trader at the market, hailed the move, saying it shall provide the needed safety to the traders. She said the market shall help both the buyers and sellers whose lives are at risk due to the speeding vehicles on the busy roads.  (edited by Amol Awuor)