The county government of Lamu has acquired 10 new tractors to help  enhance food production  in the region. This means the poor who were not able to access tractors due to high ploughing rates can now access it at a fee of Sh1,000 per acre. Normally farmers are charged between Sh2,000 to Sh2,500 for the tractor. The move will also enhance and increase the county’s food security. The tractors will join the existing 14 serviceable tractors in Lamu's tractor fleet, bringing the total number available to farmers to 24. This means tractor services will be more efficient and accessible to all farmers. Speaking at the county headquarters on Monday, Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha said the tractor ploughing rates will continue to be subsidised at compared to the market rate. "Food production in Lamu  has been a task anchored on physical labor. Wealthy farmers can get tractor services from private owners, there is need to help the poor achieve food security," Twaha said. "Availability of affordable tractor services will attract even more youths to farming.” The governor said the new fleet will help save local farmers over Sh20 million cumulatively through the subsidised prices. “This will accrue from ploughing over 20,000 acres of land at just half the market rate, of Sh1,000 per acre," Twaha said. The move will also help cushion vulnerable farmers and at the same time boost Lamu's economy by giving farmers more funds to plough back into other productive activities. Twaha revealed that the county intends to open up over 20,000 acres of land for cultivation this season as part of the subsidised mechanisation project,. This, he said, will put money in farmers' pockets and ensure a food secure Lamu. “This season, we will be able to open up to 20,000 acres for farming in all wards thanks to this new fleet. The rains have delayed, but with the onset ,the work should start soon,” he said. The county government has since acquired certified hybrid seeds, which will be supplied free of charge, to vulnerable farmers across Lamu for planting during the long rains. In a move meant to reduce post-harvest losses for farmers in remote areas, the county government has also provided five trailers and a 10-tonne boat to help transport the harvested produce. “Farmers in Vumbe, Sadan, Kiangwe, Mwathe and other farming blocks in Lamu East who travel great distances to access food markets will benefit from this service,” said Twaha. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)