The National Aids Control Council has expressed concern over increasing cases of drug and substance abuse among the youth in the country. NACC chief executive officer Ruth Laibon Masha said the country risks losing the young generation, in particular those in the coastal region, to drugs, alcohol and substance abuse. She said the social vice had become a multi-faceted problem that requires a multi-dimensional approach from stakeholders in tackling it. Masha said the drug problem in the region is fuelling HIV/Aids among the Injecting Drug Users. “The syringes spread new infections among the IDUs who share needles and, in the process, transmitting HIV to other hard drug users,” she said. Masha was speaking at the Miritini Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre in Mombasa. She was accompanied by 47 county commissioners and eight regional commissioners, led by Coast regional commissioner John Elungata, during a tour of the Sh20-million-facility recently unveiled by Nacada. Masha, a public health expert, said stigma and discrimination from society prevented those suffering from addiction from seeking help. “One of the barriers to getting addiction treatment is the societal stigma surrounding the whole issue,” Masha said. She said stigma is a public health issue that contributes to high rates of death, incarceration and mental health concerns among dependent populations. “The society needs to stop seeing addiction as a moral failure, but see it as a health issue that deserves compassion and support from every quarter,” she said. She said there is need for public awareness campaigns in combating the stigma around substance use so that people can feel safe accessing the treatment and support they need. The newly built public rehab centre located in the seaside city is run by Nacada, and offers free drug treatment and rehabilitation services for recovering drug and substance users. She said the opening of the centre comes at a time when alcohol, drug and substance abuse are on the rise in the coastal counties of Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi and Lamu leading to deaths and drug-related mental health illnesses. She said the majority of the youth are involved in drug abuse, with 30 per cent of them influenced by peer pressure. Masha said the widespread drug abuse is responsible for crimes like rape and domestic violence leading to family breakups. Yvonne Akelo, director in charge of programmes, prevention and treatment at Nacada said 250 patients are currently on methadone at the Miritini rehab. Akelo said treating addiction and committing to a de-addiction programme could save lives, adding that the anti-drug agency is scaling up its activities in the coastal region to cope with rising rates of addiction. She called for concerted efforts from all stakeholders to address the problem. Akelo also asked those battling addiction to seek help in time, saying that the facility was open to all willing to commit. “Previously patients in the region had no clue on where to turn for help, but now we have this facility and other public health facilities offering the methadone programme,” she said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)