The family of a 22-year-old woman who died in Saudi Arabia three months ago is demanding a postmortem to ascertain the cause of her death. The body of  Stella Wachie was flown into the country on Monday and is at the Cherangany Nursing Home mortuary. A postmortem will be conducted tomorrow to establish whether her death was by torture as alleged by family members, after rope marks were seen on the body. Her brother Martin Matara said Wachie's body has several marks on the chest, hands and neck meaning she had been tied up and tortured before her death. The family has since disputed the report issued by doctors at the Saketa International Hospital, which indicated that Wachie died from anaemia and a heart related disease. "As a family, we feel relieved after receiving her body but we feel cheated by her employer's initial postmortem, we are demanding for a second one to find answers," Matara said. They are also demanding an explanation from the recruitment company called Tad Beer. The family who says they never thought their daughter's quest for greener pastures in the gulf would turn into grief, believes the postmortem will reveal the real cause of death. It has been three months since the family received the report of her death on February 10. Wachie was an M-Pesa agent in Kitale town before she left for the allure of Saudia Arabia in  July 2021 to fend for her family after the death of  her father, who was the sole bread winner. Matara said Wachie managed to secure a job as a domestic worker but things would later go wrong after she confided in him that she was being mistreated by her employers. Wachie's mother Mary Nabangala, 59, said the deceased made several distress calls on June 6, 2021, saying her life was in danger and her employer was unwilling to let her seek medication. The family told the Star they also received horrifying WhatsApp voice calls and messages from her. "Bro I am dying! I don’t know what is killing me, goodbye," she said in one of the voice messages on her brother's phone. Matara says his sister would be alive if the Kenyan embassy in Saudi Arabia had responded to her distress calls.  Wachie was not married. Nabangala is yet to come into terms with the death of her daughter. The family plans to bury her on Saturday at her parents Hillario home in Kiminini. (Edited by Tabnacha O)