Safina Party presidential aspirant Jimmy Wanjigi has promised to end corruption and nepotism if elected. Wanjigi said the two vices have bled the country's economy and slowed development since independence. He said his government will have no room for tribalism and those found culpable shall face the law. “I will not entertain a government where relatives of those in power only benefit,” he said. “My wife, sister or son will do business with the government.” Wanjigi said it is a violation of the Constitution for family members to run the government's affairs. He spoke on Sunday when he attended a church service in Shimba Hills, Kwale. Wanjigi said he is determined to uproot corruption and won't spare corrupt leaders who have made Kenyans suffer for years. He said about 99 per cent of the Kenyans have suffered at the hands of corrupt leaders. The politician said he is the change that people need and asked for support in his bid. Wanjigi said he is a man of God and will rescue the country from the chains of colonialism and the hands of dishonest powerful individuals. The presidential candidate said he won't enter into a coalition with anyone saying he trusts no one. Wanjigi said other party leaders are unfaithful, self-centred and only think of themselves. The businessman said he is the right person for the top seat and will ensure development. Wanjigi criticised some of his opponents for previously being in power and couldn't deliver anything but empty promises. “My competitors cannot be trusted with leadership. They failed to address the challenges facing the country yet they were in government,” he said. He strongly criticised the allegations that the presidential race is for Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto as speculated by the media. Wanjigi said he believes he will defeat his opponents. He was accompanied by Kwale's Safina Senator aspirant Hezron Mutua, Safina secretary general John Wamagata and Safina executive director David Wanjohi among others.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris