Eldoret and  neighbouring towns are still suffering an acute shortage of oil more than  four days after the state promised to normalise supply. The shortage has disrupted transport and the economy for a month. Motorists are still queuing and waiting for hours at petrol stations. One of the main oil dealers, Aaron Mwau, said they were still unable to get sufficient  supply from the Kenya Pipeline depot in Eldoret. “We also have long queues at the depot causing delayed supply at most petrol stations and the little we get is not adequate because demand is high at most stations," Mwau said. A spot check indicated long queues at several petrol stations including Total, Shell and Kenol, all within Eldoret town Central Business District. The dealer said in the current situation the petrol they used to sell in three days is cleared in a day because of the high demand. Despite government efforts to normalise the oil situation, motorists said they were still experiencing difficulties gietting oil products. They blamed the situation on oil marketing dealers and cartels in the sector. Motorist Dennis Nyagundo in the Eldoret CBD said the oil is still not available because they are still struggling to get enough; that was the same case before the current shortage. He said the cause of oil shortage was illegal activities, such as hoarding, by  the dealers. “Some petrol stations only release petrol at night and at times it’s given to specific people who give out bribes," Nyagundo said. Shuttle driver John Otieno expressed his anger with the dealers. “Some dealers are very unfair; they are still hoarding oil for purposes of making profits," he said. "It’s unfair and and amounts to economic sabotage." Motorists in neighbouring towns including Kitale, Iten and Kapsabet also reported shortages and asked the government to regularise supply as soon as possible. Motorists said local dealers were still exporting the oil products meant for local markers. The shortage has forced operators of PSVs and boda boda operators to hike fares. The latest price reviews by the Energy Regulatory Authority had increased pump prices by about Sh10 per litre of petrol. Some motorists also claim that petrol station owners had interfered with the pumps in order to sell lesser quantities for the prices set by the ERC. (Edited by V. Graham)