President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga’s Azimio coalition face a litmus test to broker a political deal for key positions in Nairobi. The deal will prepare the coalition to face off with Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance. On Saturday, the DP waded through a delicate negotiation to strike a deal between Senator Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. Wanjiru stepped down in her governor bid for Sakaja in the arrangement that will see the former assistant minister run for Senate on a UDA ticket. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga will run for woman representative seat. The UDA deal effectively sets the stage for a fierce battle with Azimio, a coalition that has attracted several candidates seeking to run for various seats in the capital. At least five aspirants are seeking to run for governor, with four hopefuls eyeing the Senate while five are seeking woman representative positions on the parties affiliated with the coalition. The new development is proving to be a headache to the coalition as it seeks to consolidate its support base to outdo UDA in the upcoming polls. ODM, Jubilee and Wiper, all members of the coalition, have attracted the highest number of aspirants seeking to run for various seats in the capital. Raila’s ODM has fronted Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi for governor, with secretary general Edwin Sifuna eyeing the Senate seat on the Orange party ticket. The party has attracted at least three aspirants for woman representative, among them incumbent Esther Passaris and Nominated Senator Beatrice Kwamboka. Jubilee Party, on the other hand, has at least four governor hopefuls. They include businessman Richard Ngatia, businesswoman Agnes Kagure and incumbent  Anne Kananu. Reports say the party was courting former deputy governor Polycarp Igathe to go for the seat. “We don’t have any problem with zoning, especially in Nairobi, so that we can win most of the seats,” Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni said last week. In the event of indirect nomination, Kioni said the party will not issue tickets based on the popularity of a candidate, but they will be open to use other parameters. Nominated MP Maina Kamanda and former MCA Wangui Ng’ang’a are the leading aspirants for senator and woman representative, respectively, on Jubilee ticket. Already, Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper has handed a ticket to politician Ben Mulwa to run for the governor seat. Sources said Uhuru, Raila and Kalonzo alongside other parties in the coalition are seeking to broker a deal and zone the capital to enhance chances of winning. Failure to broker a deal and allowing every party to field their own candidates could hand Ruto’s team a field day in the capital. Nairobi, the country’s capital city, is the seat of power and the country’s economic engine. A governor controls billions of shillings, making it the most fought for position after that of the president. Nairobi is also the county with the highest number of voters. At more than Sh2.2 million up for grabs, the city’s politics is the most intense among presidential contenders. In 2017 general election, Raila garnered 828,826 votes against Uhuru's 791,291 votes. Besides the top positions, Kenya Kwanza and Azimio will also battle for 17 MP seats and 85 ward positions. UDA, Kenya Kwanza’s biggest partner, has scheduled its primaries for Thursday this week to pick candidates for the positions. According to UDA's National Elections Board chairman Anthony Mwaura, the nominations for all the wards, constituencies and counties will be held on the same day. He further said UDA has already shaped up its Nairobi leadership ahead of the nominations as three positions namely governor, senator and woman representative have direct tickets. At least five sitting MPs and 25 MCAs will battle for UDA tickets after defecting from Jubilee last month. They include six nominated MCAs: Joyce Muthoni, Susan Makungu, Millicent Jagero, Ann Thumbi, Leah Ntimama and Silvyia Museiya, Margaret Mbote. Among the elected are Pangani  MCA Peter Wahinya, Antony Kiragu – Waithaka, Mark Mugambi- Umoja, Waithera Chege – South B, Chege Mwaura – Ngara, Patrick Musili – Hospital, Maina Njoka – Kariobangi North, Elijah Mbuthia -Njiru and Pius  Mbono representing Zimmerman ward. Others include Kasarani MCA Antony Ngaruiya, Mwaura Samora- Clay city , Charles Thuo – Dandora Three and Geoffrey Nganga- Mwiki, There is also Paul Ndung’u – Pumwani, James Kiriba – Riruta , Fredrick Njogu – Kawangware and  Kawangware MCA Fredrick Njogu .(edited by Amol Awuor)