AFC Leopards striker Josphat Lopaga says the pressure and demand placed by the fans of his new club have shaped him into a better player. Lopaga, 19, who was acquired by the traditional Kenyan giants from rivals Posta Rangers during the mid-season transfer window, concedes that one needs to be at his best to feature for a team of Leopards magnitude. “The fans expect positive results at all times and this has made me and other players work hard in training so as to give our best during matches,” Lopaga said. The teen sensation says he is impressed by his performance so far at the Den, where he has featured in two league encounters. “I have been fielded in two matches, first in our draw against Bandari and later in our win against Police last Sunday,” Lopaga said. Lopaga reckons the expertise and vast experience he acquired under his former coach at Posta Rangers Stanley Okumbi refined prepared him well enough to fit in any team of Leopards' caliber. “Okumbi is a good coach with an in-depth knowledge of football. The tactical prowess he imparts enables one to play comfortably in any position and fit quite well in any team,” Lopaga said. Lopaga says he still nurses his ambitions of featuring for a good club outside the country. “At 19 I'm still very young and full of a bright future. Like any player I would like to play abroad, either in Egypt or in Spain,” Lopaga said. Lopaga's journey in football began after he was plucked from the streets where he had survived as an urchin for the better part of his formative years. He eventually found a home at City Stadium Homeless Youth Rehabilitation Centre and honed his skills at Shy Football Academy. He enrolled at Joseph Apudo Primary School before proceeding to Highview Secondary School. In 2017, Gor Mahia Youth coach Tom Ogweno spotted him in a friendly match and invited him to join the squad. “Ogweno took me as his son and made me comfortable. He encouraged me to take football seriously and to date, I owe the strides I have made in football to him,” he said. In 2019, he joined Mt. Kenya United in the National Super League. As a youngster, he continuously endured the austere, cold, and abandoned streets six years ago and he had no idea he would land a deal with Posta Rangers in the Kenyan Premier League. Lopaga’s exceptional exploits on the pitch drew the attention of Posta Rangers head coach Stanley Okumbi who enlisted him in his squad. He began donning the coveted mailmen's jersey after successfully shaking off the agonising past that saw him rummage through the bins for stale food. Although his sorrow-ridden past may have left a bitter taste in his mouth, he never allowed himself to drown in self-pity.