One person has been arrested by police officers in Kisumu and two others are still at large following the attack that led to the death of a manager of a local Ohangla musician. The incident happened in the wee hours of Monday at one of the local entertainment joints in Kondele. The deceased known as Cmm Clemmo was a renowned manager of Ohangla musician Emma Jalamo. Kisumu Central OCPD Anthony Maina said the arrested person was accompanied by two others when they attacked revellers at a local joint. Maina told the media that three men forced themselves into one of the entertainment joints around Kondele after overpowering security guards in their bid to gain entrance. He said after gaining entry, they stabbed two revellers at the joint. "Police were called and they rushed to the scene where we immediately rushed the two to the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital but unfortunately we lost one," he said. Maina added that the other reveller was treated and discharged in fair condition. He, however, noted that one of the attackers got injured during the attack and was arrested while two others escaped. "We have one of the attackers currently being treated at the same facility under police watch and he will be later arraigned in court when done with treatment," he added. The OCPD  urged members of the public to report the whereabouts of the two remaining attackers who are well-known persons. "We also want to commend citizens for swift reports. It was because of that that we managed to save one life even though it's unfortunate that we lost another," he added. Singer Jalamo called on the police to investigate the matter and ensure the perpetrators are brought to book. On his Facebook page, he said: "I am sorry to announce that this morning we have lost one of our own who was stabbed in the wee hours of the morning". Jalamo noted that Clement, apart from being his manager, was his brother, friend and personal confidant with whom they have walked hand to hand for years in their musical journey. "We ask for investigations to be done so that the perpetrators are swiftly brought to book and justice is served".