Parents expected to enrol learners to form one and other continuing classes will not be compelled to clear school fees, Education CS has said. CS George Magoha revealed that schools will receive the funds one week before the start of the new academic year. “Every school will have money, before they open, the money will be in the bank by Tuesday so they have one week to plan,” Magoha said. The government will release Sh2bn for free primary education and another Sh16.9bn for free Day Secondary Education. He was speaking during the Nairobi region Annual education conference for Wings to fly and Elimu scholarships Beneficiaries. Magoha issued a stern warning to school heads, who might be tempted to send away students with fees arrears at the start of the term which starts on April, 25. “Nobody should send the child away from schools that they have no money to run the schools, that will be criminal, the money belongs to the government, the children belong to the government,” he said. He also advised parents whose candidates were placed in day schools that are far to report to the next education centre for the issue to be sorted. Equity Bank CEO James Mwangi said the portal is open for submission of applications for both Elimu and Equity- Wings to fly scholarships. With only two weeks remaining before form one gets enrolled in secondary school, Mwangi advised needy parents to apply. “Today we have opened the website so that kids can apply online, we will release the application forms to all the branches then we will give scholars six days to apply,” Mwangi said. The vetting process and selection of beneficiaries will be done within two weeks to allow students to join form one. The Nairobi region hosted 2,413 scholars drawn from 3 counties and attached to 46 Equity Bank branches across the region. They include 1,266 girls and 1,147 boys who are currently pursuing their secondary education on full scholarships. Equity Group is sponsoring 2, 000 Wings to Fly scholars for 2022/2023Form One selection cycles at a cost of Shs 2 billion for their entire secondary school education. This year’s Wings to Fly Scholarship application and selection process will see 1,000 bright scholars from financially challenged backgrounds benefit. The learners will access comprehensive four-year secondary school scholarships throughout the country. The Government has made available 9,000 more Elimu scholarship opportunities, out of these 4,000 beneficiaries will be drawn from the slums. The aim will be to enable many of the learners to break the ceiling and liberate their families from dehumanizing urban poverty.