DP William Ruto's party has written to the controller of the budget demanding an audit for the monies used in the BBI process. In a letter seen by the Star on Wednesday, Secretary-general Veronica Maina said the answer to their question shall finally bring closure to Kenyans who have legitimate fears that billions of shillings of public funds may have been gobbled up in an unconstitutional process. "We are indeed aware that Sh30bn was spent on the BBI steering committee Taskforce in what they termed as public and stakeholder engagement exercise for collection of views," Maina said. But she noted that the task force only spent Sh10bn while various Principal Secretaries and other accounting officers spent another Sh20bn. Maina said these were spent illegally to push for public support for the process that was declared unconstitutional by three superior courts of law. "...the BBI Secretariat and Principal secretaries applied and diverted public funds into the BBI process, you have a constitutional obligation to undertake an audit of the accounts or the BBI Steering Committee and Taskforce, the BBI Secretariat and Principal Secretaries for possible misuse and wastage of public funds," Maina said. "We, therefore, request that you do undertake an audit of all expenditures incurred on the BBI." She said as Kenya Kwanza Alliance, they are committed to ensuring that every coin that belongs to the people of Kenya is used lawfully. "The Kenyan people look up to you, to exercise your constitutional mandate in establishing the culprits," she added. Ruto openly criticised the Building Bridges Initiative. He was of the opinion that the initiative is after creating positions for a few at a time when many Kenyans needed economic empowerment. The shutting down of the initiative by the Supreme Court of Kenya on Thursday somewhat vindicated him after having been attacked for opposing the Bill. The DP now wants President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Handshake brother Raila Odinga to apologise for wasting four years pushing for the bill. More to follow