Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich now stands a chance to succeed his boss, Governor Alex Tolgos, after winning the UDA ticket. Tolgos is completing his second term during which he appointed Rotich as his deputy. The two however later fell out politically but two years ago, he declared interest to succeed his boss and many thought he was a greenhorn in politics not capable of making it. “Am grateful to the people of Elgeyo Marakwet,” Rotich said after receiving the UDA nomination certificate. He defeated former IG Joseph Boinnet and several other aspirants who were seeking the UDA ticket. Rotich thanked residents for their support during the campaigns. He got more than 42,000 votes while Boinnet came in second with about 32,000 votes. Those allied to Boinett claimed the nominations were tampered with but UDA officials said the results were credible and verifiable. Boinnet was expected to issue a statement on the outcome. Others who lost in the race included educationist Josphat Sawe, businessman Julius Tangus and University don Hellen Jemencho. Rotich frequently visited Kerio Valley to stand with residents following increased banditry attacks. The gesture endeared him to voters and seems to have paid off. The 34-year-old was appointed by Tolgos as director of co-operatives in Elgeyo Marakwet and later picked him as his deputy. After he differed with his boss, he faced challenges including working without office staff and at times forced to operate without an official car. “I thank God and the friends who have stood with me. I am humbled and will always stand with the people of Elgeyo Marakwet,” Rotich said. During a recent interview with the Star, Tolgos said he had no personal issues with the deputy governor and wished him well together with other aspirants. Tolgos said he would not come out to support any of the aspirants and he was ready to hand over to whoever would be elected. The region is largely dominated by UDA and the chances of Rotich winning are quite high.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris