Construction of the Sh17 billion road in Lamu, suspended for two months because of terrorism, is to resume next week. But workers are demanding KDF camps along the route; the government says it has ensured workers' safety with more patrols. Works on the Lamu-Ijara-Garissa Lapsset Corridor access road were halted following a spate of attacks on construction workers. Five men were killed several vehicles torched by suspected al Shabaab militants. The 257-kilometre road is being undertaken by the China Communications Construction Company Limited. The project that started in April 2021 is currently at 40 per cent completion and initially was estimated to take 24 months. Speaking on Thursday, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said the government has mobilised enough resources and taken adequate measures to ensure workers' safety. He said subcontractors were already assessing the situation on the ground and works will commence immediately after Idd ul Fitr festivities. “We have taken adequate security measures. We have also engaged the contractor and assured him of the same," Macharia said. "We have also increased security patrols on the sites. We are awaiting the end of Idd festivities to resume." The project is part of the Sh17.9 billion Lapsset Development Road Project network covering 453-kilometres. The project includes another 113km Hindi-Bodhei-Basuba-Kiunga road and an 83km Ijara-Sanghailu-Hulugho section. All cut across Boni forest where militants hide and from which they launch attacks. Workers said they would not set foot on the sites unless their government meets their 'irreducible demands'. They include establishment of KDF camps along the Lapsset corridor access route. “Our colleagues were killed as we watched. It’s not enough for the government to say they have taken security measures. We want to see KDF camps before we go there,"a worker seeking anonymity said. "If those are the measures, the government is talking about, then we agree. Otherwise, we are not going anywhere." Despite being jobless, the workers refuse to set foot in Boni forest. “I won’t go back there no matter how much money they promise. It’s not worth it and they know it,” another worker said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)