Jimmy Kibaki, the son of the former late President Emilio Mwai Kibaki, on Saturday, eulogised his father as a strict father who did not entertain poor performance. While addressing mourners in Othaya on Saturday during the burial service, Jimmy said that Kibaki was annoyed by his poor grade in his second year of high school studies. "My dad wanted me to pursue a life of excellence like he did, but in many instances, he felt that I fell short of that," Jimmy said. The scion narrated that his father threatened him that he will repeat his class in the event he keeps on with dismal performance. "My parents took academics graciously...my life with my father was a game of cat and mouse," Jimmy said. Jimmy said a number of times, he had several run-ins with his father who was always keen on ensuring that he maintains good morals. "Growing up under your care and guidance was like living under a giant umbrella," Jimmy said in his message. He continued that: "Why can’t you come home at a respectable time? Respectable people are home by mid night. He told me its only crooks, and vagabonds who go out parading at all hours of the night. He told from now when you go out, be home at 1am the latest." Here is Jimmy Kibaki's tribute to his father: It is not easy to put into words what you meant to me and my life. From the moment I was born, you cast an immense larger-than-life presence in my life. Growing up under your care and guidance was like living under a giant umbrella. I always felt safe and protected and loved. There are many lessons you taught me over the years, but the biggest lesson was in the realm of leadership. By the example of your exemplary life, you taught me that a leader is a person who can paint a picture that will cause people to leave their present to pursue their future. You taught me that true leaders do not rule by force or intimidation, but by inspiration. Your life in itself is an inspiration to millions and millions of Kenyans - men, women, children -who looked up to you for guidance, wisdom, and leadership. We always felt safe knowing that you were there. Rest in peace, my beloved father. On behalf of a grateful nation, I say “Thank you, Sir!".