ODM party supporters in Nyakach, and Nyando constituencies, Kisumu County protested over alleged plans by party’s national election board to issue direct certificates to certain aspirants. They accused the election board of relying on manipulated opinion polls favouring specific candidates, especially the incumbents. In Sondu, Katito and Ahero towns, businesses were temporarily brought to standstill as disgruntled supporters took to the streets to expressed their displeasure in the ongoing efforts by ODM to effects consensus. The agitated supporters lit bonfires on the roads demanding ODM party to implement universal suffrage to allow them elect leaders of their choice. They protested the plans to impose leaders on residents which they claim would deny them right to democratically elect leaders based on their ideologies. The protestors threatened to reject ODM aspirants at the ballot and opt for any other candidate. They claimed that they would even cast their votes for local seats to UDA candidates to protest what they term as shambolic nomination exercise by the ODM party. David Owino, a voter at South West Nyakach claimed that they had already received reports that the party had already settled on sitting MP Aduma Owuor to fly its ticket. “We are wondering what is happening at Orange House. We have been waiting for nominations but we are getting reports that the party is now relying on opinion polls to settle on its candidate,” Owino said. He claimed that the decision was ill-thought of and expressed fears that it could result to voter apathy which will have a ripple effect on Raila Odinga’s presidential ambitions. Maureen Atieno, another protester in Sondu claimed that issuing direct tickets to specific candidates would be disastrous for the party and the Nyanza region at large. “We will not accept anyone given direct ticket by the party. We must allow all ODM members to cast their vote and decide their who will fly the party’s ticket,” she said. As the protestors took to the streets, some of the aspirants retreated back to the constituency to draw up new plans in the race for the parliamentary seat. Vincent Kodera who is eyeing to unseat Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor claimed that the party was relying on a flawed opinion poll to select its candidate. Other candidates are Jonathan Opande, Ocholla Yellow, former Nyakach MP Ochieng Daima and Captain Tom Osimbo, Collins Apuoyo and Sam Osamba. Kodera questioned the criteria that was used to conduct the polls and alleged that not all aspirants were included in the list. “ODM should conduct proper nominations for democracy to prevail. The opinion poll that the party is relying on is actually doctored,” said Kodera. He pointed an accusing finger at rogue party officials whom he claimed could have allowed underhand dealings to influence the opinion polls. According to Kodera, the party is favouring Aduma whom he described as “very unpopular who cannot even garner 30 percent of the Nyakach voting bloc and thus should not be forced down people’s throats”. He challenged the party to rectify the mess, arguing that the move by the party to conduct a fresh opinion poll is baseless and a public gimmick. Kodera is however still optimistic that he will win the party’s ticket. He said they will go to people for further direction. He said they are not party rebels but all they are pleading for is free, fair and credible ODM nominations. "We hope that the internal party democracy will still be used to amicable settle the nominations issue" Kodera said. He added, "ODM was founded on democratic ideals and all the six aspirants seeking to unseat the incumbent are all life members of the party and we do not want to feel like this is not the right party for us.” In Nyando, tension was high as supporters of aspirants keen on unseating current MP Jared Okello took to the streets to protest claims that the party had planned to hand Okello a direct ticket. Former Kisumu chief of staff Patrick Ouya alias Kalausi eyes to unseat Okello. Police had to intervene to quell the tensions even as the protestors claimed that democracy within ODM had been put on trial. They carried placards demanding for a free and fair nomination exercise. Tom Odwar, a voter in Nyando claimed that the issue of direct tickets would hurt their quest to participate in a free and fair nomination exercise. He questioned how the party conducted the opinion polls it is relying on to settle on its candidate. According to Odwar, all those who paid nomination fees should be allowed to be on the ballot to allow their supporters to cast their votes for them. “We want to line up and select our candidate through universal suffrage. We will support whoever wins,” he said. But he is not alone, others also poked holes in the opinion polls the party has centered its nomination exercise on and claimed that they are in the dark. “Where was this opinion polls done? Who participated? Let the people decide,” posed Kevin Ambulo. A voter, Richard Omoro, condemned the issuance of direct ticket saying it was denying them opportunity to directly elect leaders they want. He called NEB chairperson Catherine Muma to listen to their plight and allow them participate in nomination. “We are not aware of this opinion polls. We did not even participate on it or saw people who were conducting the opinion poll,” Omoro added.