It is all systems go for the Tuesday ODM party nominations in Kisumu as everything has been put in place to ensure the process is smooth, National Elections Board Commissioner Syntei Nchoe has said. A total of 1,200 police officers will provide security across the county during the process that will begin at 6 am and end at 4 pm. The officers will be stationed where the exercise will be undertaken. The nominations will be conducted in Kisumu Central, Kisumu East, Muhoroni and Nyakach for MPs position as well as senate and women representative seats including MCAs across the 35 wards. MCA results will be announced at the polling Centre, while Tom Mboya Labour college will be the tallying Centre and will be opened from 5 pm after voting ends in the polling centres. Nchoe was speaking during a meeting with aspirants at Mama Grace Onyango Social Hall ahead of the Tuesday primaries. The Agenda for the meeting included issues of security, polling centres, elections officials and methods of voting among others. Nchoe noted that aspirants who will cause violence during the process will be automatically disqualified. During the meeting, aspirants raised questions on how the returning officers (RO) were sourced, concerns over the merging of polling centres and the gadgets to be used. In response, the commissioner said that no RO has been deployed in Kisumu. "I have not deployed any RO to Kisumu yet, if anyone has been going around purporting to be a county returning officer for me or for the NEB, I will need that person arrested." She added that the recruitment and training of ROs were done through a strict verification system adding that ROs from Kisumu will not preside over the primaries. She also told the aspirant that at the start of the polling, they have a poll opening form which will show they have not started an election. "Your agents will sign that this is the time the polling centre is opening and nothing has started yet," Nchoe told the aspirants She noted that the gadgets to be used at polling centres will be fairly distributed across the wards and constituencies to favour everyone. "We cannot disadvantage any particular aspirant when we can actually provide a credible process," she said. On the gadgets, she noted that they are configured to work only at the designated polling centre adding that they will be deployed depending on the number of voters in a centre. "Using an electronic device does not allow anyone to tamper with the results. We only have our IT people operating that device". She further stated that only one agent will be allowed inside the voting centre. At the tallying centre, she said only one chief agent and an aspirant will be allowed in. Interim certificates will be issued to the winners once the process ends.