WhatsApp desktop recently launched an update whereby one can use the application on their computer without having their phone connected. What this means is that even if one’s phone is far away, the application can function well on a desktop or laptop computer. Jessica had been hanging out with her boyfriend, Charles. Unknown to her, Charles was harbouring insecurities that he never spoke about. He was suspicious that she was cheating on him. At some point during their meet-up, she needed to use the washroom, so, she left him with her phone. Since she had nothing to hide from him, he had access to her phone’s password. He opened it, logged in to her WhatsApp and connected it to his PC. By doing so, he could access her messages anytime he wanted to, provided he did not switch off his device. Jessica returned and got back her phone unaware that her privacy had been breached. They enjoyed the rest of their time together, then left for home later in the evening. When Charles got home, he took his sweet time to go through as many of her conversations as he could. All this while, Jessica’s phone notified her that it was connected to WhatsApp desktop, but she assumed it was on her PC. A few days later, Jessica tried logging onto the desktop app but could not. Her device declined the login, stating that she was already logged in on another device. It was at that moment that she joined the dots. She called Charles and asked him to log her credentials out of his device, to which he obliged. Later on, she got back to him to ask why he was stalking her. It was at that point that he came clean and stated that he was insecure and thought he should find out if anything was going on. Of course, this did not go down well. It was the first step in a journey of a thousand that saw him get dumped. With such advances in technology, it is easy for those around us to breach our privacy and do harmful things. I can imagine what kind of trouble Jessica would have been in, if Charles decided to use her account to send insulting or obscene messages to people. How would she explain that it was not her who did that? Email is also another platform where this can happen. Whenever one logs onto the platform using a device, their data remains there even after they log out. One has to remove the account from the device so as to be sure that it cannot be accessed. Couples who have issues should also be candid and have open discussions. Charles having had his wrong suspicions that he was being cheated on had the option of openly stating his concerns as opposed to going behind Jessica’s back to tap into her account. It would even be better for him to ask her to open her messages herself – there’s no guarantee she would, but it would be more respectful to do so. Technology predisposes us to such risks. It is, therefore, incumbent on us all to be extra cautious with the security of our devices.