President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday presented the national flag to the Kenyan team that will represent the country at this year’s Summer Deaflympics in the Brazilian town of Caxias do Sul. Speaking during the ceremony at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru commended the team for proving that in Kenya “disability is not inability”. Uhuru assured the team of maximum support from the Government as well as the citizens, expressing optimism that they will bring pride to the country. “We will be supporting you, we shall be cheering you all the way. We believe and trust that you will bring glory back to your country," Uhuru added. The Head of State urged the team to be the country’s ambassadors at the Deaflympics, saying they will not only be representing the disabled population but the entire Kenyan population. “You will be out there as ambassadors of every single one of us and how you hold yourself by playing clean, how you uphold your dignity while you are out there and your discipline – all these will reflect not just on you but on your country,” he said. Uhuru added that he was proud of the manner in which Kenya’s sporting capability has developed, citing the international sporting events the country has hosted in the recent past including the IAAF Under-18 World Championships and the World Under-20 Championships. “Kenya is moving forward. Our rugby teams have performed very well. Our teams at the Olympics – both the disabled category and the abled category – have brought glory to our country,” he said. He said that the Government is also working towards creating facilities that will continue nurturing the sporting talents in the country. Sports CS Amina Mohamed said through the Sports, Art and Social Development Fund, that the sports teams that represent the country in regional and international competitions are now well catered for and adequately prepared to fly the national flag with pride and honour. “This team, which has been in camp since April 4, has received adequate preparation and is ready to break the 2017 record of 17 medals,” CS Amina said. Mohamed said the team has undergone sensitization on anti-doping, regulations on mental health and media relations so as to enable them to represent the country well. Present were Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, Principal Secretaries Josephat Mukobe (Culture and Heritage) and Joe Okudo (Sports).