The last few months have been difficult for many Kenyans. The rising cost of living has seen essential household goods like milk, bread, sugar, and flour rise sporadically. In the middle of this economic turmoil, the transport sector was for days plagued with fuel crises characterized by shortages in several parts of the country. Transport chargers hiked in consequence of the fuel crisis. This brought about a ripple effect on small-medium businessmen who have been forced to increase the prices of basic items such as vegetables, milk and eggs to remain afloat in the emerging cruel business environment. The high cost of fertilizer and harsh weather conditions exacerbated the already worse situation as farmers could not venture into their production activities and keep up with the demand and supply curve. Jack Kuria, a member of the South Kinangop Farmers Association, says they were incurring huge losses in ferrying their produce to the market. He noted that transporters increased the transport cost since the fuel crisis started two weeks ago forcing them to pass the costs to consumers. “We have been forced to increase the prices of food prices due to a rise in transport cost and this is adversely affecting the agriculture sector,” he said. Martha Wanjiru, 33, a single mother of four, told the Star that she had to celebrate Easter at home due to the rising cost of living in Kenya’s capital. “I have a lot to think about. Schools open next week and I had to forgo the festivities in order to plan how my children will go back to school. We had no option and they had to understand,” she said. Murage John, 47, a matatu operator in the CBD, said that over the Easter period, the number of customers greatly reduced compared to other Easter periods. “I believe people are tired, mentally, physically, emotionally and their finances are not so well. Many Kenyans opted to stay at home instead of travelling,” Murage said. “We did not make many trips as we normally do over the weekend.” Rita Kanana, 25, a student at Meru Technical University told the Star that Easter was like any other day as they stayed at home with her family. ''We called a few of my relatives over the phone and wished them happy Easter and that was it. On Sunday, my family and I went to church then afterward we made lunch, that was it," Kanana said. "I hope this economic strain will not last forever. There is no money, everyone is stressed, what is there to celebrate?"