Rafa Nadal is still uncertain when he can return to competitive tennis after withdrawing from this month’s ATP event in Barcelona as he recovers from a rib injury, his team told Reuters on Tuesday. The Spaniard, who has won 21 Grand Slam singles titles, was ruled out last month for up to six weeks with a stress fracture in his rib. The 35-year-old has withdrawn from this month’s Barcelona Open “Rafa has just been withdrawn from the entry list in Barcelona,” the team said in a statement sent to Reuters. “We don’t know yet when he will be at his first tournament on clay this year. Hopefully, soon.” Nadal complained of a chest issue during his run to the final of the ATP 1000 event in Indian Wells, California last month. Tests in Barcelona revealed “a stress fracture of the third left costal arch”. Madrid and Rome host ATP Masters 1000 events next month and Nadal would be hoping to participate to get matches under his belt before the May 22-June 5 French Open, which he has won a record 13 times. Elsewhere, Stan Wawrinka marked his return to Tour-level competition for the first time in 13 months by showing glimpses of his old form but the Swiss failed to get past Alexander Bublik in the first round of the Monte Carlo Masters, losing 3-6 7-5 6-2 on Monday. The three-time Grand Slam champion suffered a foot injury early in 2021 and had surgery in March last year before another operation three months later, only returning to action at a Challenger Tour tournament in Marbella last month. While the 37-year-old was beaten in the first round of that event, there were few signs of rustiness against world number 36 Bublik on Court Rainier III as he raced through the first set in only 27 minutes to seize the early advantage in the contest. Wawrinka, the 2014 champion, squandered an opportunity to break Bublik early in the second set and staved off three set points to hold for 5-5 but could not prevent his determined Kazakh opponent from taking the contest into a decider. Bublik surged to a 5-1 lead in the final set as Wawrinka faded before the 24-year-old closed out the victory and offered a scathing assessment of his own performance.