Ulinzi Stars head coach Benjamin Nyangweso is crossing his fingers in anticipation that the newly unveiled Ulinzi Sports Complex in Nairobi's Lang'ata Barracks will relieve them of the incessant headache of groping for a stable home ground. The gaffer spoke during an exclusive interview on Thursday, a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta officially commissioned the historic military multi-sports complex. The facility boasts of a 10,000-seater football stadium with a state-of-the-art running track. It also has an aquatic centre with an Olympic size swimming pool, an indoor arena as well as a tennis court that took 16 months to construct. “We all hope that our team will be allowed to use the pitch for our home matches. Such discussions have already begun and we pray that we receive some good feedback,” Nyangweso said. “Obviously, that won't be as soon as we would wish because some protocol must be observed in the process which requires time. But we are hoping for the best,” Nyangweso said. The soldiers have been forced to host their home fixtures in different venues after the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee declared Nakuru's ASK grounds unsuitable for top-flight matches owing to its pathetic playing surface. Ulinzi, who have been blowing hot and cold this season, meet Nairobi City Stars in their next league encounter in one of the matches primed for Monday. In another development, the match pitting AFC Leopards against Wazito has been pushed back to Monday. Leopards honcho Dan Shikanda confirmed the changes, saying that their traditional home ground Nyayo National Stadium and Moi Stadium Kasarani have both been booked for weekend activities. “Nyayo is hosting the Barthes Cup matches that began on Saturday while Moi Stadium Kasarani has been set aside for Police events from Friday through Sunday. It, therefore, means we can only host our league match in either facilities from Monday,” Shikanda said. Shikanda said they had initiated talks with Sports Kenya who manage the two facilities to deliberate on the possibility of being allowed to use the stadia as soon as they become available. “We've been told that Nyayo won’t be available even on Monday because personnel will be busy removing the rugby materials and then have it rest after being used for five consecutive days. Leopards are ninth on the KPL log with 34 points. Champions Tusker will seek to close the gap on runaway leaders Kakamega Homeboyz when they renew rivalry with Gor Mahia at Narok Stadium on Saturday a week after the sides settled for a barren draw at Thika Stadium.