National under 20 head coach Robert Ngisirei has implored junior sprinters in Nyanza North to up their game and restore the glory of the region in sprints and field events. Ngisirei said it is a long time coming since the region produced world beaters in these athletics categories and urged upcoming athletes to reawaken the sleeping giant. "This region used to dominate in heptathlon and decathlon...what happened along the way? You have the challenge to reclaim this dominance. It is possible for you to reawaken this sleeping giant," Ngisirei said. He urged them to follow in the footsteps of their fellow native of the region, Alice Adala, who was the first Kenyan female athlete to set two national records in 100m (11.7) and 200m (24.3). "You are lucky to have someone close to you who has been there and done that. She is evidence there is so much talent in this region in terms of sprints and field events. Just like her, you can bring glory to this region," the former 800m runner said. However, Ngisirei added there needs to be a change of mentality before success can materialise. "Change your mentality first because if you are mentally stoic, then your feet will definitely take you places. Success will only come through hard work and competing clean. I don't want to tire you with many words but I wish you the best," he said. Ngisirei was speaking at Sang'oro Secondary School in Kisumu County during a visit by Athletics Kenya youth development sub-committee officials and media to a training camp for junior sprinters and field athletes in the area. The camp is among 26 established countrywide during the long school holidays to prepare junior athletes for upcoming competitions including the World Under 20 Championships (Cali, Colombia) and the Africa Youth Games to be held in Cairo. Speaking at the same time, AK youth development sub-committee secretary, Joseph Ilovi, urged the juniors to dream big beyond competing at the regional and national championships. "Those of you who were in Nairobi last time for the national Under 20 trials know how wonderful it feels to make it to that stage. You are given a VIP treatment...now imagine boarding a plane and going to Colombia. We want to see Kenya represented in the sprints in Cali," Ilovi said. He further announced that the training camps are just a tip of the iceberg of what the federation have lined up to nurture talent from the grassroots. "How I pray these athletes return the region to its former glory in sprints and field events. As AK, we have set our minds on developing the youth. These camps will not stop simply because there is no youth or junior championships. We will also continue following up on you guys even when you transition to senior ranks because we do not want you to stop at the junior level," he said. 