The public viewing of the late former President Mwai Kibaki will be paused for some minutes (10-15) on Wednesday to pave the way for the National Assembly Speaker’s procession for a special sitting. The temporary pause would be to allow for the National Assembly mace to be taken to the chamber for the plenary debate in line with the tradition of the August House. Members of the National Assembly have been called for the special sitting to pay special tribute to the late former President. The Order Paper indicates that MPs would gather to record honour and tribute of the House as is the tradition when a former head of state is lying in state. “Following the Presidential Proclamation of 22nd April 2022 regarding the passing on of His Excellency Emilio Mwai Kibaki…the tributes of this House be recorded in special honour of the late retired President,” the motion reads in part. The debate, as per the notice, would be centred on Kibaki’s “long and uninterrupted service in the National Assembly, his selfless service to the Republic, and exemplary accomplishments for the country.” MPs are also due to discuss the former President’s role in shepherding Kenya into a new constitutional dispensation in 2010 and his patriotism. He would also be hailed for his “role in promoting socio-economic growth and development of the Republic of Kenya and the East African Region.” The House leadership says all is set for MPs to travel to the capital for the sitting. They are currently on recess and are scheduled to resume normal sittings on May 10, 2022. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai said the sitting would proceed even as members of the public continue to view the body of the late president. There would, however, be a temporary break to allow the Speaker’s procession – a traditional escort of the mace, at the start of a sitting. It takes about five minutes or so. “The viewing will continue in the morning. There will be a short break for the House to sit. It is to allow members to access the chamber after which members of the public will proceed with the viewing,” Sialai said. “It is one way of putting us together. We’ll have to suspend just for a few minutes to allow the speaker’s processing. It is a fusion between the public and us. We will be debating the same matter as the public views the body.” Members would after the sitting escort the body, being its last day of the public viewing at the August House. “We will escort the body after 5 pm,” the clerk said. Senators on Tuesday also took a break from normal business to reflect on the life and times of the departed former head of state. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the House Business Committee held a meeting Tuesday morning and resolved to defer the regular business. "... to afford the Senate and indeed Senators an opportunity to eulogize the departed President and condole with his family and the nation," he said. The motion was moved by Senate Majority leader Samuel Phogisio who relived the moments of his appointment to steer the Information ministry. “I had joined the government ranks and the rest of Rift Valley was in the opposition ranks. I had trouble travelling to my constituency. I was extremely grateful to have worked with him,” he said. Phogisio hailed Kibaki for accepting to work with ODM leader Raila Odinga at the height of the post-poll chaos saying the decision restored calm in the country. “We come to mourn a hero in his own right. In a moment of crisis in 2007-08, he stood tall and saved the country,” the West Pokot Senator said. He said the tributes would continue for the entire period the body of Kibaki will be lying in state at Parliament buildings. Minority leader James Orengo (Siaya Senator) said Kibaki would be remembered for how much he loved the institution of Parliament. “He debated effortlessly and very eloquently. He agreed with Parliament whenever the executive was up to some sinister plans,” Orengo said, citing the former President’s effort in the establishment of CDF. Senators praised the former president for being steadfast in reviving the country's economy, peace efforts, and conserving the environment. President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on Monday led the nation in mourning the late president. The former president’s remains are set to be interred next to his late wife Mama Lucy at their Othaya home in Nyeri county on Saturday. Kibaki has been eulogized as a leader who left a legacy of strong economic growth and boosted the education and health sectors. Members of the public trooped to Parliament for the third day in their droves to pay their last respects to the departed former head of state. Kibaki died on April 22 aged 90 years. He served as the country’s third president from the year 2003 to 2012.