Hunger is ever present. Chuphi Mgandi, 41, from Mackinnon in Kinango is fasting but that's what he does anyhow, almost every day, Holy Month of Ramadhan or not The farmer told the Star in Kwale he does not know what he will eat in the evening as Muslims across the world break their fast with an Iftar supper of many delicious foods, fruits, cakes and dates symbolising sweetness. And before dawn a filling breakfast before a long day of fasting. As other families in town take their Iftar with a modest or grand meal, Mgandi's family has no option. Some families eat a few dates and drink water; others eat porridge. Magadi said he does not know the difference between the Holy Month of Ramadhan and other 'normal' days. They are all days of hunger. He also lacks enough water to wash before prayers. Their situation is due to the drought in Kinango after the rains failed last year, he said. "I don't see any difference. I used to starve then and in this Ramadhan. I eat the little I get," he said. Mgandi has five children and one of them is suffering from epilepsy and paralysis. Mgandi said in the evening during Iftar, they survive on plain ugali and sometimes  just take black tea with a few slices of bread. Other people have lavish meals. They do not have suhur (food taken in the morning before fasting). It helps to reduce crankiness and thirst for the person who is fasting. It is also perceived as a blessing known as Sunnah by the Islamic community. Sunnah are the deeds or way of life of the Prophet Muhammad that are emulated by Muslims. With the high cost of living and increased food prices, Mgandi cannot afford to buy  food for the family and cater for their medication. Ali Jogoo Abdallah from Msambweni is also condemned to the same rigorous observances. Abdallah, 45, is battling stomach cancer and lost his job because of his condition. He is a father of seven and all of them depend on him. As other Muslims feast on plenty Abdallah’s family struggles. The Holy Month of Ramadhan is known to be a time to help the poor but even better-off Muslims have a hard time being charitable as in the past. High prices have limited charity, if not good will. Mgandi said his children depend on food brought to the mosques by other well-wishers. He said his children join other Muslims in breaking their fast at the mosque. "They normally look for mosques that have food and eat there," he said. The majority of places of worship during Ramadhan give dates and snacks to help people break their fast. The food is often distributed as Sadaqa (charity) by those who can afford it. Mgandi said not all days are good; sometimes his children miss the food and return hungry as they pray for a better tomorrow. Abdallah has to beg from politicians, friends and a few relatives to help. Help only lasts for a few days, then he implores again. "I ask for some food and money for medication from various leaders enough to last several days," he said. Abdallah said sometimes he gets nothing and his family sleeps on an empty stomach. Despite suffering from the cancer, Abdallah prefers fasting to be closer to God, and save the little food for the evening. With his condition, proper diet, a healthy lifestyle, and medication are required but poverty makes them impossible. Mgandi ior years depended on farming to look after his family. Unfortunately, the crops didn't do well for three consecutive seasons due to prolonged drought. He also lost his livestock because of the dry weather. Kwale is among the ASAL counties hit by drought rid and Semi-arid counties that were hard hit by drought. Earlier Red Cross statistics showed that at least 200,000 people in the region were facing hunger. "It's a big blow for us, no food to eat and no money to sustain ourselves," he said. He said although it has been raining for three days it is inadequate to support vegetation. His sick child also requires money for physiotherapy and expansive medicine. Mgandi said he tries to at least get two weeks' doses for his sick child. For the rest of the days, he crosses his fingers and asks God to spare his son from frequent convulsions. For Abdallah, the medical bills are a burden. Most of the time he relies on traditional herbs to treat his cancer. Abdallah said sometimes he uses preserved powdered spices to suppress pain. The national government in February launched a food relief distribution program targeting Kwale's 26,000 families. The food was distributed to the most affected people to cushion them from the effects of drought. The supplies  were equally distributed to all the five sub-counties of Kinango, Lunga-Lunga, Msambweni, Matuga and Samburu. However, Mgandi and Abdallah claimed that they were not included, Ccounty commissioner Gideon Oyagi said the food was being distributed in phases, prioritising the most needy families. Oyagi spoke during the official launch of the food relief distribution programme at Nyumba Mbovu in Msambweni. Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna also assured that the state will provide more food and support affected families until things return to normal. (Edited by V. Graham)