Police in Ndhiwa are looking for two suspects who were mentioned over the stabbing of cattle in three villages in Kabuoch South ward. The two suspects escaped after Jabez Ochieng’ said they were his accomplices in attacking cattle in homesteads during the night. Ochieng, 22, was lynched by angry villagers on Sunday morning in Kaguria, Kabuoch South. He was forced to name those he allegedly carried out the attacks with. Cases of stabbing of cattle have become rampant in Homa Bay and Migori counties. The attackers stab the animals in their bellies. South Kabuoch senior chief Bob Ouma said on Monday 10 cattle were attacked in three villages in the area. The villages are Otochogo, Kitanda C and Kirindo. Ouma said four died as a result of stabbing. The suspects were also accused of attacking and killing three sheep in Kaguria village within the area. “Jabez was caught after a cow that was stabbed mooed loudly. The owner raised the alarm and he was caught,” Ouma said. The administrator said Jabez was slashed and stoned to death by a mob after he tried to escape into a sugarcane plantation. Ouma said the deceased had previously been accused of stealing house items in the area. “The deceased admitted and named two of his accomplices before he was lynched. The people he mentioned fled,” Ouma said. Residents whose animals were stabbed-Duncan Odongo and Roselyn Oyoko-said they incurred huge losses. Odongo said two of his bulls he was using in ploughing his land were stabbed. “My bulls have been helping me in land cultivation. I will no longer use them because they are injured,” Odongo said. Oyoko asked security officers to help them eradicate the attackers. “Many people depend on the animals for their livelihoods. Security officers should act swiftly and arrest the suspects who fled,” Oyoko said. Assistant county commissioner Moses Atupamoi urged residents to furnish police with any information on the whereabouts of the two suspects. He also asked residents not to take the law into their own hands by lynching suspects. “Veterinary officers have treated some cattle by stitching them. It’s unfortunate that some cattle have died,” Atupamoi said. Edited by A.N