Weeks after being dethroned as the Africa Zone 3 super heavyweight champion, Hit Squad pugilist Elly Ajowi is already hammering away in the gym with his sights firmly trained on Africa and Commonwealth Games. Ajowi gave up his regional bragging rights after stumbling out in the semis of the just concluded Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa Congo but he is not ready to let that setback crush his resolve. The burly lethal puncher describes his encounter in Kinshasa as a lesson-laden experience which he will definitely capitalise on as he sets his sights on the Birmingham Club Games in July. “Losing is part of the game. I can't spend time lamenting about the lost opportunity. There are other competitions ahead which I've shifted my focus to, including the Africa Games in Cameroon and the Commonwealth Games,” Ajowi said. “I'm already in training. Even though I failed to defend my title in Kinshasa, I gathered a measure of considerable experience." However, Ajowi says he is not quaking in his boots over anyone in particular. “I'm not training with a specific opponent in mind. That's because you can't afford to underrate any opponent,” he said. The 38-year-old National Police Service Corporal has already expressed a desire to quit the ring after the Commonwealth Games. “I intend to retire immediately after the Commonwealth Games. I believe I have achieved a lot and it's high time I created some room in the ring for budding boxers,” he said. Ajowi says he hopes to strut to the winner's podium in Birmingham as he eyes one last vintage performance to end his career on a high. Afterwards, the soft-spoken pugilist says, I hope to mentor the youth of Dandora where his humble beginnings can be traced. “Upon retirement, I'd like to help develop youths from Dandora, where my career began,” said Ajowi. “I'm training my sights on taking up a coaching role once I hang up my gloves. I'm yet to train as a coach but that is part of my immediate plans. I didn't get an opportunity to join the group that trained for AIBA 1 certification course in Nairobi.” “However, BFK has plans to roll out a follow-up program in the near future and I hope to be involved,” added Ajowi.