The twists and turns that fans have experienced over the years as the European football season heads towards the climax have once again lived up to the billing. With just over a month before the 2022 campaign comes to a close, none of the important trophies have yet been secured. Real Madrid, Bayern Munich, and PSG are likely to claim their respective championships in the early weeks of May. In Italy and England, however, the races remain too close to call. English Premier League Southampton vs Arsenal (Saturday 5 pm) Prediction (Saints..1- Gunners ...1) The Arsenal seem to have lost their mojo at the worst possible time. The Gunners looked to be in the driving seat to claim a top-four spot in March after a run of five straight wins. A run of three defeats in their last four games has allowed their opponents to reel them in. They have a chance to return to winning ways against an abject Southampton side who were on the receiving end of a 6-0 mauling by Chelsea. Against a dispirited Arsenal, Ralph Hassenhutl's charges are likely to be as pliant as they were at St.Mary's last weekend. Italian Serie 'A' Spezia vs Inter Milan (Friday 8 pm) Prediction: Spezia ..0 Inter...3 Champions Inter Milan were the biggest winners in the race for the Scudetto last weekend as their rivals faltered. Simoni Inzaghi's charges took all three points to move to within two points of top spot with a game in hand. Today,they take on Spezia needing victory to ascend to the summit of the Serie A table with six matches left to play. This is an opportunity the Nerrrazuri have been waiting for and one that they are unlikely to let go to waste. AC Milan vs Genoa (Friday 10 pm) Prediction; Milan...3   Genoa...0 This championship has had the Rosonerri written all over it since day one of the campaign. But seemingly AC Milan do not have the belief to make this a reality. They have let their neighbours close in on them and when they get to the pitch at the San Siro, they might do so from the second spot. To return to the top, they will need to beat a relegation-threatened Genoa side. It's an opportunity they dare not miss. Napoli vs AS Roma(Monday 10pm) Prediciton Napoli...1 Roma...1 Not since the Halcyon days of Diego Maradona have Napoli looked so much like champions in waiting. But like they have done in the few occasions since the legendary Argentine left, the Partenopei have once again shot themselves in the foot. They were at home needing to win to move top of the Serie A last weekend, only to be beaten. On Monday, they have an even trickier match to navigate through to remain within striking distance of the top spot. Jose Mourinho's Roma will be in town looking to cement their push for a top-four finish. FA CUP Manchester City vs Liverpool (Saturday 5.30 pm) Prediction: City...0 Liverpool ...2 Two of the best teams in Europe currently, meet up again seven days after their thrilling four-goal draw in the league last Sunday. The duo, both of whom are on course to achieve history will look to do damage to their rivals' aspirations. They meet at the neutral Wembley ground looking to take their thrilling rivalry a notch higher. The city will likely be without talismanic midfielder Kevin De Bruyne in what will be a huge blow. It's widely expected that whoever wins this match will surely hold aloft the FA Cup in the last week of May. Chelsea vs Crystal Palace(Sunday 6 pm) Prediction: Blues ... 1  Palace....2 The Blues surrendered their European crown on Tuesday but did so in the best possible way. They won at the Santiago Bernabeu just days after swatting aside Southampton in the league. They come up against a Crystal Palace side keen to rekindle the glory days of the nineties when they would regularly fight for domestic trophies