Boat operators in Lamu have complained of being barred from hiking transport fees despite the fuel crisis in the country. They say they purchase fuel at a high price but they are forced to carry passengers at the normal boat rates, leaving them in losses. Their efforts to increased fare to match the cost of fuel have continuously been frustrated by state officials. Lamu boat operators chairperson Awadh Hassan says the situation has forced many of them to temporarily quit the trade fearing further losses. “People are not making any profit at all and any effort to increase the fare has been met with resistance. Most operators have decided to park their boats and go home," Awadh said. On normal days, a litre of petrol goes for Sh140 but due to the fuel crisis it has shot to Sh250. The operators said they have been warned by security officers against any attempts to hike fares. Awadh said the situation is unfair to boat operators because boda boda  and public service vehicles are allowed to hike fares. “We definitely can’t buy fuel at that price and still maintain normal charges,” he said. He divulged that there is a meeting between boat operators and state officials next week to deliberate over the issue. Lamu coxswain Ahmed Musa said if all goes well, the boat fares will likely go up by an extra Sh50 or Sh100 depending on the fuel type, destination and type of boat. Musa says speed boats which are faster are likely to charge higher since they cover long distances faster while slower motorboats with a lower engine power will charge slightly lower. “As we wait for the crisis to be addressed, we can’t help but increase the fares. Thats actually non-negotiable considering the high cost of fuel,” Musa said. In his response, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia dismissed allegations that state officials had barred boat operators from hiking fares. “That is not true. This is a free market for them. You can’t be purchasing fuel for Sh200 and charge the same amount when ferrying passengers. So, they are free to add something on top provided their business remains afloat," Macharia said. Lamu has over 6,000 boat operators with much of the transport being done at sea. (Edited by Tabnacha O)