A family from Fafi in Garissa wants KWS to compensate them over the death of their relative who was allegedly mauled by a lion. They say Suleiman Ali Omar went missing three weeks ago while herding the family’s cattle at Harajams in Fafi. The family said Omar's skull and bones were stumbled upon by another herder last Sunday. Omar's relatives spoke on Wednesday at the Garissa Referral Hospital morgue where the remains were taken for postmortem. Noor Dubat, a close relative to the deceased, said search parties deployed were unsuccessful because of the dense forest. However, when the herder stumbled upon the remains, the search party proceeded to the scene. They found the deceased's blood-soaked Kikoi a few meters from his remains. “We are convinced that the skull and bones are Omar’s remains because his ID card was also found at the scene. There were footprints of a lion and the struggle was also evident,” Dubat said. He said relevant government agencies should investigate the matter and compensate the family as Omar was the breadwinner. “Omar was an orphan. He was herding the cows to pay school fees for his siblings and provide for his family,” Dubat said. The skull and two bones - supposedly the arms - were wrapped in the deceased's blood-soaked Kikoi. The family said they are going back to the forest in search for other body parts, to give Omar a decent burial. Officials from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Kenya Wildlife Service have recorded statements from the relatives. A KWS official who declined to speak to the media told relatives that a conclusive report will be given upon proper identification by pathologists. Another family also visited the morgue to identify the remains. They also claim their relative, who was also a herder, went missing around the same time. With more than three million Kenyans facing starvation due to the ongoing drought, pastoralists communities are forced to move in search of water and pasture. This has escalated human - wildlife conflict. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)