Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda and his supporters on Wednesday took to the streets protesting the ODM nominations results as flawed. He claimed that he won the primaries and was denied victory. Ouda’s supporters chanted 'No Ouda no peace…no Ouda no six-piece voting.' The protesters, who went through Carwash, Manyatta, Nyalenda, Kondele and Kisumu city’s CBD, demanded justice saying their aspirant won but his victory was stolen. They were armed with twigs with some riding on motorbikes and a majority walking on foot to air their views. Some supporters chanted anti-Governor Anyang Nyong’o and ODM leader Raila Odinga songs. At some point, police were forced to use teargas to disperse them. Ouda, who is the first term MP, was trounced in the hotly contested nominations by businessman Joshua Oron. Oron emerged victorious after garnering 6,842 against the MP's 5,362 votes. Victor Radido was third with 269, while Elijah Oburu trailed with 172 votes. “The voting process went well from 8am but all the machines were stopped at 4pm. The machines were not working yet there was a long queue of people who wanted to vote but the officials denied them,” Ouda said. In a press briefing at CDF office, Ouda said the shutting down of machines at 4pm was questionable. “Those manning the primaries refused to open the machines at the polling stations. They declined to open the machines for our agents to see the results and insisted on carrying them to the tallying centre,” he said. He was accompanied by Migosi and Kondele MCAs aspirants Paul Achayo and Obungu Owich who also lost the ODM ticket. Ouda questioned why the voting machines were taken to Tom Mboya Labour College tallying centre from 5pm till midnight before the results were announced. He said it will not be business as usual and promised to consult Raila. Achayo said it was evident that he won in four polling centres but was denied victory. “I want to declare here that this is not over until August 9. I will battle this to the bitter end,” he said. Obungu also claimed their victory had been stolen. "We cannot allow the elections board through a few individuals to bungle the primaries,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)