Pan-African e-commerce platform Jumia has inked an exclusive partnership with franchise Domino's Pizza to reach more consumers. In a deal signed on Monday, both Jumia and Domino's anticipate significant growth in business as well as build convenience for consumers. "We are delighted to provide our online platform where consumers can order their favorite Pizza at the click of a button on Jumia Food, across the various Domino’s outlets in Nairobi and Mombasa”, Jumia Kenya CEO, Betty Mwangi said. She said Jumia customers will now get more variety on the menu when ordering online. Jumia Food Index 2021, placed Pizza second as the top 3 most ordered food items in the country. Chicken came first while burgers were third respectively. This was translated as Kenyans becoming more creative and less traditional in the way they source for their daily meals. Jumia has over 2000 food vendors on its platform. Most of them in Nairobi. Dominos which has seven shops in Nairobi, one in Mombasa, targets to expand to at least 40 by end of the year. Dominos launched its franchisee, Eat N' Go in 2012, and has established itself as a food operator in Africa and currently has presence in Kenya and Nigeria. "We at EatnGo, the Master Franchisee for Domino’s Pizza in Kenya, are delighted to expand the accessibility to our products through listing on Jumia for our customers in Nairobi and Mombasa", said EatnGo country managing director, Ryan Pape. He said the franchise listing on Jumia, gives its customers  multiple ordering channels from which to choose, "this is critical in a world that thrives upon convenience," he added. Consumers in Nairobi in Westlands, Mombasa Road, Hurlingham, Ngong Road, Dagoretti Road, and Limuru Road, plus consumers in Nyali, Mombasa will now be able to order their pizza and have it delivered via Jumia rides. Eat’N’Go which has now established over 180 stores across Africa is eyeing Uganda for it next East African market. “As we expand to more markets, we will continue to bring with us our Pan African knowledge, combining this with the local teams’ expertise to shape our business strategy, to bring the best of product and services to our customers," group managing director and CEO, Patrick McMichael said when Eat N Go opened its Wetlands store last month