Dock Workers have thrown their weight behind Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who is eyeing the Mombasa governor seat. The port is a crucial hunting ground and having the Dock Workers Union on your side brings in a significant amount of votes. The DWU controls about 7,000 votes in the port directly and more than 30,000 indirectly. DWU general secretary Simon Sang on Saturday said Nassir has been with them through thick and thin and they will reciprocate. “When the Bill on CT2, which was meant to fully privatise a section of the port went to Parliament, the Mvita MP was our only defender,” Sang said. He said the Bill wanted to amend Section 16 of the Merchant Shipping Act to pave way for bringing on board a strategic operator of the port. Nassir, however, opposed the clause that would have allowed private firms to operate the port and introduced another amendment that only allowed a state corporation to be the operator. The union officials blasted former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar and Nyali MP Mohamed Ali, who claimed that Nassir and other Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance leaders had interests in part of the port. They said the claims are careless and senseless and show lack of maturity from the two leaders. “Port matters are serious and require serious people who know what they are talking about,” Sang said. He was accompanied by union officials, former officials and members. “We will not allow leaders to make street statements about the port and mislead residents,” Sang said. The union officials said leaders should focus on bringing investors to the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone and educating residents on the benefit of the SEZ. “Any leader who cannot educate the public on the importance of SGR in relation to the SEZ at Dongo Kundu and Naivasha is dishonest,” Sang said. The port has become an important campaign agenda for leaders in Mombasa, especially those seeking the governor position. The Azimio and Kenya Kwanza coalitions have been using the port as a campaign agenda with both claiming they will restore its former glory. While the Azimio camp says they will return the services within three months of taking office, the Kenya Kwanza says Azimio were involved in the transfer and cannot be trusted. The Azimio alleged that Kenya Kwanza stood by and watched as the services were transferred to Naivasha with Deputy President William Ruto being part and parcel of the decision making organs. (Edited by Tabnacha O)