AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma has cautioned his charges against complacency after beating Kenya Police 3-0 in Kenya Premier League last weekend at Nyayo Stadium. The felines next flex muscles with Wazito at Thika Stadium on Sunday and Juma has reiterated the need for consistency in their performance if they want to pull off a similar feat. “We need to post similar results and try as much as we can to finish this season in a respectable position,” Juma said. The ex-Kenyan international says their emphatic win over the law enforcers does not change their season's objective which had been lowered to the bare minimum of surviving relegation. “The aim is still to maintain our status as a topflight team. I don't think there are any drastic changes that have occurred in the team that can prompt us to raise the bar,” Juma said. The tactician lamented the departure of former skipper Marvin Nabwire, saying a mass exodus of star players in the last two seasons had left the club limping and badly exposed. “That's why we have experienced dwindling fortunes in recent months because we keep losing players to rival clubs after investing a lot of resources to develop them. “I wish Marvin all the best in his future endeavours. Seemingly, he has found some greener pastures and we can only encourage him to pursue his dreams after his dedicated service to the club,” Musa said. The gaffer extolled his players for their splendid display of skillful football where their neatly strung passes have left the fans awed and entertained in equal measure. “This is the result of the hard work that has gone into practice over time. We keep doing the same things repeatedly and maintain the same system of play and coaching philosophy. That's precisely why we eventually managed to get our act right,” Juma said. Reigning champions, Tusker, have an arduous task ahead in their encounter against record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium on Saturday. The brewers will seek to close the ten-point gap between them and runaway leaders Kakamega Homeboyz who sit comfortably at the summit of the log with 52 points.