The World Health Organisation has asked countries, including Kenya, to improve on detection of long Covid (Post-Covid condition). The WHO said that even though most people who contract Covid-19 recover fully, current evidence suggests that 10 per cent to 20 per cent experience of mid and long-term effects. The effects occur after they recover from their initial illness. The WHO said some of the effects are "fatigue, breathlessness and cognitive dysfunction (for example, confusion, forgetfulness, or a lack of mental focus and clarity)." The agency said some people also experience psychological effects as part of long Covid. “These symptoms might persist from their initial illness or develop after their recovery. They can come and go or relapse over time. “Post Covid-19 condition can affect a person’s ability to perform daily activities such as work or household chores.” The global health agency said improved detection of such cases will be necessary to reduce long-term morbidity even after the pandemic has ended. This is contained in the updated Strategic Preparedness, Readiness and Response Plan by the agency that seeks to guide countries on the essential steps needed to suppress transmission of Covid-19. The suppressed transmission will help reduce exposure, protect the vulnerable and save lives. WHO director general Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus said collective failure to vaccinate the vulnerable globally has prolonged the pandemic, leading to what he has termed as unacceptable loss of life. Ghebreyesus called for vigilance in the wake of evolution and spread of new variants and doubling of efforts to guard against already stressed health systems and health workers being overwhelmed by new surges. “We must guard against false narratives that Covid-19 is a mild disease that can be ignored. More than six million lives have been lost to Covid-19,” he said. The WHO data estimates that at least 75,000 people were reported to have succumbed to the disease in the first week of February alone. “Many thousands more will be left battling a debilitating post-Covid-19 condition. However, through force of effort, diligence, flexibility and solidarity we can make Covid-19 a manageable disease.” WHO’s first global Strategic Preparedness, Readiness and Response Plan  was published on February 4, 2020. The updated document sets out a number of key strategic adjustments that if implemented at national, regional and global levels, will enable the world to end the acute phase of the pandemic.  (edited by Amol Awuor)