Just as he lived, so is former President Mwai Kibaki in death. Humble, unconcerned with sideshows, the economist. On the second day of lying in state in Parliament, Kibaki's body donned an ash grey suit, a blue printed tie and a white shirt. The same clothes when the body was first brought in for public viewing, or very similar colours and prints. This is, however, unusual for state leaders who have never shied from their elegant, often expensive attire. For instance, when former President Moi was lying in state, there was a displayed of his taste for different designer suits, like he did in life. On the first day of public viewing, his body donned a black suit and a white shirt, accessorised with a colourful tie. On the second day, he had on a dark blue suit and his white shirt was accessorised with bright red with a white polka dot tie. The Star could not confirm if Kibaki's family was continuing with the former head of state's reserved wardrobe selection or they picked similar designs and colours for neutrality. As the members of the public flocked in to view Kibaki's body, their eye roamed the Parliament Buildings in awe. The final stop for many was Kibaki's memory wall. The black wall that took 18 hours to put up was fitted with many photos of Kibaki's life and times. The photos were arranged in categories highlighting each phase of the third president's life. There was a photo of Kibaki with his predecessor Daniel Moi and the current President Uhuru Kenyatta together in his office. There were also photos of Kibaki the family man. They included those of Kibaki and his grandchildren, his children and his wife Lucy. At the far end was the photo of Kibaki during the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. There were also photos of Kibaki's swearing in. On Tuesday, the number of people who flocked Parliament Buildings to view the body of Kibaki was more than the previous day. "I brought my daughter with me to give her a chance as she might never get to witness a state funeral," Sabina Wanjiru said. James Okilipa, 40, from Busia said he was humbled to get a chance to view the body of the former head of state. "I have never seen any president alive, in person, except for Kibaki," he said." Okilipa said he had travelled to greet Kibaki when he went to Kocholia Hospital back at home. "He gave us a university and a hospital in Teso. The country has lost a great leader," Okilipa said. Rose Njoki, 56, from Limuru said Kibaki's leadership was exemplary as he stabilised the economy. The body will lie in state for three days - from Monday to Wednesday -ahead of Saturday's burial in Othaya. A national memorial service will be held on Friday at Nyayo National Stadium. The National Funeral Steering Committee, chaired by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, will on Wednesday give finer details, leading to the interment of Kibaki at his Othaya home. Edited by A.N