Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi on Tuesday caused a heated debate in the National Assembly after linking Deputy President William Ruto to land grabbing scandal. When she stood to make her submission pursuant to the Standing Order 226, Gedi alleged that the DP had 'grabbed land'. The House was debating the delay in the issuance of allotment letters to residents of Msambweni Constituency. She said that the issue of land is an emotive issue in the entire country and not in the Coastal region only. "When we talk about land grabbing, we know the people who grabbed land, including the land that belongs to students...we know who owns the land in Taita Taveta, we know who grabbed land in Laikipia. It is the same person," Gedi said. Her remarks did not please legislators allied with the DP, who wanted her to withdraw her remarks or substantiate them. Standing on the point of order, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa criticised the MP for mentioning the name of the DP. "...it is only right for Gedi to either substantiate or withdraw and apologise...especially for naming the leader of the biggest coalition and the leading coalition that is about to form government in 2022," Ichung'wa said. However, Gedi reiterated that she has the evidence to link the mentioned person to the land grabbing claims. "It is in the public domain, including court orders, where the person grabbed land including Lang'ata Primary school and I have no apology to make. I can provide the details," Gedi added. It took the guidance of the Speaker to intervene and gave direction on the way forward. "Are you ready to provide evidence by way of substantiation?" Muturi posed. Gedi went ahead to affirm that she is ready to submit her evidence in the next two days. "Speaker, give me two days and I will provide the details." The Speaker allowed her up to Thursday,  April 14, at 2.30 pm to substantiate her claims. "You are the one who has undertaken to provide evidence. Ordinarily, we do not listen to the people who say they will provide evidence after two days. But given the magnitude of what you have just said, I would allow you. And therefore, on Thursday at 2:30 pm, we expect Fatuma Gedi to provide evidence." But the MP went on record that she will provide evidence of Lang'ata Primary, Taita Taveta, Laikipia, and Muteshi land cases.