Champions Tusker and current leaders Kakamega Homeboyz will be in action this weekend as their intense battle for top spot spills over to the 28th round of the Kenyan Premier League season. The brewers face debutants Talanta at Ruaraka grounds in a tie that could go either way. Both teams are high on confidence after garnering maximum points in their last outings last Sunday. Whereas Tusker pipped Leopards 2-1 at Moi Stadium Kasarani, Talanta upset Wazito 2-0 at Kasarani Annex. Coach Robert Matano's brewers have amassed 49 points so far and a win could take them to within three points of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. On the other hand, Talanta are ninth on the log with 39 points and are likely to move to the seventh spot if they manage another win. Homeboyz will look to reap handsomely against struggling Wazito when the two sides flex muscles at Bukhungu Stadium on Monday. The 2019/2020 season runners-up have been on the rampage, crushing only twice in their 27 league encounters so far. The impressive run leaves them rooted at the summit of the standings with 55 points. Wazito, on the other hand, are staring at relegation after a torrid run that has left them second from bottom with a paltry 21 points. Coastal side, Bandari, have a date with Bidco United at Mbaraki Sports Club on Saturday. The 2019 FKF Shield Cup champions are currently placed sixth in the standings with 44 points and a win could fire them to third, all factors held constant. Bidco, who have experienced a lackadaisical season, are 12th with 33 points. 13-time Kenyan champions AFC Leopards return to action on Saturday against last season's runners-up KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Leopards are 10th on the log with 35 points, two spots behind the bankers, who are four points better. Ulinzi Stars are scheduled to settle scores with Mathare United but the Slum Boys are unlikely to honour the fixture if their woes from last weekend continue. The cash-strapped skipped their encounter against Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium. Newbies Vihiga Bullets will be eager to evade a relegation scare when they host Posta Rangers at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday while, record champions Gor Mahia dare Kariobangi Sharks to a duel on Monday. Nairobi City Stars host Police FC at Ruaraka grounds as Sofapaka take a trip to Bungoma for a date with Nzoia Sugar on Monday.