Human rights defenders  in Garissa have expressed their disappointment with the turn of events in the ongoing recruitment exercise by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution, following claims of favouritism. They were reacting to a suit filed at the Milimani law courts by one Member Charo, who seeks orders to stop the ODPP from proceeding to interview candidates shortlisted for various positions in the office. Suing through lawyer Danstan Omari, Charo accuses the ODPP of nepotism, claiming that it has only shortlisted for interview, people from the muslim community and more specifically, from the somali ethnic group. Coincidentally,the Director of Public Prosecutions,  Noordin Haji is a  muslim and a somali. The activists stressed that all Kenyans should be given equal opportunity and therefore the accusations directed against the muslim community amounts to 'ethnic profiling'. Led by Salah Yussuf, the activists described the suit as one that was filled with "hate, bigotry and mischief". “We are really shocked by the turn of events in a an exercise that is  very free, fair and devoid of any manipulation," Yussuf said "One wonders why the petitioner would single out muslims and somalis when the process was very open and in fact very few of them are in that list for that matter.” Yussuf said that out of the 148 shortlisted for interview, only 45 have names which, on face value, appear to be muslims from different counties in  Kenya. He said the that  the outrage directed at the ODPP over the conduct of the employment process amounts to dividing the country along ethnic and tribal lines. Fatuma Badhi, another activist, said the country belonged to all religions and communities emphasising on the need of peaceful coexistence. “It is unfortunate that in the 21st century we still have individuals who see others in the lenses of their tribes and religion.,"she said. "Surely that is not the Kenya we want to see because the country belongs to all of us.” Badhi said that the claims of nepotism in Charo’s suit amount to nothing else but an intention to profile muslims for discrimination, marginalisation and exclusion. She said that Article 10 of the Constitution spells out the national values and principles of governance, whose values and principles include non-discrimination and inclusiveness. On Friday the ODPP chief of staff Lilian Obuo, in a statement to newsrooms, quashed the allegations saying the office is mandated  to ensure equality around the country. She said,thus,religious background of applicants is inconsequential. "Contrary to the recent misleading statements, the Human Resource Advisory Committee adhered to the set-out criteria in shortlisting qualified candidates,"she said. "The members took into consideration our national values and only shortlisted candidates who met the requirements set out in the advertisement." The letter  noted that, though they received many applications, consideration was given to those least represented at the office presently. Those included applicants from marginalised areas and persons with disabilities. “We recognise that in order for the ODPP to thrive and achieve its objectives, we must recruit, retain, and develop diverse talent from each of Kenya's 47 counties," Obuo said. "Diversity and inclusion  is a high priority in the ODPP Human Resource agenda. This is with a  recognition that helping employees feel represented at work, is by having the face of Kenya at all levels.” (Edited by Francis Wadegu)