At least 4,000 riders in Kirinyaga county have benefited from Governor Anne Waiguru's boda boda shed project. Twenty-eight sheds have been constructed in various towns and trading centres across all the subcounties, each serving as a picking or dropping point for riders within those areas. “We requested the governor to construct sheds and she heard our plea. Whether it rains or the sun shines, we have no worries,” John Wachira, a boda boda operator in Kerugoya town, said. He said they have seen the fruits of devolution under Waiguru’s leadership and they hope she will be re-elected to complete the projects her administration has initiated. Joseph Maina, who operates at the main stage in Kutus, said before the sheds were constructed they used to suffer whenever it rained. He said they were sometimes forced to stay back home during the rainy season as they had nowhere to shelter themselves. Maina said some riders would shelter outside shops, a gesture shop owners did not take kindly. Kennedy Mutugi said Waiguru has proven she has the interest of the boda boda sector at heart by recognising the need to improve their working environment. “We are happy that we can work without interruption during the rains since we are sheltered,” he said. Waiguru said the project is part of a continuous youth empowerment programme in which she has also distributed jackets and helmets to boda boda riders and sports uniforms to teams across the county. She said the sheds are part of her project to support boda boda riders to run a sustainable enterprise. Waiguru said the initial phase of the project targeted areas that have a higher population of riders, which is mainly within the county’s main towns. The boda boda sector generates millions of shillings daily in the county. It is a source of income for many young people and forms a crucial part of the county’s public transport system. Apart from transporting people to various destinations across the county, boda bodas are majorly used by farmers to transport their farm produce to the market. Traders also use the same means of transport to take goods from the main trading centres to their businesses located in the interior parts of the county. So far, 7,300 riders have been registered in their respective saccos in the county. Edited by A.N