Senators have put the government on the spot over the high cost of living even as Treasury CS Ukur Yatani unveiled the Sh3.3 trillion 2022-23 budget. The lawmakers criticised the state for inaction as Kenyans are beaten by the harsh economic times worsened by a shortage of basic commodities and escalating prices. Nominated senator Naomi Shiyonga sparked the storm on the worsening economic situation with a stern statement demanding action to make life affordable. The ODM nominated legislators that the country faces a food crisis in the wake of the shortage of milk, eggs and other basic items. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka cleared the statement for investigations by the Senate’s Agriculture and Livestock committee to establish the cause of the crisis and plans to address the problem. “The committee should explain what has occasioned such an acute shortage of these essential commodities,” the senator held. The committee, she said, should establish by Agriculture CS Peter Munya if the county and national governments have put in place to address the crisis and avert the possibility of hunger engulfing the entire country. “They should outline the plans, if any, that have been set out by the Ministry of Agriculture to lower the price of dairy and chicken feed, which has increased by over 40 per cent in the last two years,” she added. Shiyonga added that the Ministry should explain the progress made towards establishing mechanisms to prevent further closure of livestock feed manufacturers as a result of high prices of raw materials. The probe commenced even as CS Yatani unveiled the 2022-23 budget – the last under President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime. The CS was highly expected to outline measures to grow the economy after the Covid 19 pandemic. However, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei discounted the budget as a populist estimate that focused on mega projects instead of building micro and small business to grow the economy. “It is unfortunate that Kenyans are going through tough economic times. There is a crisis of fuel and the cost of basic commodities has increased “We would expect the last budget of present Uhuru Kenyatta of Sh3.3 trillion should have been in a way be focused on economic recovery,” he added. “Kenyans just came from Covid where they lost their incomes. The budget should have focused on economic recovery but when you look at the budget, they are focusing on major projects instead of the economy,” he held. On his part, Laikipia senator John Kinyua blamed the government for the problem. “The government is quiet while Kenyans are suffering. Nobody is willing to tell us where the Sh34 billion fuel subsidy funds went to,” he said.