The Fifa World Cup trophy will be in the country from May 26-27 courtesy of the Coca-Cola Company. Kenya is one of nine African countries selected to receive and host the trophy as part of an exclusive tour ahead of the showpiece in Qatar in November this year. Vice President, Coca-Cola, East, and Central Africa Franchise, Debra Mallowah, said they are delighted to be part of the tour. “We are excited to bring the Fifa World Cup trophy to Kenya to give millions of Kenyans an opportunity to experience the magic of the event even if the country did not qualify for the tournament," Mallowah said. He expressed hope the tour will unite millions in the country in their love for football. "We are thrilled to share this iconic moment with our consumers, stakeholders, and football fans in Kenya. Football is a sport that unites us all in a unique way, and this will be a moment for all of us to enjoy and be part of this global, iconic experience,” she said. Additionally,  a consumer promotion campaign will see five lucky consumers win a fully-paid trip to Qatar to watch two matches live as they savour the sights and sounds of the country. The promotion, dubbed Fifa World Cup Buy and Win promotion, will run for two months from April 11-June 30. To participate in the promotion, consumers will be required to purchase 1Litre, 1.5Ltr, or 2Ltr Coke, Fanta or Sprite and check the code under the cap to SMS it to 40111 for a chance to win. Once the consumer wins a prize, they will receive an instant message with details of the win & collection process. Mallowah said the theme of the trophy tour ‘Believing is Magic’, gives Kenya an opportunity to share the joy with fans far and wide, even if they do not make it to Qatar for the Fifa World Cup. “This is what our brand is all about— creating and sharing joy, happiness, and bringing people together to enjoy, refresh and share the real magical moments,” added Mallowah. In Africa, Kenya will be the second country to receive the trophy. “We are working closely with different stakeholders in the country to ensure a befitting trophy tour. “Since all eyes will be on Kenya during the time the trophy will be here, it is a superb opportunity to showcase our country. We, therefore, invite you all to be part of this historical moment,” she added. East & Central Africa Franchise marketing director, Isabelle Kariuki, termed World Cup as one of the biggest sporting events of the year. “This is one of our biggest activities this year and our commitment is to ensure that consumers in every corner of this country have access to our products to enable them to participate in the promotion. This is a lifetime opportunity to win a trip to Qatar to watch a World Cup match live as well as a chance to view the trophy once it lands in Kenya in May,” she noted. During the promotion, Kariuki said the company will organise several engaging activities for our consumers to build excitement in the run up to the trophy tour.