Credit Bank’s chief executive officer, Betty Korir, has been named in the list of the top 100 women CEOs in Africa. Korir made a showing in the list dominated by top-performing peers from West Africa, followed by East Africa. Alongside 10 other CEOs from Kenya, Korir made the cut from an initial list of 600 CEO’s from across the continent. The CEOs represent 21 nationalities and 21 sectors that continue to excel in Africa and beyond. Executives within the banking and financial services sector dominated the list, with 31 positions contributing to nearly a third of the ranking. The list is drawn from CEOs heading corporates in mining, finance, telecommunications, technology, and hospitality. This is the second edition of the annual ranking carried out by Reset Global People, a leading global reputation firm in partnership with the SDGs office in the office of the President of Ghana and Advance Media. Welcoming the recognition, Korir said, “I do not see myself as being exceptional, I see myself as the product through personal application, of what I wish for all women and indeed all men everywhere. "So, I could not have achieved what I have without the support of those around me at the bank and the guidance of an enlightened board." Kenya has outperformed the global average of female board directors, which now stands at 36 per cent, according to the 2021 Board Diversity and Inclusion survey report, with the current global average at 23.3 per cent. With a financial career spanning over two decades, Korir has also been instrumental in driving robust investment in innovation and product realignment for Credit Bank Plc, which recently launched an offering focusing exclusively on women entrepreneurs, called “Elevate-Her.” Under her leadership the bank itself has won several local and continental awards in the recent past, including Best Bank in Corporate Governance, Best Bank in providing Customer Focused Financial Solutions, Best Bank in Trade Finance, Best SME Partner Bank ,winner in Gender mainstreaming awards and Best Bank in women Empowerment-East Africa among several others. “Our focus is to continue increasing profitability, deliver affordable credit and tailored products to our customers and support women in entrepreneurship while focusing on the retail and wholesale markets to do business,” Korir said. Speaking about the list, Kwame Opoku, the CEO of Reset Global People, noted that “women are a powerful force for change across the globe.” Advance Media stated that it undertook a rigorous research project that identified high-profile personalities and women who demonstrated leadership and performance excellence, besides breaking the status quo. The exercise also entailed a review of all publicly listed and multi-national companies, corporate organizations, and financial institutions to celebrate African Women CEOs across the Continent.