Malindi residents have filed a petition at the Environment and Lands court seeking to stop the county of Kilifi from burning toxic waste at the Mayungu dumpsite. Mayunga is Malindi's main dumpsite and is situated close to the posh Casuarina estate in the heart of the resort town. The petition number 6 of 2022, was filed by the Progress Welfare Association of Malindi and Malindi Residents Development Group. They sued the county and the National Environmental Management Authority. Conrad Atiang, the lawyer representing PWAM and MRDG said the petition is challenging the violation of the residents’ rights under articles 42, 43 and 46 of the constitution, which advocates for sustainable health, right to clean and safe environment. He said it was the duty of the county to ensure there is a programme that monitors and evaluates how solid waste management is done. “So, we are challenging their conduct with the dumpsite, the stakeholder organisations have tried their best to communicate with them for a long time but no action has been taken for three years,” he said. The petition was in court before Malindi environment judge Millicent Odeny. Both the county and Nema sought more time to respond to the petition. Odeny granted the respondents 21 days to file the response and set the matter for mention on June 15. Atiang said his clients are against the reckless way of dumping wastes saying that the fumes that emanate from the dumpsite affect the residents of Mayungu and Casuarina. “We want the court to directs them to give us a plan within six months on how they intend to deal with the waste,” he said. “It’s a public interest issue, in my assessment it's an urgent petition because the fumes from the dumpsite are very toxic and they come straight into residents’ houses,” he said. Naomi Ang’erah, a representative of MRDG said they went to court  because the county and Nema have not been responsive to their pleas. “Last year in February, Nema visited the dumpsite and saw what we are going through whenever the waste is burned,” she said. She said Nema warned the county to stop burning waste but the county has continuously ignored their directives. “The Burning must stop immediately because there are many people who have been adversely affected, I have seen a clip of somebody who collapsed yesterday because  of his health, lungs were affected by the fumes  and he had to be rushed to the hospital,” she said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)