A man has sued his next door neighbour for 'spying' on his family by installing a CCTV in her house facing his compound. Kennedy Ondieki, a resident of Kilimani, has sued Hellen Maeda and wants her to pay him damages for invading his privacy. Ondieki also wants an order compelling Maeda to remove the CCTV or spying device that is accessing, spying, monitoring and recording activities in his property. The plaintiff also wants compensation for violation of his fundamental rights and freedoms, including damages for acts of negligence. “An order prohibiting the neighbour from erecting any form of CCTV camera to spy, monitor and record images on his [my], property,” court documents say. The man argues his family has been unable to enjoy privacy and comfort of their home as they are always aware that they are being watched and monitored. “My family and I do not feel safe and secure having knowledge that my immediate neighbour has custody of information and images relating to my private and family affairs,” Ondieki said. According to court documents, the dispute arose on March 2 this year when the neighbour, without his consent, installed a CCTV camera. He said it was for purposes of spying, monitoring and recording his property without any legal or justifiable cause. He claims she did not give him any notice, orally or in writing, that she intended to instal the CCTV. “Several efforts to solve the matter amicably have been futile as he has asked her to reposition her camera device away from his property, but she has been allegedly hostile and abusive towards him," court documents read. Ondieki said if not stopped, the camera will continue to capture and have information on his "private domestic affairs and images of me and my family members”. He said it is his constitutional and legal right to have privacy in his property and domestic life. “The invasion of privacy by the respondent continuously, without legal and legitimate justification, has amounted to harassment of my family and I which is a breach of our fundamental rights and freedoms as enshrined in the law,” he argues. (Edited by by V. Graham).