Nairobi governor aspirant Polycarp Igathe is likely to face a rough battle after his rival Senator Johnson Sakaja hinted he is in talks with Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi. Azimio coalition settled on Igathe as its flag bearer in an arrangement that saw Wanyonyi shelve his bid. Sakaja said he has had talks with the legislator regarding working together ahead of the General Election. The aspirant said he has met with the legislator on several occasions and that their teams were still discussing the matter with details of the deal set to be sealed soon. He said despite their political differences they have agreed to unite for the common course of ensuring their agenda is delivering to the people of Nairobi. “From the polls and statistics, he was my closest competitor but when we sat together after he was replaced by someone else, I sympathised with him and agreed to work together,” Sakaja said. “Our teams are working together and more details will be out in due course. The vision for our great county and having what is in your heart done is important.” Sakaja spoke at the Hustler Centre on Wednesday after receiving his UDA party nomination certificate Our efforts to reach Wanyonyi for comment were unsuccessful by the time of going to press as he did not answer calls or respond to a text message. The revelation by the senator is now likely to deal a huge blow to the Azimio coalition. The Raila-led team has been banking on the two-term legislator for the Luhya votes and his influence in the city to bag the votes for their nominee. Sakaja, who was accompanied by his running mate James Muchiri, said he shares similar dreams with Wanyonyi on how to propel the county and address challenges that Nairobians have faced. “I have worked with him at the national assembly and during the talks on BBI where we sat together and drafted a proposal to fight and save Nairobi which would have been let go,” he said. Wanyonyi has remained quiet about his next move after the move by the Azimio team.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris