The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has embarked on a project to automate Nairobi's transport system. The project is targeted to provide long-lasting solutions to the city’s transport system and meet the needs of the ever-demanding public transport sector. Despite rolling out the Intelligent Transport System, the plan involves onboard video surveillance,  bus terminal solutions, the introduction of automated fare collection, automatic vehicle management and passenger information. The automated fare collection system will see commuters use M-Pesa, Credit cards and scan to pay fares. The vehicle tracking system will provide comprehensive statistical reports on route violation, daily total kilometres, speed violation, schedule adherence, speed or time duration graphic and trip reports. To implement this project, NMS has roped in services from Kentkart Group, a firm that deals with information technology for public transport. “Last week on Wednesday, we held discussions with KentKart Group on the introduction of an intelligent transport system to improve the quality of transit services and minimise transport costs,” NMS director general Mohammed Badi said. With its headquarters in Istanbul, Turkey, Kentkart produces ITS hardware and software consistent with city-specific and international standards dealing in bus, metro, railways, cable cars, parking, bikes and taxis. NMS  had also met with the Japan International Corporation Agency team which presented its work plan on the bus operation policy and management project. The three-year project which was launched last month is geared towards improving the quality of public transport services within Nairobi. Last year, NMS said they would introduce an electronic application to be used by matatu operators and commuters in the seven termini that they were constructing. The electronic system will be integrated with the termini to keep matatu users apprised of the time the last-mile buses will be at the different pick-up stages. The termini include  Green Park terminus and one at the Bunyala and Workshop Road junction, Fig Tree terminus, Muthurwa terminus, Desai and Park Road, Muthurwa-Ladhies terminus and Globe Roundabout terminus. They are part of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan which targets to ensure a reliable and efficient transport system in the city. Once the plan is fully implemented, the terminus at Muthurwa-Ladhies will handle matatus from Jogoo and Lusaka road. Bunyala -Workshop road termini will be reserved for matatus plying Mombasa Road, South B, South C, Industrial Area, Imara Daima, Athi River, Kitengela and Machakos routes. All matatus currently using Tea Room and Accra Road plying the Thika Superhighway and long-distance matatus from Mt Kenya will move to Desai and Park Road termini in Ngara. Green Park terminus which is so far the biggest will be the drop-off and pick-up point for matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris