Hit Squad head coach Benjamin Musa has questioned the seriousness of the organizing committee for the ongoing Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa Congo. This, even as the Kenyan contingent posted mixed results in their opening bouts on Tuesday evening. Musa has lashed out at the organisers asking them to put their house in order to protect the reputation and integrity of the competition. Musa wondered why the organisers had to wait until a few minutes before bouts to take the boxers through basic procedures when the teams had all along been there after arriving on Sunday. “It's unfortunate that the organisers only managed to avail the weighing scale a few hours before our boxers stepped into the ring which shouldn't have been the case,” Musa observed. “For the first time in my boxing career, I saw the weighing-in and medical checkup being done a few hours before the bouts,” Musa said. “We tried as much as we could to raise concerns about the whole issue but all our pleas landed on deaf ears. The tactician said such ineptitude was among the factors holding our continent from the desired growth. “There is failure to adhere to competition rules and technical rules. As such, we cannot be in a position to produce boxers who can compete effectively on the global front,” Musa said. Musa read malice in the manner in which draws were being conducted. “I don't understand what's the intention behind conducting daily draws. The normal practice is to conduct draws before the beginning of the competition,” Musa said. “I've noticed that there were players who had not been initially registered for the championship who have finally been included as a result of the random draws,” Musa said. The seasoned tactician attributed Kenya's lackadaisical performance on an opening day to inexperience and tactical aspects. “We had four bouts and we lost three due to varying factors. Wanjiru lost because of inexperience. It took her too long to settle down. David Karanja Macharia of Kenya won against Ilunga Kabange of DRC on points in the flyweight division. In the minimum weight, Martin Maina lost to Nsimba Wayala of Congo DRC while Joseph Shigali crushed to Rabbi Mutombo of DRC. Ann Wanjiru — the only female boxer in action — lost to Carine Nkelami Bawala of DRC. “Maina completely lacked the required composure and couldn't simply contain his opponent. “Karanja was brilliant and he did quite well. I didn't understand how Shigali lost his bout because he clearly fought well and in my opinion should have won,” Musa said.  