Kenya's national women’s deaf basketball team is eyeing an improved performance at the 24th Summer Deaflympics scheduled for May 1 to 15 in Caxias Do Sul, Brazil The team finished eighth on their debut in 2017 in Samsun, Turkey, after winning only one game. They were awarded a diploma. The team’s assistant coach Hilda Indasi said they are targeting a top-five finish in the 15-day showpiece. “We don’t want to set unrealistic targets of saying we are going to finish within the medal bracket. We will be satisfied with a top-five finish. Our main aim is to perform better than the last Deaflympics in 2017,” she said at the Nyayo National Gymnasium, where the team is training. Kenya is in Pool 'B' alongside the United States, Turkey, Lithuania, and Ukraine while Group A comprises hosts Brazil, Greece, Italy, and Poland. Indasi admitted that the draw is tricky. “It’s not an easy draw because we are pooled against powerhouses USA, who play top-level basketball. We have to step up our training,” she noted. Coach Indasi said the team has not had enough training but promised to focus on key areas before the team leaves for Brazil. “We know it is a big challenge ahead of us and we will have to work very hard. "We have made progress but we needed a bit more time because we have players from teams that have not been active in sports. "We started with the fundamentals areas before switching to technical stuff because the players are like beginners,” she added. Only 12 out of 20 players currently in camp at Kasarani will travel to Brazil. The team’s captain Mercy Mideva said they are not intimidated by their opponents. She said they will also be keen to improve their ranking in the world. Kenya is ranked 9th globally in the women’s deaf basketball. "With the training, we have had in camp, we believe we can handle even the United States side. We trust in our abilities," she said. In 2019, Mideva was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) in the country and the best player of the year for Rongai Deaf Basketball. In 2020, she was among those recognised by President Uhuru Kenyatta as sports heroes and heroines during the Mashujaa Day celebrations at Gusii Stadium in Kisii County. She said her personal target in Brazil is to be crowned the MVP in the women’s event. The national men’s team is in Group 'A'  alongside Israel, United States, Argentina, and Poland. Group 'B' has Lithuania, host Brazil, Greece, Venezuela, Chinese Taipei, and Ukraine.