Sirisia MP John Waluke has said that he ditched the Kenya Kwanza brigade for Azimio la Umoja because he wasn’t comfortable working with Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula in the same outfit. Waluke officially stepped out to campaign for Azimio and its Presidential candidate Raila Odinga weeks after he decamped from UDA. Speaking at Sinoko PEFA Church in Maraka Ward in Webuye East Sub constituency on Sunday, Waluke said he switched camps after a conversation with President Uhuru Kenyatta and his discomfort being with Senator Wetang'ula in the same political formation. Making known his political stand for the first time since his decamping, Waluke said he will be spending all his energy selling Azimio and Raila's agenda in the western region. “I was appointed by Odinga to lead the Azimio team in the entire western region and I will deliver as agreed,” Waluke said. Waluke faulted Wetang’ula for imposing Speaker Ken Lusaka on Bungoma residents. He asked Bungoma residents to reject Lusaka, adding that when he was the governor (Lusaka) he was accused of many scandals. “I would have drummed up support for speaker Lusaka if only he could have focused on a higher seat in the country but because he has come back to cause confusion and disturb governor Wycliffe Wangamati, I won’t support him,” he said. In his appeal, Waluke asked Bungoma residents to vote for Wangamati as the governor because he had done fairly well compared to Lusaka. “Truth be told, let's support Wangamati’s re-election because he has promised to double his efforts if given the second chance as the county boss,” Waluke said. Speaking at the same event, Wangamati called for peaceful elections come August 9, saying that Kenya must exist beyond 2022. "I call upon the clergy to pray for all of us and to pray for the peace during this period," Wangamati said. Deputy Governor Charles Ngome announced his senatorial bid and urged residents to vote for him. He promised to bring to an end selfish and extortionist politics. Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa lauded Governor Wangamati on his unmatched development record.