A Mombasa court has suspended a Sh2.6 billion Kenya Ports Authority tender awarded last month for the construction of Shimoni Fish Port. This is after activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court to challenge the awarding of the tender. He accuses KPA of giving the tender to a company that had done consulting for them during the bidding process. Justice Olga Sewe temporarily suspended the tender awarded to Southern Engineering Company Limited for the proposed construction of phase 1 of Shimoni Fish Port in Kwale county. The matter will be mentioned on April 27 for further directions. Omtatah argues that the matter is urgent because KPA announced it had awarded the tender to Southern Engineering Company and they were in the process of signing a contract. “The impugned award of the tender is unconstitutional, illegal, null and void due to the fact that SECO is conflicted, having participated in the preparation of the tender document,” the court papers read. Omtatah argues that the tender is unconstitutional for failing to provide for affirmative action under the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO). AGPO is an affirmative action that seeks to empower women, youth and persons with disability by giving them 30 per cent of all procurement initiatives without competition from established firms. The activist further claims that SECO is conflicted since they were the consultants who conducted the bathymetric and the geotechnical surveys for the project. “Effectively, they participated in the preparation of the bid documents, and then participated in and won the tender,” Omtatah claims. He argues that SECO was not the lowest evaluated bidder, and that the company was the second-highest bidder out of eight companies. “The award cost at Sh2.6 billion is much higher than the Sh1.7 billion budgetary allocation KPA had provided for the construction of the project,” the court papers read. Omtatah said awarding the tender to SECO is untenable under the Constitution and the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2015. He says it creates a conflict of interest as the company is both a consultant and the contractor of the same project. “The petitioner reasonably suspects that SECO have been favourably treated contrary to Article 73 of the Constitution to achieve improper motives or to advance corrupt practices,” he says. Omtatah argues that the collusion, conflict of interest and manipulation over the procurement undermines fair competition and value for money. Edited by A.N