The Constitution of Kenya 2010 introduced the devolved units which would be managed by governors while their oversight roles would be played by the County Assemblies and the Senate. The governors and their deputies serve a maximum of two-five year terms after which they exit politics or seek other elective seats of their choice. The first batch of county bosses who have served their second terms will be retiring after the August 9 polls. While some have set their eyes on higher positions including the presidency, a good number of them are gunning for Senate seats. Most of them argue that they are better placed to oversight their successors considering that they understand county operations. Some 21 governors will be exiting in August, having served their full terms. Others who had initially expressed interest in going for senate seats have opted to step down in favour of other candidates. They include; Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal who dropped his bid for incumbent Senator Steve Lelegwe. Lelegwe will be defending his seat on a UDA ticket. Another is Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony who wanted to vie for the Senate seat but has since gone mum over the matter. Retiring governors who have openly said they will seek senate positions include: Ali Roba - Mandera County Mandera Governor Ali Roba has declared he is in the Senate race. The governor is vying on his United Democratic Movement party ticket. UDM is an affiliate of the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance. Kivutha Kibwana - Makueni County Makueni Governor Kuvutha Kibwana in March expressed interest in the Makueni Senate seat under the Muungano Party. The governor said being in the Senate will help him to safeguard devolution properly. He claimed his candidature was implored upon by locals. "I know that to help devolution in our county in terms of oversight role…I'll be useful in the Senate because I already know how the governor works," Kibwana said. "I’m not bragging, it's what I know. I know that because I have sponsors who I will introduce to the next governor to continue with the work because even as we speak, I have some plans with the sponsors." Jackson Mandago - Uasin Gishu County Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago was among the first county bosses to announce interest in senate seats. As early as October last year, he had expressed that he would vie for the seat at the end of his term. He said the seat was not a preserve of anyone and that he will go for it during the 2022 polls. “It’s not a must for one to be a lawyer to vie for the Senate seat. I have what it takes and will go for it,” he said. Samuel Tunai - Narok County Narok Governor Samuel Ole Tunai on March 25, announced that he is running for the county’s Senatorial seat. He made the announcement at Deputy President William Ruto’s official Karen residence after a meeting with leaders allied to the UDA party. Tunai said that he made up his mind after residents pleaded with him to join the race. He added that leaders allied to the DP in Narok County led by former CAS Patrick Ntutu had agreed that Tunai is best suited to vie for Senate. “Your Excellency, I want to inform you that we held a series of meetings after you last visited Narok and I’m glad to inform you that we agreed that I run for the county’s senate seat,” Tunai said. He is expected to battle it out with incumbent Ledama Ole Kina who is vying for an ODM ticket. Martin Wambora - Embu County As early as August 2022, reports said that Embu Governor Martin Wambora was eyeing to represent the county in the Senate once his term ends. He denied the reports saying that he was looking forward to retiring and doing his private businesses. A few weeks ago, he announced that he would be seeking the county's Senate seat in the August polls. According to Wambora, he met grassroots leaders and his constituents who have expressed confidence that he will better serve them in the Senate. He also hinted that he would vie for the seat on his Umoja na Maendeleo party ticket but he has lately been cosying up to Ruto. Wambora survived multiple impeachment attempts during his 10-year tenure as Embu governor. Alex Tolgos - Elgeyo Marakwet Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos will face off with incumbent Kipchumba Murkomen for the Senate seat. He will vie for the seat under the Raila Odinga-led Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance. Tolgos has previously said Azimio will field aspirants in Elgeyo Marakwet and other areas in Rift Valley perceived to be Ruto's political fiefdom. “If I win or lose it's okay, that is part of politics, it's always a win-win situation because if you lose you will have done your best,” he said. But even as the governors seek senate seats in the August 9 polls, City MCA Waithera Chege has petitioned the National Assembly to bar them from running. Chege, who is also the Deputy Majority Whip in the Nairobi county assembly, argues that some governors have pending integrity cases. She said their election to the Senate could see the war on graft sabotaged. “I have seen billboards of several outgoing governors with pending integrity files running for Senate. How will they audit reports covering their tenure," Waithera said. She said elected governors could bully their way into Senate and chair influential committees to protect their interests. “Some are even likely to be elected chairs of Public Accounts Committee and Public Investments committee and these are the same committees that interrogate audit reports on counties,” she said.