It will be a Ngatia-Kaloki Nairobi dream team as the Nairobi Gubernatorial race continues to gain momentum. On Friday, the Wiper party fronted former Kibwezi MP Phillip Kaloki to deputise Nairobi's Jubilee Gubernatorial aspirant Richard Ngatia. This comes after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka endorsed the Kenya National Chambers Industry president's bid to become Nairobi's fourth governor. Kalonzo handed Kaloki the Wiper Gubernatorial ticket for Nairobi but  said negotiations are there for him to deputise Ngatia. Kaloki forfeited his gubernatorial bid for Makueni County. He has however, been spotted with Ngatia several times with the latest being last Sunday in Kangemi when the KNCCI boss launched his candidature. On his side, Ngatia expressed  gratitude to Kalonzo and the Wiper party for supporting his bid to bring change to the City County. "I have seen the will of Wiper party members to support my bid moving forward to change Nairobi. I want to thank Wiper for demonstrating faith in my leadership and for the full endorsement," he said. The business guru also welcomed Wiper's decision to front Kaloki, noting that the duo will be best in running against opponents in the August polls. "I accommodate and support the Wiper decision of Kaloki. This comes a long way in boosting support to make sure that we under the Umbrella of Azimio as a team compete fully with our opponents. I look forward to working with Kaloki as partners to deliver for Nairobi," Ngatia added . The businessman will now have to square it out with business lady Agnes Kagure and Governor Ann Kananu for the Jubilee Party ticket. It is still not clear whether the Azimio La Umoja will seek a consensus among the candidates or let the Jubilee Party nominee face off with ODM Party’s Tim Wanyonyi. Wanyonyi has maintained that he will not defer his bid for any political machination. The Azimio camp’s candidate will battle it out with Kenya Kwanza’s Johnson Sakaja, who was granted the greenlight to fly the UDA flag in Nairobi. Edited by B. Oruta