Two Wheel Drive and Division 3 leader Leonardo Varese has vowed to continue fighting at the sharp end of this year’s Kenya National Rally Championship. Verese consolidated his 2WD Championship lead after last weekend's  ARC Equator Rally in Naivasha marked the third event of the year. He also rose to the top of the Division 3 log as well as moved up to third place in the KNRC overall standings, contrary to all expectations. Asked about his fairy tale placing in the KNRC series after the Equator Rally, Varese explained: "We are placed third on the KNRC overall standings behind Karan Patel and Jasmeet Chana but we're not very keen on that bit of competition as we know our limitations and nature of car." He added: "For a 2WD driver to be placed third in the overall standings is historic and a bit of an embarrassment to those running expensive state-of-the-art machines. For sure, since the late 90s, no 2WD has been anywhere near the top of the KNRC Championship." "We drive the most underpowered car in the championship but we compensate for it with guts, reliability, and attention to detail. We've always remained resilient in the face of adversity as it's not an easy task to achieve results in an underpowered car. Varese attributed his brave Naivasha outing to his longstanding navigator and former classmate at Brookhouse School. "Having Kigo (Kareithi) call our pace notes is like music to my ears. I mean, 16 years together and back on the FIA African Rally Championship front against sophisticated machinery at the weekend was a such great feeling for us," narrates Varese. Kareithi guided Varese to the 12th overall position at the ARC Equator Rally and indeed settled for the second position in the KNRC 2WD category behind 19- year-old Rio Smith. Smith had retired with mechanical problems on the first loop of Leg One on Saturday but fixed the damage on his RC2 Rally 4 Ford Fiesta to rejoin the rally on the "Super Rally" rule, thus closing Sunday's final Leg 2 In 10th overall position. Varese, on the other hand, endured the full route in Naivasha including the dreaded loose volcanic ash gravel at Kedong to survive the energy-sapping conditions when majority of the competitors were dependent on the Super Rally for survival. “The potential to keep going in our 2WD Toyota Auris is there. Don’t forget, in Mogotio we could not carry any Class points because we were lone rangers in 2WD. It was good having competition with Rio in Naivasha. I'm looking forward to Sameer Nanji's return in his 2WD VW Golf." Varese will be looking for another strong finish when the KNRC heads to Eldoret. He will be joined at the iconic Eldoret Rally by Nanji in his bid for title victory in 2022. "The Classic Safari Rally routes aren't for the faint hearted. They need good endurance fitness and concentration. "I believe I'm in the best possible shape physically and perfect weight. So I never got exhausted. Nevertheless, in such circumstances, we could not afford any mistakes given the twisty nature of done stretches," he explained. He said the first loop at the wildlife conservancy in Soysambu was super wet on Saturday. "For the second round, the course was very dry, so we kept it clean but had a small brush in the wet with a tree on SS3 that took our side mirror but otherwise nothing serious to that effect," he noted. "Day 2 of Equator Rally featured very tough stages with SS7 Loldia being uphill on loose dust/sand, which by any standards was tough for any 2WD. And for a 1600cc to pull through, we had to be on song with no mistakes, no offs and full power to avoid getting stuck." Varese, nevertheless, believes it's too early to predict his championship prospects. "It's still early days but we are focused on getting to the end and so far, we have three out of three finishes and we are overly excited about it. He said the car will undergo major setup work and check-ups in the run-up to KNRC 4 in Eldoret. "We can't afford to take things for granted at the moment but we are very happy with the development of the Toyota Auris in Kenya," he says.