Former Police IG Joseph Kimaiyo Boinnet has rejected the results of the UDA primaries for the Elgeyo Marakwet governor seat Boinnet claims that he won but the figures were altered in favour of Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich. Even though he has rejected the results, Boinnet did not disclose whether he would run as an independent candidate or file an appeal with the UDA Electoral and Nominations Dispute Resolution Committee. “I will not go that route. I leave everything to those who messed up with the exercise but I also cry for my people who will not have an opportunity to benefit from my service as a leader with long time experience and expertise,” Boinnet said. Speaking in Eldoret Boinnet said although Rotich was declared winner with more than 42,000 votes, tallying by his team indicated that the figures were massively altered. In the tallying Boinnet was second with about 32,000 votes. Boinnet says UDA had put in place good measures to ensure the exercise was free and fair especially during voting but the final results were messed up during the tallying period. He gave instances where votes for his rival were inflated than the actual figures. Boinnet claimed that In Marakwet West, the DG got 9,350 votes but at the tallying the votes were inflated to indicate he got 19,350 which was an addition of 10,000 votes. Boinnet also cited cases where the number of those who voted at some polling stations was higher than the number of registered voters. A visibly emotional Boinnet revealed that at some point, an elections official called him asking for Sh20,000 so that he could inflate his votes and announce him as the winner. “I rejected the offer because I am a Christian and cannot participate in theft which amounts to sin,” Boinnet said. Boinnet said the same crude methods used to steal his victory were available to him but he could not engage in such primitive and immoral irregularities. The ex-IG has blamed four individuals whom he accuses of messing up the election results. He said the four were his friends and people he had even talked to after the elections. “When I asked them why they messed up with the election results, one of them asked me if I was a new person in Kenya. He told me to learn how Kenyan operates," Boinnet said. He said the four had claimed to be working for interests of some powerful individuals in the party. “When I checked out I established that the four had not been sent by anyone and the party was not even aware of any move to tamper with the nominations,"  Boinnet said. Boinnet said because of his strong Christian belief and a foundation of standing for the truth, those who messed up with the exercise are now regretting it. “Just like in our tradition, when someone you know steals your cow, you have the choice of going to that person and telling him that you have left the animal to him." He said he would still be available to serve the people of Elgeyo Marakwet in any capacity adding that God knows what the future holds for him and the people of his county. UDA nominee Rotich did not take calls or answer texts to respond to claims by Boinnet.