Our pastor's Palm Sunday sermon was an interesting one and indeed an eye opener to our God-given identity. It is one that continued ringing loud in my head long after the 9am service was over. The story of Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem in Luke 19:28-44 is usually analysed from the perspective of the rapturous reception Christ received from the city residents. Indeed, this kind of welcome is a reminder to all of us regarding our attitude to Christ when we encounter Him. Do you receive Him with joy, or do you give Him a cold shoulder, wanting nothing to do with Him? However, the key part of the sermon that stuck out was the donkey on which Jesus rode into Jerusalem. Its life had been radically transformed from an ordinary 'beast of burden' into a vessel to transport the Messiah, the son of God. To quote the words of Rev Apela: "It was another ordinary day for this ordinary donkey, which was eating ordinary grass... until Jesus came into its life." This is the same case for us. When Jesus comes into our lives, we are no longer ordinary but extraordinary people. The donkey that was tied to the pole was not the same one that was given a red carpet reception in Jerusalem courtesy of Jesus Christ. Think about it for a minute. There were probably hundreds of thousands — or even millions — of donkeys worldwide. Yet, Jesus specifically directed His disciples to this particular one, while He was making preparations to enter Jerusalem. In Luke 19:31, He tells them: "If anyone asks you why you are untying it, say the Lord needs it." And so the question remains: Which donkey are you? The one chained to a life without freedom? Or the one fulfilling the prophecy of Zechariah in Zechariah 9:9? The problem with many people in today's world is looking for their life's purpose in the wrong places. We have conjured up misplaced definition of joy and subsequently make a lot of missteps in our pursuit of the same. Many have also conformed to worldly patterns and perceptions, such that they are content with a life of mediocrity. We do not see ourselves as the special possessions, royal priesthoods and holy nations as God desires for us in 1 Peter 2:9. As a result of wrong strategies in life, many of us are in little prisons, our legs tied to huge dumbbells, such that we are never making progress in life. We are living ordinary lives, unaware of the great potential God has deposited within us. So, rather than seek solace in booze, drugs and all the perverted things life can offer, it is wiser to open up our hearts and give Christ a triumphal welcome. When He comes in, He will free us from captivity as He outlines in Luke 4:18-19 and enable our potential to explode to life. After all, doesn't God say in Jeremiah 29:11 that His plans are to prosper us... to give us a hope and a future?