Sharon Atieno grinned from tooth to tooth when the security guards on gate 12 at Nyayo national stadium let her in. The threatening morning rain, she explained to the officers, made her late for the former president Mwai Kibaki’s requiem mass which she swore she'd not miss. “Better late than never. I lost my father in 2002 when I was in Class 5. He was the breadwinner and everyone was certain I would drop out of school,” Atieno said. “Today, I hold a Master’s degree in Finance. I went to school because Kibaki, initiated free primary education. Some would argue it was his responsibility as a president and that he had promised in his manifesto, but how many politicians keep their promises?” she posed. Just like Atieno, many Kenyans defied the biting early morning cold and threatening rains to throng Nyayo stadium to bid Kenya’s third president farewell. From the red-carpeted podium, Nyayo stadium showcased a breathtakingly green field with well-trimmed grass. A brown runway and concrete gutter separated the field from the curved white and green terraces, fitted with chairs and white protective grills. The podium, fenced with glass and decorated with Kenyan flags, gave it a sleek modern look that deceives the eyes about the age of a stadium that has been in existence for close to three decades. The long-necked marabou storks that often flounce the stadium, hawking noisily with their stout bills, were nowhere to be seen. A few minutes before Kibaki’s body arrived, the dark clouds that had haunted city residents all week, quickly opened up exposing the warm sun that hid yonder. Donned in a black suit and a white shirt accessorised with a black tie underneath, President Uhuru Kenyatta arrived in Nyayo at 10.15am on Friday ready for his unenviable task of overseeing his predecessor's  state funeral, an exercise he has done twice during his second term. Behind the presidential convoy was a military platoon wheeling a jungle-green gun stately carriage which had the remains of Kenya’s third president who had ruled for 10 years, a great display. The stretch was long, but the men in uniform would go to any length for the Commander-in Chief. Behind, was another carriage carrying Kibaki’s sons and grandsons, all dressed in cold black suits. Still in utter awe, the crowd loudly identified Kibaki’s eldest son Jimmy, and wondered who Tony and David were. The two have always evaded the public eye and maintained a very private life. The family stared ahead, unbothered by the attention they were attracting except Jimmy, whose face lit up as the carriage went round the stadium with the guard of honour. Kibaki, a staunch Catholic in life, was set on his final journey by the Catholic Church led by Nairobi’s Archbishop Philip Anyolo. His casket, its value unknown, was draped in the national flag with 36 military officers in the ceremonial uniform of the rank of Major and above, as pallbearers. The flag cover is symbolic to affirm that the fallen soldier is mourned by the entire nation and appreciated for his sacrifice. Kibaki’s body had left Lee Funeral Home carried in a small but artful hearse for State House before the procession made way to Nyayo Stadium as part of full military honour accorded to the former president. Making its exit through Gate A at State House, the truck was driven slowly, with the military band playing sorrowful tunes. Different military officers distinguished by the colour of their regalia snaked their way from State House through Processional Way, to Kenyatta Avenue, Uhuru highway before getting to the stadium past Bunyala roundabout. The route had been cordoned off to the public. At least 10 heads of state and government attended Kibaki’s state funeral including South African president Cyril Ramaphosa, his South Sudan counterpart Salva Kiir and Ethiopia's Sahle-Work-Zewde, former Malawi President Joyce Banda and Rwanda Prime Minister Edouard Ngirente. Others included Zimbabwe Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, his Tanzanian counterpart Philip Mpango and Uganda’s Jessica Alupo. Also present were Commonwealth secretary general Patricia Scotland and Sri Lanka’s Special Envoy Jayathma Wickramanayake. After the requiem mass, the family, friends and President Kenyatta paid tributes; outpouring of sympathy for a politician in a country packed with millions of extremely cynical people with disdain for the career. In polished English and careful choice of words, the guests paid homage to the ex-president. Using double entendre and satire, the leaders also used the opportunity to pass their political messages to the mourners even after the bereaved family asked them to keep politics out of their father’s funeral. Kibaki's son Jimmy, described his father as a leader who always strived for excellence, even when he missed success. Uhuru described Kibaki as an astute leader, distinguished gentleman and a principled and visionary politician who oversaw the country’s economic growth and set the foundation for future growth. “Kibaki was by all means a model man and did not believe in loud shouting,” Uhuru said. Kibaki died on April 21, 2022 aged 90 years and will be laid to rest in his Othaya home on Saturday 30, April. 