Kenya Kwanza Alliance Nairobi governor aspirant Johnson Sakaja has named Absa Bank Kenya Ltd Chief Operating Officer James Njoroge Muchiri as his running mate. Muchiri had contested in the recently concluded United Democratic Alliance (UDA) primaries for the Nyandarua governor’s seat but lost out to businessman Kiarie Badilisha. Sakaja is set to unveil him today in the afternoon as Kenya Kwanza also unveils the Nairobi team line up including the members of parliament and members of the county assemblies. According to the Gubernatorial hopeful, Njoroge will bring in vast skills and knowledge from the cooperate world which makes him the perfect choice of a running mate. "He is willingly coming to serve the people and that is what Nairobians need in a servant. We will run the city of Nairobi professionally," Sakaja told the Star. The duo will now face Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance Coalition Nairobi lineup in the August polls. Jubilee’s Polycarp Igathe is the coalition’s gubernatorial flag bearer and will be deputised by former Kibwezi MP Philip Kaloki who is from the Kalonzo Musyoka-led Wiper Democratic Movement party. Orange Democratic Movement ( ODM) party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna was handed the senatorial ticket while incumbent Esther Passaris will fly the Woman Representative flag. Njoroge is a guru in the cooperate world and has had a packed career profile tagged to his name. Prior to joining Absa, he has previously served as a Computer Science Lecturer at the University of Nairobi and as an Information Technology  consultant at KPMG Njoroge was also at Standard Chartered Kenya, working as a Project Manager and later served as the  Director of Standard Chartered in  Botswana. At Standard Chartered, he served as the Head of Banking Service Delivery Africa. Later he joined NIC Bank as its Director of Technology and Operations and Managing Director of the NIC Bank Tanzania In Barclays Bank now Absa, he served as Director of Digital Banking, Customer Network Director  and currently the Chief Operating Officer, EDUCATION PROFILE Njoroge attended  Ririchua Primary School and then proceed to Mang'u High School. He also schooled in Alliance High School for advanced levels (A-levels). Njoroge later joined  Kenyatta University (KU) to pursue a Bachelor's Degree of Education Science specialising in Mathematics and Computer Science. He then went to the University of Nairobi (UoN) to study Computer Science, Banking, and Financial Support Services.