President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on different armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo to lay down their weapons and work with President Félix Tshisekedi in nurturing peace and stability in the country. In a recorded message at the Inter-Congolese Peace Dialogue convened by Kenya, President Kenyatta emphasised that without working together, each of them will remain a loser. “…without laying down weapons and forging an unbreakable national compact to secure the DRC, the fruits of prosperity, that you all deserve from the teeming rich endowments, will remain elusive," he said on Wednesday. “This makes it urgent for all people of goodwill in the DRC to coalesce together and frantically set a foundation of prosperity by working tirelessly for an enduring peace.” Uhuru noted that the value of peace is unique and uncontested, and that nothing enduring can be built on shifty soils of insecurity. He likened Kenya’s facilitation of the peace dialogue to the traditional drummer calling elders to the village square to talk through pressing matters that threaten to breach the tranquility of a peaceful people. “The historical call to be our brothers’ keepers is a bell that has been tolling and to which Kenya always keeps responding. We will not relent in your pursuit of peace for prosperity. This is why we reached out to you, our brothers, our sisters of the DRC,” the President said. He thanked President Tshisekedi and the armed groups in DR Congo for heeding Kenya’s solidarity call on the peace dialogue, encouraging them to speak and harness all their efforts towards moving the country forward. Uhuru assured DR Congo of Kenya's support to their common goal as they forge ahead to create a favourable environment to secure prosperity for the people. He cited the example of building Kenya as a state where the people, in all their broad diversity, made considerable personal and communal sacrifices to keep the flame of peace burning. “Just to give two examples, our promulgation of the 2010 new Constitution as well as my 2018 Handshake with my rival in the last election, all called for steep sacrifices from our leaders and also from our people.” President Tshisekedi commended the armed groups for agreeing to dialogue with his Government, stating that their positive response is an act of honour to their country. He expressed his readiness to listen and guarantee security of all armed groups, pointing out that DR Congo will only develop if it has a national military and police force that is keen on defending the interests of all citizens. “I understand the different reasons that drew you to take up arms. However, to develop our country, we need to build and sustain national defence forces and police that are keen to defend the daughters and sons of DRC,” Tshisekedi said. He called on all armed groups to accept the process of disarmament, demobilisation, reintegration and reinsertion to help in reconstruction of the nation. “This is a process that will take into account all concerns. We are going to obtain the technical and other support from many donors to enable us to succeed,” Tshisekedi added. Representatives of over 30 armed groups participated in the talks with majority accepting the request of the two Heads of State to lay down arms. A few, however, requested to be given more time to appraise themselves with the set conditions but expressed willingness to join hands in building their country.