Marsabit first lady Alamitu Jattani has urged women to form groups and benefit from the various county development projects. Jattani spoke on Monday at Dirib in Saku subcounty when she donated items to Tokuma women group. "It's easier for people to benefit from both the government and non-governmental organisations when they are organised in groups," she said. The first lady said women should also come together and register companies where they shall be able to apply for tenders. She said 30 per cent of the tenders are allocated to women, youth and people living with disabilities. "Social and economic empowerment through various development programmes is paramount for a community's development," Jattani said. She said more than 33 women groups in six wards benefitted from the smart climate project, with each group receiving Sh700,000. The first lady lauded the project for targeting women who have been traditionally neglected. She said Governor Ali Mohamud Mohamed's administration has given healthcare and education top priority following years of marginalisation. Jattani said more than 80 per cent of mothers delivered at home without proper hygiene and care. However, the opening of a maternity wing a the county referral hospital has increased hospital deliveries. She said the Marsabit government has also built and equipped the intensive care unit, renal centre and x-ray centre. It has also bought a dialysis machine and CT scan in all subcounties, reducing cases of referral. The first lady further said the opening of the cancer center was a relief to patients who had to travel to other counties for treatment. The four-bed unit will see patients get their doses of chemotherapy, review and treatment at the facility. Jattani however said residents should go for early screening and diagnosis. She said health personnel carry outreach clinics and screening in all  subcounties to create awareness on the benefits of early diagnosis. The first lady also urged county staff to jealously defend the government they serve by informing residents of their achievements. She also said residents should be united and coexist harmoniously. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)