Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said increasing soil acidity is a major cause of lower production, especially in high-producing maize areas. He said on Monday that for 40 years farmers have used chemical fertilisers that increase soil acidity, hence reducing fertility required for high production. The CS urged them to use locally produced, soil-specific fertilisers that don't contain damaging chemicals, not imported varieties. "Soil acidity issue is a major concern and we are putting in place interventions. They include sensitising farmers on how not to damage our soil," Munya said. He addressed farmers in Eldoret after visiting the NCPB depot to inspect the distribution of subsidised fertiliser. He was with Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei and NCPB managing director Joseph Kimote. "Some individuals produce fertiliser locally and farmers should consider their products to increase production," Munya said. He said the current fertiliser crisis can easily be dealt with if farmers use local products instead of depending on imports. The CS said there was adequate subsidised fertiliser available, funded by the government for Sh5.7 billion. The original plan was for Sh32 billion subsidised fertiliser nationwide but the money was diverted to election costs. He said firms supplying fertiliser have adequate supplies and farmers should register to benefit. “We have asked all the fertiliser firms to bring in supplies so we replenish the stores on a needs basis," Munya said. He said Kenya was the only country in the region that still subsidises fertiliser and petroleum. He urged NCPB officials and others distributing subsidised fertiliser to ensure it benefits only registered farmers, not those wanting to cash in on the cheaper product. Munya said the shortage of petroleum products was a creation of cartels making huge profits at the expense of the economy. He said the country had enough oil products and there should have been no shortages. The state had not paid oil marketers their subsidies, however. (Edited by V. Graham)