UDA primaries fallout has intensified as Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara accused Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika of bungling the process in Naivasha. Though Kihara has since received the party nomination certificate, she accused Kihika of colluding with her opponents so she would lose the nomination. Kihika had no competition so she was awarded the UDA ticket for governor. Last week, Kihara controversially lost to former MP John Kihagi, forcing her to appeal to the party tribunal. It heard the case and awarded her the nomination certificate. Kihika has already denied backing Kihara’s rival in the nomination and downplayed reports of a falling out in the UDA party. Speaking in Naivasha after joining her supporters in celebrating the new win, Kihara accused Kihika of being partisan. She alleged the presiding officers had instructions to make sure she lost but was grateful to the tribunal for upholding her win. “For some unknown reasons, the senator has been supporting my competitors and we are grateful that justice has been done and I can now focus on the general election,” she said. Kihara, who is an ardent supporter of DP William Ruto, said she would not campaign for Kihika, if she continues to work for her opponents. “I believe I won with more than one vote and we are putting Kihika on notice that she risks losing our support if she continues  partisan politics,” she said. UDA candidate for Viwandani ward Mwangi Muraya praised the tribunal for the decision, saying justice had been done. He said it was time for the losers and winners to join hands and support the party so they could win the general election. “Naivasha residents had been robbed off their right but we are happy the party has nullified the certificate issued to the 'losing' candidate,” he said. Kung’u Chege, another supporter, said after days of uncertainty, justice had been done by the party’s tribunal. “We are now ready to go to the ground and meet the electorate as we are done with the first huddle. We are keen to continue the development record," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)