Cash handouts, marital status and clan membership play a key role in how Budalangi residents in Busia pick their leaders, a new survey has shown. Though many voters said they consider the candidates' vision for them, those who give cash handouts have a high chance of getting elected. The baseline survey by the Bunyala Professional Association in March showed some of the constituents would consider voting for a candidate who gave them cash over that who fairly allocated bursaries or used CDF funds well. “5.5 out of 10 people said they would vote for Andrew Nakitare, an MP candidate based on cash handouts,” the report showed. Further, despite many people rating the incumbent Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala's general performance at 2.33 out of five, the survey showed he emerged second among the preferred candidates. BAPRO chairperson Joseph Shiekhwe said the mechanisms for electing leaders differ between professionals and community members. “Some of the factors that influence the choice of leaders like cash handouts stems from lack of information. Instead of addressing the root cause of the problem, politicians take advantage of the gap and offer temporary solutions,” Shiekhwe sad. He said they have been conducting civic education though unconventionally among the residents in an individual capacity. “In the future, however, we plan to have more organised ways of passing information to the people on the roles of the leaders and how to interrogate politicians to get the best,” he said. According to the report, other issues the voters consider include candidates who have initiated development projects, conducted fund drives and are affiliated with a party to which the voters subscribe. The survey showed after their level of education, the voters would consider party affiliation, the marital status and gender of the candidates vying for the MPs position. Budalangi is one of the seven constituencies in Busia with 49,308 registered voters according to 2022 data by Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission. Out of the 1262 people interviewed, 724 people said they support Azimio la Umoja while 433 support United Democratic Alliance. In the survey, UDA candidate Ajuma Maloba would topple the incumbent MP to emerge as the Bunyala MP. “28 per cent of the respondents said they would vote for Maloba while 22 per cent would vote for Wanjala,” the report said. Out of the 344 people who said they would vote for Maloba, 191 said they support Azimio, 130 support UDA while 228 Wanjala supporters said they support Azimio, and only 32 from UDA. These statistics, however, sway away from the rankings of the choice of leaders by BAPRO following an engagement with different aspirants. For five months, the association had been interviewing candidates on their agenda for the constituency and county. The group had listed governor aspirant Lucas Meso of Jubilee as the most preferred governor for Busia and Peter Osogo of ODM as the most suitable MP. Joseph Shiekhwe, BAPRO chairperson said the discrepancy is born of a lack of information among the residents that influence their choice of candidate. “It was not unexpected the people’s choice could deviate from the findings of the professionals. While fund drives and cash handouts are a major consideration, BAPRO focused on policies,” he said. Paul Otuoma would be the Busia governor while Okiya Omtata the senator if elections were held today. Despite Otuoma taking an early lead, the survey projects quite a precarious governor race, as most of the supporters (49 per cent) of his main opponent from UDA John Bunyasi pledged allegiance to Azimio. 38 per cent out of the 1262 people from Bunyala were interviewed and said they would vote for Otuoma. Half of his supporters are affiliated with Azimio. Other aspirants vying for the position of the governor are the incumbent deputy governor Moses Mulomi (12 per cent) with Democratic Alliance Party. The professionals said Otuoma needed to pay more attention to his development strategy to include Lower Nzoia transformation, industrialisation in Bunyala, infrastructure, culture transformation, environment, climate change and Lake Victoria management. “He also failed to effectively engage and articulate on agriculture, Blue Economy and agribusiness, People with Disabilities issues, health, and maternal care, sports and culture development,” Shiekhwe said. For the position of the MP, the team lauded Osogo’s presentation solutions on poverty eradication, industrialisation, business, and commerce. “Education and people development, flood mitigation, Lake Victoria management, and food security featured impressively in his responses but were lacking in Ajuma’s,” BAPRO member Jude Ogula. “We however felt Osogo needed to incorporate consultative leadership and inclusion of different stakeholders in decision making.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris