ODM members in Siaya will not have a chance to nominate a governor or senator of their choice during the party’s primaries on Wednesday. For the constituency seats, not every electorate in every sub-county will have the privilege of casting their vote. In a communique signed by the party’s National Elections Board chairperson Catherine Muma Tuesday night, the electorates only have an opportunity of nominating a Women representative and 30 Ward Representatives. For the parliamentary races, only voters in Bondo, Gem and Alego Usonga constituencies will get an opportunity to elect their preferred candidate on Wednesday. As voters in Bondo go to the ballot this morning, they will have to make a choice between incumbent Dr Gideon Ochanda, Racheal Omollo, Andiwo Mwai, Linnette Olima and Andiwo Obondo. In Gem constituency, there is a stiff competition between incumbent Elisha Odhiambo and Dr Jalang’o Midiwo. Jalang’o is an elder brother of the late former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo. Voters in Alego Usonga will at the end of the day nominate either the sitting MP Samuel Atandi, Dr Kut Ochogo or Prof Jacqueline Oduol. The statement did not say anything with respect to Rarieda and Ugenya constituencies. Word has it that the current Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo has been issued with a direct ticket, in readiness for a second term. The Star could not immediately establish what became of the six aspirants who have been angling for the Ugenya MP seat. The aspirants included former area MP Chris Karan, Fred ogolla, Daniel Odhiambo, Clement Omollo, Michael Oliech and Rodger Sagana. The direct ticket for Ugunja parliamentary seat had earlier been bagged by the incumbent Opiyo Wandayi. “All aspirants and party members in affected counties are advised to prepare to participate and keep the peace during the primaries,” Mumma’s statement read in part. It is widely believed that EALA MP Oburu Oginga and senator James Orengo have been given direct tickets for the senate and governor seats, respectively. Tony Yogo, on Tuesday, left the ODM party in protest, saying that he had learnt that the nomination certificate had been issued to Oburu. He said that he is now seeking the seat as an independent candidate and will challenge the Orange party’s nominee during the general elections on August 9, 2022. “Under the circumstances, I have been left with no other choice other than to abandon my candidature in the ODM party and seek the Siaya senatorial seat as an independent candidate,” Yogo said in a Statement. Another senate hopeful Julius (JT) Okinda had initially expressed his fears that the party was hellbent to give Oburu a direct ticket. Okinda said that he would give his followers direction at the opportune moment. Bella Akinyi pulled out of the governor race on Monday, citing chaos in ODM. George Mbeya, another governor aspirant, spent Monday and Tuesday in Nairobi, hoping that the party would inform him of the intrigues but no-one came forth with explanations until when Mumma issued the statement. “I have been in Nairobi seeking an audience with party officials but I have not succeeded in meeting the party leader,” Mbeya told the Star on phone. He added that he had no idea about the decision to not to have the governor nominated by the people.