ODM has moved to forestall a further backlash and possible fallout in Mombasa after nominations results were disputed in at least five wards. On April 16, Kongowea MCA Mohamed Abrari got a reprieve after the party tribunal directed that he be declared the winner of the April 9 exercise. Although he had garnered 563 votes more than his closest challenger Kevin Moi Ondiek, it was Ondiek who was declared the winner and issued with the interim nomination certificate. No explanations were given by the ODM National Elections Board. This forced Abrari to seek redress from the party’s disputes tribunal. “The tribunal directs that the NEB to within 48 hours announce the winner of the Kongowea ward party primaries strictly guided by the result declaration form signed by the agents of the aspirants,” the tribunal’s orders read in part. However, by Monday 6pm, Abrari was yet to be declared winner of the primaries. Abrari told the Star on Monday the party nominations were full of questionable outcomes but many of the genuine winners were denied the certificates because of their ignorance. He said many did not lodge complaints with the party’s disputes tribunal within 36 hours after the end of the exercise as required by the party rules and regulations. “Grasp of the party rules is very vital,” Abrari said. Abrari fell out with the party leadership in Mombasa because he opposed some of the party decisions in the county assembly. He had appealed the issuance of an interim nomination certificate to Ondiek, and asked the tribunal to order it quashed and a new one issued to him as the winner. The tribunal argued that the NEB did not offer any credible explanation for the award of the certificate to Ondiek. “It is only alluding to secret meetings taking place and that the decision was made by the commission, an explanation that we completely find wanting, lacking merit and not sufficient to shake the appeal as filed,” Eunice Maumo, the presiding judge of the tribunal said. “We are therefore compelled to agree with the appellant as there is demonstrated manifest irregularities." After the ruling, Abrari and his supporters took to the streets to celebrate. “Justice has been served and democracy has triumphed,” Abarari said. He said he expected to be issued with the nomination certificate before the end of Monday. “The party rules also say that the winner of nominations should be issued with the certificate 24 hours after the elections, and in public," Abrari said. He revealed that after the tribunal ruling, he got calls from other aspirants who said they were also rigged out and wanted justice. “The bigwigs used delaying tactics to ensure that the 36 hours lapsed. They kept on telling the aspirants to wait for a decision,” Abrari said. After 36 hours, if there is no appeal, the party can issue a certificate to whoever it pleases, according to the Kongowea MCA. “They will assume the nomination exercise went well and that there is no complaint,” he said. ODM Mombasa chairperson Mohamed Khamis said the party has been fair to its members and seeks to ensure  justice is served. Khamis had made it a mantra that nominations would be free and fair to avoid any fallout. (Edited by Tabnacha O)