UDA primaries in North Rift counties were marked by confusion and delays in delivery of voting material. The hiccups led to voting delays in Deputy President William Ruto's backyard on Thursday. In most polling stations in Eldoret town, material and officials failed to appear by 11am yet the exercise had been scheduled to start by 6am. At MV Patel, which is the largest polling station in Eldoret with more than 20,000 voters, voting material had not arrived by 11am. Party supporters led by Jane Waithera protested the delays. “We have waited for long. This is failure on the part of the UDA elections board, which had assured us that the exercise will go on smoothly,” she said. Many voters left without voting at several polling stations including UG Primary, Langas Primary, Kimumu and Huruma. Voting however started peacefully in some parts of Ainabkoi constituency in Uasin Gishu where material was distributed early. In Nandi county, only Kapsabet town started the voting process early. Other officials struggled to deliver material and blamed the party for poor logistical arrangements. However nominations for Nandi Hills MP seat were cancelled following the death of one of the aspirants last week. Party official Paul Kiprop said they had experienced logistical challenges in distribution of material. He however said systems have been put in place to ensure smooth primaries in the region. "We have had a few delays in distribution of ballot material but overall things are moving well," Kiprop said. He said the party is keen on ensuring peace during the voting exercise and that the delays will not affect the process much. In rural areas of Uasin Gishu, most polling centres recorded a low turnout but voting started earlier than in urban areas. Key contests to watch include the governor's race in Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Baringo, where top allies of DP Ruto are participating. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang is seeking the UDA ticket against six aspirants including former governor Cleophas Lagat and lawyer Allan Kosgey. In Elgeyo Marakwet, former IG Joseph Boinnet is battling against key rival deputy governor Wesley Rotich in the race for governor. Elgeyo Marakwet officials said despite delays, voting is going on well in most areas. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago is also battling against former journalist Robert Kemei and lawyer Kipchumba Karoli for the Senate ticket. Mandago said he is confident the exercise will still go on smoothly despite the hitches and he will win the primaries. Tallying of votes is expected to go on through the night. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)