Murang’a county has distributed free maize seedlings to more than 250,000 homesteads to plant during the long rains. In a food security programme established six years ago, the administration has been issuing high quality seedlings to farmers in a bid to shield them from hunger. Previously, thousands of residents depended on relief food from the national government and donors every time they experienced drought, with several dying from starvation. Speaking while distributing the seeds on Monday in Gatanga subcounty, Governor Mwangi wa Iria said the county has become food-dependent, with most homes producing enough to consume and sell. The high quality seeds are produced in partnership with the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation. They are customised to adapt with the three climatic zones in the county, including the tea zones, coffee zones and the semi-arid areas. With each homestead receiving a 2kg pack of seeds, the governor said farmers previously faced the challenge of procuring low quality seeds that gave meagre yields. “The seeds are fast maturing and are designed to withstand the changing weather patterns,” Wa Iria said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the county used community health workers to distribute the seeds to individual homes without exposing farmers to the disease. The hybrid maize seeds enable farmers to harvest an average of 18 bags of maize per acre, which has financially empowered them. “Each season, we are able to produce more than 900,000 bags of maize, which in turn rakes in more than Sh3 billion,” Wa Iria said. Farmers hailed the county for the programme, saying it saves them the agony of sourcing for seeds every season. Harun Kamau said the variety produces several maize cobs from each crop and that the harvest is enough to sustain his family to the next season. “We are no longer queuing in chiefs’ camps to receive food donations. We are now making enough food for ourselves through this programme,” he said. The governor, who is vying for the presidency, pledged to ensure the country has sufficient food, if he is elected. He dismissed claims he is hoping to make pre-elections deals with other presidential aspirants, saying he will be on the presidential ballot. “I am not vying for the seat to be ‘bought’ as some have ben claiming. I will go all the way to the ballot and the votes from the Mt Kenya region are enough to push one to the position,” he said. He said his competitors, Raila Odinga and William Ruto, both have the assurance of votes from their backyards and appealed to residents to rally behind him. “This country can only be united by someone who is not bitter. They keep throwing stones at each other and the only way to stop their constant fights is to vote for me," he said. Wa Iria also took the chance to drum up support for aspirants vying through his Usawa Kwa Wote party, saying a vote for them is a vote for him.  (edited by Amol Awuor)