Independent candidates in Kericho County have been asked to withdraw from the August election to allow their rivals from the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) to win. Independent candidates for the gubernatorial seat, Elijah Maru and Engineer Samuel Rotich, were urged to support UDA candidates. UDA gubernatorial nominee Dr Eric Mutai said losers in the party primaries and those going for various seats as independents will be considered for jobs if DP William Ruto becomes Kenya's fifth president. Dr Mutai and his running mate Engineer Fred Kirui told the electorate to focus on those who landed UDA nomination tickets right from MCAs to the gubernatorial seats. “We will ensure losers in the UDA primaries and those who have come out as independents are accommodated for jobs both at county and national levels once deputy president is elected as Kenya's fifth president,” Dr Mutai said. “For the DP to have an easy sailing to Statehouse in the August 9 general election, we should prepare well in Kericho, Bomet, Nandi, Uasin Gishu and the entire Rift Valley so that we can deliver 99 per cent votes for the hustler movement." He promised to deliver as the second governor of Kericho without discrimination, favouritism and nepotism. “I cannot do that single-handedly unless I get support from my competitors in the seat of the governor,” Dr Eric Mutai told his supporters at the county tallying centre at Kericho Tea Boys Secondary school in Kericho town. He said he harbours no grudge against anyone who declared interest for the seat. Vetaran politician Charles Keter emerged distant second after garnering 60,342 against Dr Mutai's 126,038 votes. County WomAn Representative Florence Bore lost to Beatrice Kemei. Beatrice was declared the UDA nominee after garnering 87,182 against Bore's 64,651 votes. Senator Aron Cheruiyot was handed over the UDA nomination certificate in absententia. He went unopposed since he hand no challenger during the primaries. However, the Senator may not have it easy during August 9 general election since an independent candidate, Aquneeas Chepchumba, has entered the race. Elsewhere, four out of six sitting Members of the National Assembly lost in the UDA primaries. In Ainamoi constituency, outgoing Kenya ambassador to Namibia Benjamin Langat beat incumbent Silvanous Maritim by over 17,000 votes against Maritims 13,000. Before last General Election, Langat was the MP. In Belgut, outspoken MP Nelson Koech retained the seat after beating new comer Betrease Sigei. Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo was beaten by seasonal politician Joseph Cherorot who garnered 11,219 against Limo's 8,981 votes. In Soin/Sigowet, former MP Justice Kemei made a come back after beating the MP Kipsengeret Koros by 11,848 against 10,860 votes. In Bureti, incumbent Japheth Mutai was tossed out by newcomer Kibet Komingoi. In Kipkelion West, incumbent Hilary Koske took the ticket after beating former MP Jackson Rop. Hilary got 15,000 against Rop's 8,083 votes.