It’s an all-women affair in Nakuru County as females emerge winners in the United Democratic Alliance ( UDA) Party primaries that were conducted on Thursday. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who is eyeing the governor seat did not face any primaries as she did not have any competitor seeking the same position under UDA. Kihika has been accompanying UDA’s presidential candidate Deputy President William Ruto to campaigns across the country and has been among the key politicians that the DP is relying on to sell UDA’s agenda. In 2013, she contested the Bahati parliamentary seat but lost. Kihika then went on to beat a field of seven opponents, to emerge as the first Assembly Speaker of Nakuru County. In 2017, the former Former Speaker under  Jubilee Party made her debut in the 12th Parliament after she garnered  637,700 votes in the Nakuru Senatorial seat. Entrepreneur founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Keroche Breweries, Tabitha Karanja won the Senatorial primaries. Early this year, the businesswoman said she had done a lot of "soul searching" and consulting before settling for UDA. Karanja stated that UDA fitted her ideologies which include supporting upcoming traders. Current Nakuru Woman Rep Chelule Chepkorir won the UDA ticket to defend her seat after beating businesswoman Flora Kiprop Rono in the primaries. In 2017, Chelule garnered 507,999 votes to win the seat but under Jubilee Party and will also defend her set in the August polls. The incumbent Njoro MP Charity Kathambi also managed to get the UDA ticket to defend her seat in the August polls. She was facing former Kameme FM presenter Njogu Wa Njoroge who accepted defeat and congratulated Kathambi. Nominated MCA Susan Nyambura also won in the Njoro ward primaries. A supporter of women leadership, she had earlier noted that the most common challenge women politicians encounter is cultural barrier because of the patriarchal nature of the Kenyan society. Nyambura also observed that lack of finances to fund their campaigns is another major hindrance to women as they are often constrained to move around or even organise meetings with prospective voters.