Kenya Kwanza Alliance Nairobi governor candidate Johnson Sakaja has settled on Absa Bank Kenya Ltd Chief Operating Officer James Njoroge Muchiri as his running mate This was after one-month consultations with the Kenya Kwanza team. Speaking to the Star, Sakaja revealed that he looked at five pillars while picking his running mate, including energy and resilience, and business focus. "The DG has to have the heart of the people. Someone who can easily relate to the livelihood of Nairobi residents and can relate to their daily needs. One who will have no struggles connecting with people and that is what Is aw in Njoroge,” he said. Corporate background and experience was also a major factor to consider for a deputy, according to Sakaja. "Njoroge is a guru in the cooperate world and his profile speaks for itself. His experience from the corporate world cannot go unrecognized and we need those skills to manage  Nairobi county," he said. “I need a running mate who has communication skills, teamwork skills and brings in problem-solving skills from the cooperate world. This blend I believe will be best in running Nairobi for the next five years,” Sakaja added. Sakaja, who is the incumbent Nairobi Senator, said he needed a candidate who would complement his attributes for the purpose of coordination. "We all saw what happened between the former Governor and his deputy barely six months after the August 2017 elections. The fallout started because they were not in sync." "Njoroge and I have matching attributes and personalities to be able to work seamlessly together. We share the same ideas of how the capital city should be managed,” he noted. Even before he was declared as Kenya Kwanza’s governor candidate, Sakaja had explained that his campaign strategy involved meeting the residents of Nairobi and listening to their views. It was in these meetings that he also heard the voters' opinion on the type of running mate they expected him to pick. “My team and I have been listening to voters as well as sharing my ideas. Nairobi is in dire need of change and together with my deputy governor, we will bring it once elected,” he added. Early this month, Deputy President and Kenya Kwanza’s presidential candidate William Ruto announced that UDA would field Senator Sakaja as its candidate for the Nairobi governor seat. This was after Bishop Margaret Wanjiru withdrew her bid in favour of Sakaja to run for the city's senatorial seat. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga got the Woman Representative ticket, locking out primaries for the three positions. They will now face Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance Coalition Nairobi lineup in the August polls. Jubilee’s Polycarp Igathe is the coalition’s gubernatorial flag bearer and will be deputised by former Kibwezi MP Philip Kaloki who is from the Kalonzo Musyoka-led Wiper Democratic Movement party. Orange Democratic Movement ( ODM) party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna was handed the senatorial ticket while incumbent Esther Passaris will fly the Woman Representative flag.