ODM candidate for Kisii gubernatorial race Simba Arati says dark forces worked overtime to thwart his bid to secure the party ticket. "I am happy they have been defeated," said Arati as he displayed his ticket to residents of Keroka, Keumbu and Kisii towns. He heads to Bobasi on Friday and Saturday for a similar course. He spoke as his main challenger Ezekiel Machogu (UDA) toured Bomachoge Chache fishing for votes. Machogu would be heading to Kitutu Chache North over the weekend. DAP K party's Sam Ongeri was in Nyaribari Chache to drum up support for his bid. KNC's Manson Oyongo was in Bonchari meeting supporters as he ups his push for the lucrative seat. In Keroka, jubilant supporters turned out in the streets to celebrate Arati's return. He has had a two months absence from the campaigns as he awaited the certificate from the party in Nairobi. He finally received it on Wednesday alongside other contestants. "Finally, we have defeated those evil spirits that had been laid on our path to impede our journey," said the Dagoreti North MP. " You have heard them (my enemies) say all manner of things regarding my education? Today I stand as testimony with this certificate to show you that I have what it takes to be there," he stated Arati was accompanied by his running mate Robert Monda and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka. Onyonka is vying for the senatorial seat on an ODM party ticket. Also vying in the ODM is Janet Ong'era who is seeking the Woman Rep seat. Ong'era would be defending her seat away from the Simba Arati's camp. She hails from the Bobasi constituency, the home area of Arati. Ong'era faces stiff competition from Donya Toto of the Wiper Party. Arati on his side is facing stiff competition from Kenya Kwanza's Ezekiel Machogu. The Nyaribari Masaba MP had this week trained his eyes on the Bomachoge Chache and Borabu vote giving a raft of promises as he steps up the campaigns. His camp consists of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi who is running for a Senatorial seat. Separately, Bonchari MP Parvel Oimeke has said he will go independent to defend his seat. He was among those who failed to secure the ODM ticket on Wednesday. John Okendi,  USA based trader, would now carry the party flag in the Bonchari poll. In Nyaribari Chache and Nyaribari Masaba, James Kenani and Daniel Manduku will carry the ODM flags for MP seats. In Bobasi, Kisii Deputy Speaker Davins Onuso clinched the ticket. His competitor Yobesh Oyaro cried foul and said he would announce the next move soon. In Bomachoge Chache, former MP Simon Ogari secured the ticket. Anthony Kibagendi got for Kitutu south, Geoffrey Asanyo for Kitutu North, Dennis Makori South Mugirangoand Obadiah Barongo, Bomachoge Borabu.