Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has urged ODM leader Raila Odinga to focus on his presidential bid and leave local aspirants to face the electorate on their own. He said Raila should not burden himself with aspirants seeking positions of governor and MPs. The ODM chief on Monday urged voters in his Nyanza backyard to vote six-piece for ODM aspirants, saying he does not want to become a weak president. Most of the ODM aspirants were handed direct tickets, a move that has left many voters angry after their preferred aspirants were overlooked in favour of party diehards. Outa said the move could boomerang on Raila's bid to become president as it may create voter apathy among Nyanza electorate. He said Raila was better off allowing the voters to pick their preferred candidates, through nominations, because the ODM leader is assured of voters in the region. The lawmaker said voters would be encouraged to come out in large numbers to cast their ballots if their favourite candidates were on the ballot. “I have been a staunch supporter of my party leader and even went through courts to support you, but I don’t want to repeat that. We need you as the president to save this country,” he said. Outa said they will next week announce the candidate who will face Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o on the ballot. He had teamed up with former county assembly speaker Onyango Oloo, former governor Jack Ranguma and former Kisumu Central MP and EAC Chief Administrative Secretary Ken Obura to unseat Nyong’o. After dropping their governor bid, they unanimously rallied behind Obura to battle for the ODM ticket with Nyong’o but on Tuesday they were not subjected to primaries. Outa, who blamed ODM National Elections Board chairperson Catherine Mumma for bungled nominations, said they will have a candidate to oust Nyong’o. “I want to appeal to Mumma that if this was her real intention to be the chairperson to be able to bring voter apathy in Luo Nyanza so that Raila will lose in the election it would be in a bad taste,” he said. Outa said there was a network problem which affected a number of polling stations, causing delays in voting. “Many of the polling stations could not vote until midday due to network issues, denying people who needed democracy,” he said. Outa asked the people of Kisumu to be peaceful, saying there are more activities ahead of them which require unity and peace. After the outcome of nominations, he said there was still a chance on August 9, to correct the mess.  (edited by Amol Awuor)