Four Human Rights defenders arrested while protesting over hunger in Kasarani on Saturday will spend another night in custody. This is after the accountant was ‘unavailable’ to receive cash bail. The court had released the four on Sh5, 000 cash bail. “We have been told that the available administrators were unable to issue a receipt as the accountant who has the password had left for the day,” said Kamau Ngugi, Defenders’Coalition Executive Director. Minoo Kyaa of Mukuru community justice centre, Nahashon Kamau, Clinton Ojiambo and Antony Kanyiri of the Kasarani Social Justice Centre were arrested by police from Mwiki Police station on Saturday before they were transferred to Kasarani Police Station. “The HRDs were arrested along ACK Road Mwiki while conducting a peaceful procession to highlight the rising cost of living and calling for the government to intervene. The police violently dispersed the team arresting the four who had been badly brutalized,” said Haki Africa Programme Officer Salima Macharia. “It was after intervention from various human rights organizations that the four were on Sunday released on Sh20,000 cash bail each,” she said. After their release, they were taken to the hospital as they had sustained multiple injuries during the arrest. The four HRDs appeared virtually at Makadara Law Courts represented by lawyers John Khaminwa and Lempaa Suyianka. They did not answer to the charges of unlawful assembly and resisting arrest as their lawyers argued that the charges were in fact illegal. Senior Counsel Khaminwa told the presiding magistrate Stephen Jalang’o that it is the right of citizens to protest when they are hungry as provided for in the Constitution. Article 43 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010, on the Social and Economic Rights, states that ‘every person has a right to be free from hunger and to have adequate food of acceptable quality. “The police bail set at Sh 20, 000 is too high and unreasonable considering the charges against the four HRDs are illegal,” he told the court. The magistrate reduced the cash bail to Sh5, 000 each. The ruling on whether or not Minoo, Nahashon, Clinton and Anthony should take plea will be made on April 14, 2022.