Alice Awiti became the second lady golfer to qualify for the Safaricom Golf Tour grand final after winning the sixth leg held on Saturday at the par 71 Eldoret Golf Club. The Nyanza Club golfer carded 49 points to become one of the best on the course and will be joining Nandi Bear’s Lydia Jebichii at the grand finale to be held at the Rea Vipingo Ridge. After scratching the opening hole and another scratch on the 16th, the handicapped 54 golfer went ahead to claim the title in a tournament that attracted 140 golfers drawn from eight clubs across the country. “I started badly with a scratch on the first tee, not just that but three of them. However, that did not stop me from playing well. I came strongly, maintained my consistency with the rest of the holes, doing very well with a number of pars and birdies,” she said. After missing to make the cut in Kisumu, Awiti says she made a personal initiative to debut at the Eldoret course and try her dream. “I came here with the purpose of playing good golf and I am excited to make the cut for the grand finale. Going to Vipingo is like a dream come true. I have been dreaming of it and that is why I have been going to clubs in the morning to train,” said Awiti. “My handicap is a bit high so when I play well I get more points than the rest of the golfers who are rated less. At the same time, the Eldoret course is way different from where I come from. This played to my advantage,” she said. Former Eldoret captain Anand Lakhani and Fatma Some were men and women's winners after carding 43 and 44 points respectively. Lakhani beat Ken Koge to second on 41 points while Some edged out former lady captain Catherine Gatua, also on 41 points. Nandi Bear’s Faith Chemutai won the longest drive on hole number one with Eldoret’s Peter Maritim claiming the men’s title. Michael Kotut was the nearest to the pin prize winner. With 21 points, Miriam Wanjiku was the first nine winner and Ben Siro claimed second nine on 23 points. Rispa Barasa claimed the staff prize as guest prize went to George Olango from Machakos Club. Caroline Koech was the best effort winner with 16 points.