AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda has defended the Kenyan Premier League giants against claims of harassing sports journalists in reaction to a video that has been doing rounds on social media showing a club official threatening a reporter. In the video, the official is heard telling a female reporter that she must pay entry fees to access a match between Leopards and Wazito at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on April 18. But in an exclusive interview on Thursday, Shikanda apologised for what termed as a misunderstanding, saying: “I've received reports that one of our officials had some personal differences with a journalist. I'd like to make it clear that you (sports journalists) are our friends and there is no way we can deny you access to our matches.” “We've been working closely with journalists to ensure our matches are highlighted as much as possible which will help us encourage the fans back into the stands. There is no way, then, that we can choose to soil the longstanding healthy relationship we've had with the media thus far.” Shikanda, however, reiterated the need for journalists to use the designated entry points, which will in return make it easy for the stewards to go about their duties. “We are encouraging journalists to attend our matches, only that they should agree to sit in the designated areas. Once again I wish to apologise to the media for the misunderstanding that occurred between some journalists and one of our officials but I can assure you that was an isolated case,” Shikanda said. Shikanda has also refuted accusations that their stewards roughed up match officials after their league encounter against Tusker at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on April 24. The 13-time Kenyan champions were left with a bitter taste in the mouth after a contentious last-gasp winner from Ugandan striker Deogratious Ojok saw them crush 2-1 to the brewers to halt their 11-match unbeaten run. Enraged stewards and officials reportedly accosted the referees at the full-time, insisting that Ojok had netted from an offside position. “The issue is being exaggerated. None of our stewards attacked the referee. In fact, contrary to widespread perception, it's our stewards who escorted the referees to safety when some rogue fans barged into the playing area and accosted the match officials,” Shikanda said. “However, it's also important for our referees to raise their standards of officiating to the expected levels in order to avert such incidents. You cannot be awarding fouls unnecessarily and then end up allowing our opponents to score from an offside position in the 96th minute. That's wrong.”