T4 Education has partnered with HP and Intel to reward African Teachers with the inaugural Africa Education Medal. The medal seeks to recognise the tireless work of those who are transforming education across the continent - to celebrate the stories of those who have lit the spark of change so others will be inspired to take up the torch. “Quality education will help African countries grow and prosper. And it will help Africa produce the public leaders of tomorrow who will go on to grapple with the continent’s greatest challenges from inequality, to climate change, food insecurity, and disease,'' Vikas Pota, founder and CEO of T4 Education said. The medal is open to individuals working to improve pre-kindergarten, K-12, vocational and university education as educators and school administrators, civil society leaders, public servants and government officials, political leaders as well as technologists and innovators. "I urge inspirational leaders from Kenya and all over our continent to come forward and apply for the Africa Education Medal so others can learn from their shining examples,"John Kimotho, senior deputy director at Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) said. In the decades leading up to the pandemic, Africa had been making great strides in boosting school enrolment. To protect and expand upon these vital gains in the wake of Covid-19,  public and private sectors need to work together to build a future where every child in Africa can achieve the quality education that is their birthright. Nominees must demonstrate their contribution in Significantly improving learning outcomes promoting girls’ education, promoting equity and broadening access to education, Advancing pedagogical or technological innovation, building and strengthening educator capacity, catalysing civic participation in education and Championing the rights of education stakeholders among others. The top 10 finalists for the Africa Education Medal will be announced in July and the winner will be announced in September.