Diabetic patients can now access refills for their insulin online. This will help address the challenge of cold-chain distribution of insulin, especially to patients based outside big cities. Diabetes occurs when the blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is too high. It is a disorder where the body does not produce insulin or does not use it efficiently. Insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar. In a partnership between a leading pharmaceutical Novo Nordisk and MYDAWA, the aim is to expand access to insulin by making it more broadly available geographically and at lower prices to people living with diabetes. MYDAWA is the first licensed e-pharmacy in Kenya. Due to the unique nature of the online distribution channel, people with diabetes will be able to refill their insulin prescriptions online at MYDAWA, at significantly lower prices. “We endeavour to expand and accelerate access to care for our patients all across the country and it is through partnerships like these that we are able to create a seamless reach ,” Novo Nordisk vice-president Vinay Ransinwal said. MYDAWA provides 24-hour delivery while ensuring the cost of the product is guaranteed to stay low. “As MYDAWA expands, opening fulfilment centres across the country, the costs and timelines associated with delivery will continue to fall ensuring better health outcomes for more and more Kenyans,” MYDAWA managing director Tony Wood said. Novo Nordisk Business Unit head (East and Southern Africa)  Francis Njau said the partnership will eliminate the aspect of cost and time for the patient. Njau said the arrangement affords the patient with a clear and direct means at the press of a button to access a safe, assuring and also quality guaranteed channel in compliance to all regulatory requirements. The World Health Organisation has in the recent past raised concern over the rapid rise in diabetes cases in low and middle-income countries, including Kenya. Kenya, like other developing countries, is experiencing the emerging diabetes epidemic. It is estimated that the prevalence of the disease in the country stands at 3.3 per cent and is projected to rise to 4.5 per cent by 2025 if the trend is not checked. Diabetes is a global pandemic affecting more than 425 million people globally and an estimated 5,000,000 people are living with diabetes in Kenya. This figure is estimated to rise to more than 3.5 million within a generation. According to data from the Health ministry, 40 per cent of Kenyans with diabetes are unaware of their condition.  (edited by Amol Awuor)