In Timboni village, Kinango subcounty, we found Abdul Chiti feeding the chickens and ducks. Chiti, a form one student at Waa Boys High School will join Form two in May. Unknown to many residents, Chiti is supposed to travel to the United States of America for one year in August. This is after he was named the best debater and accepted for the Kennedy Luger Youth and Exchange scholarship programme. Chiti, 15, won the lifetime chance after participating in the Intellectual Literacy and Leadership Programme conducted by the Organisation For Creative Leadership. The programme is funded by Fazil Chinoy Fellowship, which is managed by Samba Sports Youth Agenda. It has been rolled out in some schools in Kwale and has so far benefited more than 390 students. Beneficiaries are trained in talent management, empowerment and moral values. The learners are also exposed to leadership and public speaking forums to discuss sustainable development, leadership and equality. HOW HE WON Practice makes perfect, these wise words are what motivated Chiti,  who once feared large crowds and had no command of the english language. Born in an environment where majority of the children speak Digo, Duruma and Swahili was the greatest challenge in Chiti's journey. But since the ILLP's main role is to help students learn and improve their english Chiti worked hard for it. "I could barely speak two sentences and things were hectic but I learned," he said. At some point, Chiti wanted to give up as friends ridiculed him but he kept his hopes high. He said he sought frequent assistance from teachers and ILLP and within months he was able to communicate eloquently both verbally and in writing. "I used to read a lot of english storybooks and my friends would laugh but the motivation I got from my tutors was extraordinary," he said. Chiti believed that to be great he must get out of his comfort zone and go beyond what he had already mastered. From group discussions to class presentations and school hall debates, Chiti became a great orator. Recently, he won the Fazil Chinoy debate contest that was attended by more than six secondary schools in Kwale. The scholarship programme only wanted 20 students in Kenya and Chiti is lucky to be among them. The programme not only made Chiti a good speaker but also improved his grades in school. Chiti said when he joined high school, he would score a mean grade of C plus or C minus but since joining ILLP he is now scoring B plus and above with english being his best subject. "I still can't believe it, it's like a miracle my grades have tremendously improved and the subjects appear easy because I understand english better," he said. WHAT THE SCHOLARSHIP MEAN According to Chiti,  it is a dream come true because since childhood he has always wished to travel to the United States. Chiti wants to pursue medicine and become a veterinary doctor. He loves to be around animals and he spends most of his time taking care of them. He has dogs, chickens, sheep, goats and cows, who are his best friends. Chiti said he inherited the passion from his parents who are fond of keeping livestock. "My family is into a livestock keeping business and I would like to help them when I grow up," he said. The teenager said although travelling to the US is all that he ever wanted but leaving his family behind tears him apart. Chiti, however, said he has to cope with the reality, face his fears and take the rare opportunity. "It's painful but if I need to make a change I have to take advantage of the chance that God has given me," he said. MOTHER'S PRIDE Chiti's mother Saumu Luvuno said his son is joyful, disciplined, God-fearing and determined. She said he is talented and she was not surprised to hear that he won the scholarship. Luvuno said she has known his son as an artist and knew he has more gifts. "Chiti sings nicely, he can draw and does many incredible things," she said. She said his abilities have endeared him to many. Luvono said teachers and students are fond of him. She said she given Chiti her full support and blessings ahead of his maiden trip to the US. At first, she was reluctant and worried about what might happen to her son in a strange world but after being assured of his safety she consented. Luvuno said they have raised their son on good principles and believe that he will not let them down. "We trust him 100 per cent because he is a principled boy and he will definitely maintain that out there," she said. The mother said they will assist their son to realise his dreams. The co-founder of the OCL and ILLP chair Amani Nuri described Chiti as a bright student. He said his future is assured if his talents will be nurtured. "His abilities are unique, and I see him going far if he maintains the same pace," he said. THE SCHOLARSHIP Through the U S Department of State’s Kennedy-Lugar YES programme, high school students from countries with significant Muslim populations live and study for an academic year in the United States. Nuri said YES students serve as “youth ambassadors” of their home country, promoting mutual understanding by forming lasting relationships with their host families and communities. Participants live with a host family, attend an American high school, acquire leadership skills and engage in community activities to learn about US society and values. They participants also educate Americans about their home country and culture. Nuri said the applicants compete for YES scholarships through a rigorous, merit-based selection process. (Edited by Tabnacha O)