An ODM Parliamentary aspirant in Endebes Constituency has dispelled rumours of a Rift between Azimio One Kenya affiliate Parties in Trans Nzoia County over the nomination of a gubernatorial candidate. Moses Ainea Wanjala Masinde, who was cleared to vie against Endebes MP Robert Pukose, said the row between ODM Party and DAP K is linked to the endorsement of former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya by ODM leader Raila Odinga. This came even as some ODM Operatives moved swiftly to give Moses Khaoya a nomination certificate. Masinde told the Star during an interview in his Kitale Office on Friday that the clash had already been addressed by the Azimio One Kenya Presidential Candidate in his tour of Trans Nzoia County last week. "The endorsement of George Natembeya by Baba Raila Amolo Odinga clearly ended speculation on who was to fly the Azimio one Kenya gubernatorial Candidate for Trans Nzoia County," he said. He said ODM as a party fully supports the endorsement of Natembeya. He asked those pushing the businessman to go to the ballot to reciprocate the support of other affiliate parties in the coalition who are supporting the ODM leader's quest for the Presidency. "The only best thing for us in ODM to do is to reciprocate the support of other affiliate members supporting Baba for Presidency.  In this case, Natembeya remains our Candidate for Trans Nzoia," he said. He challenged Politicians to be weary of inflammatory statements during this electioneering period. He also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the squatter settlement issue before he exits Office upon the expiry of his term later after August. "The squatter issue has been a thorn in the flesh of more than 21,000 people in Trans Nzoia who were left landless after the British who used their Parents as workers left this country," he said. Masinde accused local leaders of not having tabled a motion in the National Assembly to have the landless settled. "Our MPS and a Senior Cabinet Secretary from this County never made any effort to have the squatters settled. They could not even approach the President for interventions. They stand no chance for re election," he said.