Today, I wake up an extremely happy man. Now, being a gentleman, I don’t kiss and tell, but… Screw it! That’s a pure bald-faced lie. To say that, you have to kiss and not tell several times. Like I can’t go around telling people I always open doors for women, when the only time it happened was back in Standard 3, when I threw open the class door and smacked Mrs Wangeci in the face. Not only didn’t she buy my chivalry excuse of acting like a gentleman, she put a whooping on my hinny good enough to last me the rest of the term. If you’ve been with me the last 99 times, you’re well aware that my experience with skirt-wearers is on par with my experience with angels — I know how both are supposed to work, but I cannot claim to have taken either to heaven, if you know what I mean. “Good morning, loverboy.” Sgt Sophia rolls over and bats her eyelashes. “That’s quite a way to welcome someone back from the hospital.” I make a smug face. “It’s the least I can do for almost killing you with flowers.” She turns pensive. “You know, as I lay on that hospital bed, I asked myself, is this how I want to exit the world? Is this the story I take to heaven? Is this—” In case you’re still lost, after two long years of courting the gorgeous Sgt Sophia, three months living in the same one-room shack and being tormented by her beauty on a daily basis, we spent most of last night making glorious passionate love. Guys, I went to heaven and back on the wings of a unicorn. She did things to me I never thought possible. Things like— “What are you doing?” “Sorry, Sophia. The world has to know. I will explode if I keep it bottled up.” “You interrupted as I was sharing something important with you. You know something, my mother was right. Every man from Adam to Makini is a hit-it and quit-it artiste.” “What are you talking about? I’m still here, aren’t I? Besides, I’m a police officer. I’m not going anywhere. Unless I go AWOL, I can’t just disappear without a transfer, and you know how long that process takes.” “I know how long something didn’t take last night.” Wrapped in a bedsheet, she walks into the kitchen for a glass of water. “That was very mean, Sophia.” I don’t have to shout for her to hear me. Our kitchen is only four feet from the bed. Another two feet to the right is the living room: one sofa, a coffee table and a woofer. “That’s literally the cruellest thing a woman can tell a man.” She comes back to the bed, kisses me on the forehead. Feels like a thousand butterflies flapping their wings against my skin. “I’m sorry. I was referring to foreplay. You don’t jump on a woman like unadandia mat.” “There are better ways to say it, you know.” “Like this?” She kneels across me on the bed, teases the sheet down her perfect body until she is completely— —I’m back. Sorry for the brief interruption. Where were we? “What the hell was that?” I throw up my arms. “What have I done now, Sophia?” “What have you done? What did I just tell you about—” “Kundandia mat, I know. I’m sorry, but I can’t help it.” She jumps off the bed, gets dressed. “This is your hundredth episode, right? Next time this happens will be on your two-hundredth episode.”