National Rally Championship leader Karan Patel leads a six-car Kenyan assault at the Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally scheduled for early next month. Karan will be going for his fourth win of the season in a Ford Fiesta-R2, navigated by Tauseef Khan. Among the six drivers, four are from the FIA Rally Star project including McRae Kimathi (Ford Fiesta Rally 3), Jeremy Wahome (Ford Fiesta-R3), Hamza Anwar (EvoX) and Maxine Wahome (Subaru Impreza). Also in the Pearl mix for Kenya is physically challenged driver Nikhil Sachania. Uganda will count towards the third round of the ARC after Rallye Bandama of Ivory Coast and Kenya’s Equator Rally. “We are planning to do the rest of the ARC this season and looking at the points difference from the leader Leroy Gomes (of Zambia), then we will need to score good points,”’ said Karan. Gomes leads the ARC series with 54 points against Karan’s 30. This will be Kimathi’s first race upon return from Croatia where he had an unsuccessful outing after retiring his M-Sport Poland Fiesta towards the last stage of the Zagreb-based race. He took part in the WRC3 and Junior WRC categories. “After Croatia, we now shift focus to the Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally. I am defending the ARC Junior Championship. It will be good to return to the bucket seat of my other Ford Fiesta which is based in Kenya,” said McRae. Hosts Uganda have the biggest chunk of drivers in Africa’s biggest crowd-puller led by Mohammed Ashraf, who has enlisted the services of Kenyan co-driver Shameer Yusuf in a Subaru. Uganda’s Amaanraj Rai will sit with Kisumu-based Gurdeep “Gugu” Panesar in a Skoda Fabia Rally2. Kenyan navigator Riyaz Ismail is reuniting with Ugandan Hassan Alwi in a Subaru Impreza. Others are Duncan Mubiru alias Kikankane, who will be partnering Musa Nsubuga in a Ford Fiesta Proto(spv), Jas Mangat — who is teaming up with Joseph Kamya in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evox — and Ronald Sebuguzi, who will sit with Anthony Mugambwa in another Mitsubishi Lancer Evox. Giancarlo Davite of Rwanda will also be gunning for ARC points in the company of Sylvia Vindevogel in an EvoX.