Tusker head coach Robert Matano believes his squad boasts of sufficient depth to fill the void left by centre back Eugene Asike who has landed a one-year deal with the Swedish side, Karlstad. The towering defender rose to the limelight after powering the Ruaraka-based side to the 2020/2021 Kenyan Premier League title in his critical role as captain. However, the brewers' gaffer seems to have solved the headache created by Asike's departure after managing to mould the duo of Charles Momanyi and Christopher Oruchum to stand firm at the heart of the defence. “Asike has been an important member of the squad and we'll most definitely miss his services in the defence and most importantly as team captain,” Matano said. “However, we have some good players who are capable of manning the defence as we battle in the last stages of the season,” he added. Matano reckons they still stand a chance to defend their title despite being 11 points adrift of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. Meanwhile, Asike has described his stay at Tusker as memorable. “I have had a good time at Tusker FC over the last six years. There have been ups and downs but looking back, the good memories overwhelm the bad memories,” Asike said. “I have had a good time at the club and developed as a player. Being given the captaincy also gave me more responsibilities and I want to say thank you to the entire Tusker family,” he added. Asike said 2016 was an outstanding year for him and his teammates after they scooped a double. He, however, says he'll always live to cherish the preceding season where he guided the team to the title as a captain and bagged the Defender of the Year award. “I have learnt to have a winning mentality in everything. This is a winning team and in every game, we have to win and don’t settle for less. I have gained that mentality not just on the field but also in my life outside football. I have to win in everything.” Asike says he hopes to replicate his splendid form at his new club and possibly help them to a top tier promotion. Asike said he had gleaned sufficient experience and expertise at Ruaraka after featuring in the Champions League and Confederation Cup. This, he believes, has helped him sharpen his claws for high profile football. “I just want to say thank you to the Tusker family for all the six years I have been here. They have supported me in good and bad times and always shown me love from the brand, the executive, technical bench, players and fans. I want to say thank you and I will always be the team’s number one fan wherever I will be.” 