The late former President Mwai Kibaki always taught his children to be appreciative and grateful for whatever came their way. In his tribute during the late president's state funeral on Friday, his son, Jimmy Kibaki said his father preached the gospel of always contentment in life. "As a family, we have been told whenever someone is kind or does something good to you, you should express your gratitude," Jimmy said. He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for the love and honour he showed to Kibaki since his retirement from office in 2013. Jimmy further recognized Uhuru's efforts in providing Kibaki with the best health care in the country when his health begun failing. He extended the same gratitude towards the Deputy President William Ruto for condoling and mourning with Kibaki's family. Jimmy also recognized the military's involvement in the funeral preparations. "The professionalism shown by the Armed Forces has enabled us to mourn Mzee and to honor him in a humbling way," he said. Jimmy hinted that in the future, he may try running for the top office. He said he was elated by the many salutations he received since Monday when he visited Parliament for to view his father's body. Jimmy added that the military in their professionalism helped them realize that even though Kibaki was president, he was first a father. "So, General Kibochi as a family, we say thank you." Jimmy further expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Kenyans for availing themselves to condole and mourn the demise of his father. "We met so many Kenyans when Mzee was lying-in-State and we listened to stories of how he was a father and grandfather to them. They related with him the way someone would relate with a parent or grandparent," he said. Jimmy revealed that it was comforting to know that Kenya was mourning the same loss as the family. The eldest son of the late president added that his father was a patriot and a true son of Kenya who loved Uhuru as a man would love his son. "He would listen to Uhuru's speech and turn to me then say,'good man' or 'good fellow' and when he said something like that, that was the ultimate praise," Jimmy said. He described his father as a man of excellence. "Mzee lived to excel. His journey from Othaya to office retirement was one to excel and that does not always mean succeeding but it means trying your best." Jimmy urged Kenyans to do their best as an honor to the fallen third Commander in Chief. "Let us dedicate ourselves to excelling," he said. Kibaki will be laid to rest on Saturday at his rural home in Othaya, Nyeri County. Some 15,000 mourners are expected to attend the final sendoff ceremony at the Othaya Approved School.