Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga has formed a seven-member panel to advise on who he will pick as his running mate. In a statement on Wednesday, Azimio Council secretary-general Junet Mohamed said the panel members have agreed to take up the roles and deliver their new mandate. The panel consist of the clergy and representatives of political parties. "The panel members are; Bishop Peter Njenga, Archbishop Zaccheus Okoth, Senator Enock Wambua, Michael Orwa, Noah Wekesa, Sheik Mohammed Khalifa and Beatrice Moe," Junet announced. "The panel shall reach its decision through consensus and shall elect its chairperson. The secretary of the panel shall be Ms Elizabeth Meyo." The panel has up to May 10, to submit the name of a person suitable for the seat of the running mate. On Tuesday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Chairman Wafula Chebukati announced that the deadline for submission of running mate names for presidential and governor aspirants had been extended to May 16. The deadline was initially set for Thursday, April 28. On April 21, Azimio-One Kenya Alliance's top Council sanctioned a process to identify Raila's running mate ahead of the August 9 polls. The alliance's top organ said it had tasked the advisory panel to recommend possible persons for the second-highest position. "We have mandated an advisory panel to recommend suitable candidates for running mate," Azimio Council Secretary-General Junet Mohammed said. On Tuesday, the National Rainbow Coalition (Narc) submitted the name of its party leader Charity Ngilu for vetting and consideration as Raila Odinga's running mate. The party submitted the letter to the Azimio la Umoja- One Kenya Coalition Advisory panel constituted to select Raila's running mate. "As a pioneering affiliate member of the said coalition, it gives us pleasure to submit the name of our Party leader Charity Ngilu for vetting, evaluation and consideration aforesaid," read the letter by Narc Secretary-general Fidelis Nguuli.