Hit Squad head coach Benjamin Musa has extolled his charges for brushing aside insurmountable odds to emerge second at the Africa Zone 3 Championship that concluded in Kinshasa Congo over the weekend. Kenya secured a total of 18 medals in the momentous swoop to emerge second behind the hosts who bagged 38 medals including 13 gold, 13 silver, and 12 bronze medals. David Karanja (flyweight), Samuel Njau (featherweight), and Shaffi Bakari Hassan (bantamweight) were the toasts of the tournament after bagging gold in the men's category. Female pugilists Elizabeth Andiego (light heavy), Everlyne Akinyi (welterweight), and Teresia Wanjiru (light-welterweight) also punched furiously on the bag on their way to the winner's podium. “We managed to get 18 medals in total, six gold, 5 silver, and seven bronze. That's a marked improvement from last year's edition that also took place here in Kinshasa where we won 13 medals,” Musa said. “We performed well if we take into account the challenges we faced here where competition and technical rules were blatantly disregarded.” Musa reckons they are inching closer to sharpening their claws well enough for the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games slated for July. “We are determined to perform even better in the forthcoming international assignments, including the World Women's Championship, the Commonwealth Games, and the Africa Championship,” Musa said. “We have identified some aspects of the game that we need to work on when we resume training in a few days." Concerning blatant disregard for competition rules and procedures, Musa said they had already lodged a formal complaint with the world boxing governing body, AIBA. “We have already written a report detailing our concerns,” Musa said. On his part, assistant coach Dave Munuhe expressed satisfaction with the team's performance. “We may have preferred to lay claim to all the medals in the competition but what we achieved was immense,” Munuhe said. “It's a big step forward if we compare the outcome with what we achieved last year. This is not only a big plus for the team but also for the Boxing Federation of Kenya. Kenyan officials went berserk when Christine Ongare (featherweight) was forced to accept a silver medal after organisers declared a final match unnecessary given the category was played on a round-robin basis. Stacy Ayoma (lightweight), Lorna Kusa (light-middleweight) and Elizabeth Akinyi (middleweight) and Victor Odhiambo also settled for silver. The 2020 gold medallist Elly Ajowi was unfortunate this year after securing bronze alongside experienced Hit Squad captain Nick Okoth. Others who bagged bronze included Ann Wanjiru (flyweight), Alice Waiyego (bantamweight), Amina Martha (featherweight), Boniface Mugunde (light-middleweight), and Francis Denga (light-heavyweight). During the 2022 edition, Cameroon were third with Mauritius and Congo finishing fourth and fifth respectively. Equatorial Guinea trailed with one bronze medal.