If there should be any consensus on the ODM party ticket for the Kisumu governors position, then incumbent Anyang’ Nyong’o should step down, aspirant Ken Obura has said. He said if the party chooses to go the opinion polls route, then he should be the candidate. Obura said he learnt that the party will not carry out nomination for the governor’s position on Tuesday from reports in the media, but was yet to get any communication from the party. “I want to make this clear, because I know they are peddling a lot of rumours out there that there is consensus between Obura and Nyong’o, the only consensus between us, if there will be any, is that Nyong’o steps down for me,” he said. Obura said they are still waiting to get confirmation on whether it is him or Nyong'o who will be the party's flagbearer. “Going by the route the party had chosen—the scientific way through opinion poll—obviously in that case I am the candidate.” Addressing a press conference in Kisumu accompanied by former Governor Jack Ranguma and former Kisumu speaker Onyango Oloo, Obura called on his supporters to maintain peace during Easter as they wait to see what unfolds. He however stressed that even as they fight for the party ticket, everyone should not lose focus on the main agenda which is the presidency of Raila Odinga which was critical to all. “Let's all remain focused on the bigger picture, we have fought so hard in this country and as a community we have being looking forward for this opportunity and at this point we are 99 per cent sure of the presidency.” Obura assured his supporters that in the unlikely event that Nyong’o is picked over him, Nyong'o will still be defeated in the August 9 poll. Oloo said they are hopeful that the party will give Obura the certificate. In the event that their candidate does not get the certificate, he assured supporters that the script remains the same, there will be a candidate to contest with Nyong'o. "And even in this circumstances, we will still ask our supporters and people of Kisumu to come out that day and vote for Raila as the President." Ranguma echoed similar sentiments saying Kiusmu residents will vote in a person they agree with come August 9 elections for the governor position.   -Edited by SKanyara