Exiled lawyer Miguna Miguna has dismissed the directive by  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i requiring him to reapply for Kenyan citizenship in order to be allowed entry into Kenya. In response to media reports on Matiang'i's take on his citizenship saga, Miguna reminded the CS of several court orders issued in his favour. “More than 15 valid court orders have directed them to allow me entry in Kenya. I'll not surrender,” Miguna noted. The lawyer added that the High Court vindicated him on the matter of losing citizenship saying the State should simply heed the directive requiring them to allow him to enter Kenya. "Stop relitigating Justice Chacha Mwita's order in the media. On Dec. 14, 2018, the High Court held that Miguna Miguna never lost his Kenyan citizenship by birth. The Court of Appeal dismissed your appeal. Obey court orders." He added: "No matter how long it takes, I will make sure that you obey all court orders and you are brought to account for your contempt of court! Make no mistake about it: power is fleeting. In less than 4 months, you will face the full force of the law. That's a guarantee". This comes a day after Matiangi did a presser with the local media, explaining what he needs to do in order to be allowed back to the country. Matiangi addressed accusations that his ministry disregarded numerous court orders instructing him to allow Miguna into the country. He noted that he is bound by the law when carrying out his duties. “Stop relitigating Justice Chacha Mwita's ORDER in the media. The Court of Appeal dismissed your appeal. Obey Court Orders,” he tweeted. Numerous court orders have been issued in his favour but the State has maintained that Miguna lost his citizenship and must therefore apply afresh. “No matter how long it takes, I will make sure that you obey all court orders and you are brought to account for your contempt of court,” Miguna, who is both a Kenyan and Canadian, was deported in February 2018 after taking part in the swearing-in of ODM leader Raila Odinga as the 'People's President' at Uhuru Park on January 30, 2018. Several attempts by the Lawyer to gain access to the country have been futile as the government insists that he must apply for Kenyan citizenship afresh, something Miguna has refused. The Lawyer has insisted that he cannot apply to be a Kenyan citizen yet he never stopped being one. Miguna was born and bred in Kenya before he went to Canada for studies. He has stayed there for decades working as a lawyer. His immediate family also resides in Canada The Lawyer promised to fight for his rights saying the Kenyan government can block him from coming to Kenya but he will never cave in to their "Illegal demands"