Olympic marathon champion Peres Jepchirchir says she would have loved to represent Kenya at the World Championship in Oregon were it not for her tight schedule this year. Athletics Kenya (AK)  on Thursday named world champion Ruth Chepngetich, Amsterdam Marathon champion Angela Tanui, Paris Marathon champion Judith Jeptum and Maurine Chepkemoi to fly the country's flag in the women's road race at the July event. "It is not an issue. I believe the team named will do us proud. For me, it would have been impossible to compete in Oregon because of the crammed schedule I have for this year. Boston Marathon is this month and thereafter there will be others before Oregon. There would be minimal time for recovery," the World Half Marathon champion said. The 2020 Prague Half Marathon champion further expects Kenyans to continue ruling road races around the world, pointing to the depth of talent that has been exhibited since the beginning of this year. In particular, she has been impressed by one of her closest rivals — world record holder Brigid Kosgei. "I watched what she did in Tokyo Marathon (clocking the fastest time on Japanese soil of 2:16:02) and was quite impressed. I admire her and look up to her. She is somebody I try to emulate," Jepchirchir said. Despite her showering praises on her fellow countryman, there is no denying the petite runner is on the road to rooting herself as one of the world's best female marathoners. In 2017, she broke the world half-marathon record at Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon in Abu Dhabi, timing 65:06 in first place. However, she cites the Tokyo Olympics as her best race in recent memory. "It was the best because I never expected to win it yet it went so well. I thank God for the privilege of competing and winning gold because it was not an easy race," the 2019 Portugal Half Marathon champion said. She added: "It is all down to hard work and trust in God. I had my daughter  in October and I can tell you it is hard work coming back to action. You gain a lot of weight and have to struggle to shed it all. There is also the baby who needs your attention so it's a tough balancing act." Jepchirchir is one of the favourites for this Sunday's Boston Marathon and is hopeful of another podium finish after her win at the New York Marathon in November last year. "So far, so good as far as training is concerned. I have prepared well and want to be at the podium in Boston although it is naturally a tough course. Furthermore, the other competitors are also quite tough, such as Joycelline (Jepkosgei) and the Ethiopians," the 2020 Valencia Marathon champion said. She added: "The Americans are also coming up strongly in the road races. In the past, they used to concentrate on sprints, field events, and racewalking but they are now producing talents in the marathon. Most of them are nowadays training abroad in high altitude areas."