The Kenya Ports Authority has commenced the resettlement plan for 1,648 families that will be affected by the multi-billion shilling Dongo Kundu Mombasa Special Economic Zone project. The affected persons will be resettled on a 357-acre land, which is part of the 3,000 acres owned by KPA in the Mtongwe area. On Tuesday, KPA met with the elected leaders from the Likoni constituency and unanimously supported the resettlement action plan for residents. KPA has scheduled a series of meetings with stakeholders from Tuesday  next week to discuss the compensation framework. The consultative meetings are being held at ACK Likoni. Those to be compensated are from Dongo Kundu, Mwangala, Mrongondoni, Kaya Mtongwe, Mbuta and Siji villages in Likoni. The resettlement plan also has a compensation component for potential displacement impact on structures totalling 2,585. They include; residential, commercial, non-residential, agricultural, religious, institutional, educational, cultural, security buildings and water-related structures. The Mombasa special economic zone will have common user facilities, a free port, free trade zone, an industrial park, a logistics zone and a public utility area with supporting road networks. The Sh39.1 billion project is expected to create over 10,000 employment opportunities for residents once completed. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to launch the project before leaving office in August. The project affected persons were identified in a Strategic Environmental Assessment of 2014, according to KPA management. KPA developed the compensation framework with the support of the Japan International Cooperation Agency following the recommendation of the National Land Commission, that the government identifies a solution to the land issues. The compensation policy was submitted to and approved by the Cabinet. On Tuesday, KPA’s head of projects Eng Kennedy Nyaga assured  stakeholders of their commitment to ensuring successful implementation of the project within the shortest time possible. “The public forums we are holding are also to seek guidance and support of the local leadership towards the implementation of the compensation framework for Mombasa Special Economic Zone,” he said. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said she was delighted because the resettlement plan has demonstrated a lasting solution for compensation of all the affected persons. “Resettlement is the main issue for the economic zone programme to begin and I am very happy that we have a solution on this matter. I really thank the government for being humane,” Mboko said. She also expressed optimism about the mega project, saying it would create thousands of job opportunities for youths. “I want to appreciate that this process has been consultative from the very beginning and I can confidently say that all stakeholders have been involved in public participation as per the requirements of the Constitution of Kenya 2010,” she said. Mombasa county commissioner John Otieno said resettlement is usually a daunting task but the action plan formulated by KPA will help resolve the matter amicably. “This is a win-win situation. The way this resettlement action plan has been done shows that you are ready to proceed with the project and as the government, we will support to ensure success of the project,”  Otieno said. He described the Dongo Kundu Mombasa special economic zone as one of the government’s flagship projects and critical in terms of creating employment opportunities. Otieno urged KPA and other implementing agencies to move with speed for the project to be launched before August this year. “Leaders need to work together and speak with one voice for the project to be implemented in time. Due process, involvement of all stakeholders, and meeting timelines is critical in project implementation because when timelines are not met then the project cost also goes high,” he said. The county commissioner called for proper and thorough validation of lists for those  who would be compensated to ensure those deserving are not left out. He appealed to all leaders to embrace the project terming it a game-changer for the region. (Edited by Tabnacha O)