Pamoja African Alliance members on Monday held demonstrations in Malindi protesting against alleged injustice in nominations. Led by Malindi parliamentary aspirant Kenneth Karisa and three MCA hopefuls, they claimed the party did not follow due process in the nomination. They carried placards marked, ‘No Karisa no PAA in Malindi.' They converged at the Market Village hall before marching to PAA subcounty offices in Alaskan demanding justice. They gave PAA leader Amason Kingi 24 hours to intervene or they will hold another meeting and chart the way forward for their supporters. Karisa said what happened last week was unfair because it was wrong for the board to give a verdict without explanation. He said they are opposed to the decision of the board to issue the MP ticket to Willy Mtengo, a former Malindi MP. “We needed to know what criteria was used for one to be chosen. There were opinion polls that were done but we never received the results. So how did they resolve to approve one aspirant?” Karisa asked. Karisa said PAA's elections board announced they had issued the ticket to one aspirant and the rest should cooperate with him. He said it is wrong if the board was compromised because the party is still young. “After 24 hours we will issue another statement if the party will not  change the decision or call us to explain the criteria used. Malindi people are being denied their rights," Karisa said. Allan Karisa, who is aspiring for Malindi Town ward rep, said he was bitter with PAA elections board and the top officials for making crucial decisions against the majority. “We are tired of past injustices,  we want justice to prevail for the people to get their rightful leaders,” he said. He told his supporters to remain calm as they seek answers from the party. PAA spokesperson Lucas Maitha said they had taken the complaints into account and were working to resolve them. "The matter is being handled by the national elections board. Such hitches were expected but we gave powers to the election board to deal with such cases so that no one is left behind," Maitha said. Angela Mwaka, an aspirant from Kakuyuni ward, asked Kingi to intervene and give direction or face a massive fallout. “Why wait for us to join the party, then sell the ticket and dismiss us at the last minute?” she asked. Abbas Mohamed, a PAA member, said they joined the party because they thought nominations would be free and fair. PAA youth president Samir Nyundo  has summoned all aggrieved aspirants in Kilifi to resolve the nomination issues. Nyundo said the party has stopped all nominations with immediate effect to address the issues raised. (Edited by Tabnacha O)