A year ago Jack Anyango and three other men went missing in Kitengela. The bodies of the other three—Elijah Obuong, 35, Benjamin Imbayi, 30, Brian Oduor, 36—were recovered. Anyango's is yet to be found. His mother Olga Ochieng’ says she dreams about him and hopes he will turn up. “Sometimes I dream that he has come home and we are all happy. Another time I dream that we found his skeleton in a thicket somewhere,” the 65-year-old says. Sometimes Ochieng imagines Anyango could be mentally ill, wandering in some faraway place and eating out of dustbins. But the family will not give up hope. They refuse to bury a banana stem or some other item to symbolise Anyango's death. They keep their fingers crossed, hoping that he will turn up one day. My son may just walk home to his young family one day and relieve us all of this emotional turmoil, Ochieng' says. "I have been praying and imagining many scenarios. Maybe he was arrested and detained and the state does not want to talk about it," she says. "I often isolate myself when [I feel] overwhelmed and cry." She spoke to the Star on Monday. Anyango was 37 when he went missing alongside Obuong, Imbayi and  Oduor. The bodies of Obuong and Imbayi were found in mortuaries in Thika and Murang’a. On the day they went missing in Kitengela, the four had eaten a lunch of nyama choma and drinks. Their white Toyota Mark X was found abandoned at a parking lot about 500 metres from the club the following day. Ochieng says she is always on edge and has suffered severe depression. “I wish I could get news about his whereabouts,” she says. The mother says she is ready for any report about her son, whether he is dead or alive. Anyango’s elder brother Calvin Ochieng’ has spent a lot of time looking for him. Whenever he hears a body has been found, he dashes to check it. When news that 11 bodies had been retrieved from River Tana in September last year got out, he went and provided samples for DNA matching. Nothing came of it, he wasn't even shown the test results. When the news broke about bodies found in River Yala, Siaya, Calvin headed there and checked all the bodies kept at the Yala mortuary. "We have spent a lot of money in these processes. It is an endless ordeal," Calvin said. None of his contacts reach out to him anymore. Police officers no longer tip him off whenever a body is recovered. "I no longer hear from them. Whenever I call them, they tell me that nothing has come up and that we should just be patient," he says. The family was initially promised by police IG Hillary Mutyambai that they would be told what happened with 21 days of the disappearance. They have not heard from the government since. "Please ask the IG to keep his promise. The 21 days he promised elapsed and we have not heard anything from them. It very sad," Calvin said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya