Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said the party will present a candidate for nomination as the Nairobi gubernatorial aspirant under the Azimio One-Kenya ticket. Kalonzo’s latest remarks comes hot on the heels of his recent sentiments that former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is free to vie for any political seat. Sonko ditched the Jubilee party and joined the Wiper party on March 25. In a tweet on Thursday, Kalonzo said the Wiper Party would push for the Azimio ticket to be handed to its member for the Nairobi governor seat during the ongoing negotiations in the giant outfit. “As Wiper Party, we shall present a party candidate for the negotiations in the Nairobi Gubernatorial elections under Azimio la Umoja One Kenya,” Kalonzo said. Wiper has already handed Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr direct nomination for the Makueni gubernatorial race leaving Sonko as the most plausible candidate for the Nairobi contest. Kalonzo's remarks could possibly be suggesting that the Wiper Democratic Movement could be pushing for the Azimio ticket for Sonko to give the Nairobi seat governor's seat another stab after his impeachment in December 2020. Sonko moved to the Supreme Court last month to challenge his ouster. On April 7, Kalonzo came to Sonko’s defence saying he is innocent until proven guilty and deserves a ticket to vie for any seat if he wants to. Sonko has maintained that he is yet to exhaust all avenues of appeal after the Appellate Court upheld a High court decision that he was legally impeached. “The law is clear on all avenues of appeal. I cannot leave the fight at the Court of Appeal. It is a fight to the end,” Sonko said. His drive to revive his political career, however, relies on the outcome of the appeal at the apex court. Should the Supreme Court sustain the lower courts’ decision that he was legally impeached, then he cannot hold or vie for a public position. ODM leader and Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has moved to quell internal frictions within the formation by allowing negotiations by member parties on how to fill some political slots. Raila's move is a response to an internal storm by party leaders claiming they are marginalised. Azimio contains at least 23 parties and some smaller ones feel excluded. On Wednesday, eight parties within the formation tabled radical demands to Azimio, claiming they were being sidelined and threatened to jump ship. Raila on Thursday chaired a meeting of Azimio partner parties and representatives to foster unity. He announced that regions would not be zoned for any political party within the coalition. Kalonzo has declared that he will be Raila's deputy. The Wiper leader could likely be banking on the ongoing consultations within Azimo to ensure his party is handed the ticket for the Nairobi gubernatorial race.