A group of youth leaders from the Western region allied to Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance has vowed to ensure ODM leader Raila Odinga wins a majority of votes in the August 9, polls. Raila who has enjoyed the support of the Western Region in the last three consecutive elections is facing an uphill task of consolidating the support base following the defection of his key allies to Deputy President William Ruto's camp. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula are now leading a group of Western Kenya leaders in drumming up the support for Ruto's presidency. Despite their spirited campaigns, the Azimio youth faction in Western Kenya is determined to ensure Raila's support base remains intact. The group led by Abukaka Abukaka, self-christened leader, while addressing the media on Friday in Webuye noted that they are set to run a campaign like no other to ensure Raila bags a majority of Western's votes. "We are prepared to roll our sleeves and campaign for Raila's presidency. In this election, Western Kenya will deliver the highest votes ever. We are certain 85 per cent of the Luhya nation people will vote for Raila. We are telling them to prepare for a massive defeat. Ruto has no escape route," Abukaka said. He added that they have laid an elaborate plan that will ensure the Azimio faction also wins a majority of elective seats in the August polls. Abukaka noted that Mudavadi and Wetang'ula's support for Ruto is inconsequential saying the region is no longer led by them. He divulged that Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Defence CS Eugene Wamalawa and Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli are the only recognized leaders from the region. "We're no longer politically led by ANC and Ford Kenya leaders. We believe it is only Raila who can deliver development to Western Kenya votes. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula cannot tell us Raila is unfit yet both of them have supported him for the top seat twice. Is that not political hypocrisy?" Abukaka posed. Conrad Keya who also spoke at the press conference backed Abukaka's remarks saying they'll ensure Kenya Kwanza Alliance get what he termed as a deserving loss in Western Kenya. "This time we mean business. We are going to vote for leaders who have a track record of development. Oparanya has delivered as a governor and Wamalawa has done well as a CS. We can't be misled by other people. Those are leaders we want," he said. The group said they will embark on a series of sensitization meetings across Western Kenya to ensure the youthful nation in Western Kenya back Azimio. Their remarks come at a time when Ruto has pitched tents in Western Kenya for a four-day campaign tour. The tour was, however, halted following the death of Kenya's third President Mwai Kibaki. Ruto has now suspended his campaigns for three days in honour of Kibaki. Ruto began his Western Tour on Thursday flanked by Mudavadi and Wetang'ula who are being perceived to be gateways to Western Kenya votes. The DP is banking on the two to bring home Western Kenya votes even as Raila puts his trust in Oparanya to deliver the same to Azimio.