The outgoing crop of MPs are expected to receive millions of shilling after Treasury allocated Sh6.6 billion to cater for their exit perks. The money will go towards paying for the send-off perks of the 416 members of the National Assembly and senators of the 12th Parliament. The service gratuity amounts to nearly 80 per cent of an MP’s annual basic pay, which has grown to Sh11.6 million. After Parliament amended the Parliamentary Pensions Act, there are two ways through which their send off perks are grouped. MPs who choose to make monthly pension contributions do not get the gratuity that is paid in lump sum. Under gratuity scheme, MPs are entitled to an equivalent of 31 per cent of their basic pay for the 60-month term. Lawmakers who opt to contribute for pension will get the gratuity but remain in line for a lifelong monthly payout of at least Sh125,000. This applies only if they exit after serving for at least two terms. The payments are yet another reflection of the growing taxpayer burden of keeping top public servants comfortable in retirement. The SRC in March 2013 gazetted a remuneration package for MPs that included a gratuity benefit calculated at the rate of 31 per cent of annual basic pay, to be paid at the end of term. The pay schedule also capped allowances, infuriating the legislators who managed to have the SRC issue a new pay structure, which left their allowances open-ended. Parliament was allocated Sh50.2 billion in the budget estimates presented by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani on Thursday. A chunk of the monies would go to exit perks for members of Parliament and grants for those who will join the assembly after the August 9 general election. It is estimated that in the current budget, the President and MPs are likely to get Sh918 million send-off perks, inclusive of gratuity payments to the DP and two Parliament speakers. Of the additional Sh11.7 billion allocation, Sh4.2 billion would be for car grants for incoming lawmakers. A further Sh373 million for the post-retirement medical scheme and Sh500 million to enhance the mortgage fund. The Judiciary, on the other hand, has been provided with Sh18.9 billion. This follows the quest by the courts' leadership for more judges to handle poll petitions. Yatani said the allocations would go a long way “to enhance the oversight and legislative role of Parliament and access to justice.” Judiciary also got a boost after the CS declared that the Judiciary Fund would be put into effect as soon as possible. Deputy President William Ruto had raised concerns that it was taking inordinately long to be implemented. The fund is established by Article 173 of the Constitution, providing that it will be administered by the Chief Registrar in meeting the administrative expenses of the Judiciary. “In this respect, the necessary procedures for effecting of the Fund have been put in place,” Yatani said. He said this would be possible with the enactment of the Judiciary Fund Act and the attendant regulations. Yatani further said that the bank accounts for the fund have been opened at the Central Bank of Kenya. He said an appropriate budget for Judiciary would be provided. Tied to the justice system are allocations to the institutions that have regular working ties with the judiciary. Yatani in this regard proposed Sh3.6 billion for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and Sh3.4 billion to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Also, Sh8.4 billion for the DCI and Sh6.4 billion to the office of the auditor general. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)