Nairobi Gubernatorial aspirant Ann Kagure has received a major boost as former Governor Mike Sonko joins her in city campaigns. On Sunday, the former county boss accompanied Kagure to Pipeline Church and later joined Kagure on the campaign trail, as she made stops within the city. Kagure who is among four Jubilee Nairobi gubernatorial aspirants was campaigning after joining President Uhuru Kenyatta at the AIC Pipeline Church. She later thanked Sonko for endorsing her, stating that their alliance will change the lives of Nairobi residents. “Thank you Governor Mike Sonko for the endorsement and support towards my candidature. Our people- centered alliance will accommodate all your supporters and together we’ll change lives of all Nairobi residents for the better.. Asante sana," Kagure added. In February, the Sonko Rescue Team in a statement endorsed Kagure for the City County boss seat, hinting that its founder had blessed the businesswoman. “Having taken into account all factors and parameters, we have come to the conclusion that only Agnes Kagure has the qualities that can help Nairobians meet the challenges of the times. She has established herself as the leader who is available when needed” SRT said in a statement. “A leader who is untainted by corruption. A leader who knows how to get things done. She has a clear vision of where to take Nairobi and her mission is to work with all stakeholders to get us there" “As the Sonko Rescue Team, we have activated all our networks in the county and the country and we intend to play an active role in making sure Kagure is elected Nairobi Governor so that we can redeem our city and our county,” it read further. Sonko launched Sonko Rescue Team back in 2015  as a privately-funded “rapid response” to the problems of everyday residents. This is not the first time the former Nairobi governor has shown confidence in Kagure. In 2018, Kagure was among the four women he had considered to deputise him  to replace Polycarp Igathe who had resigned as Nairobi’s deputy governor. The others included; Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, Karen Nyamu and Jane Weru. In January this year,  Kagure launched her candidature for the Nairobi  governor seat ahead of the August 9, General Elections. The tycoon has pledged to deliver services for Nairobians and make the city a better place. She will face sitting Governor Ann Kananu and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) Richard Ngatia who are also after the Jubilee party ticket in nominations. Sonko's endorsement comes a few days after he joined the Kalonzo Musyoka led Wiper party and announced that he will be making a comeback to city politics. He however, did not reveal which position he would be gunning for. Edited by B. Oruta