Kirinyaga officials who manned the UDA primaries on Monday protested their delayed payments at Kerugoya stadium. The presiding officers and clerks accused the party of not adhering to its terms despite the officials having done their work satisfactorily. They say the short-term contract would have each presiding officer take home Sh20,000 and clerks Sh9,000 at the end of the exercise. More than 200 officials were contracted on a temporary basis by the party to oversee the exercise across the county. The officials said the party had by Sunday evening made a very meager amount to some of them, while others are yet to receive a dime. They questioned the manner in which the dues are discriminately being settled, sensing foul play by some party officials who supervised them. Timothy Wachira, a presiding officer at a station in Kirinyaga Central, said it was unfortunate the party was defying their agreement of settling the pay on time. “Each presiding officer was to earn Sh4,000 per day, having worked for five days. A clerk was to earn Sh3,000 per day for three days," he said. Wachira said they are dismayed by the reluctance displayed by the party in making the full settlement. "We urge the national leadership to come clean on what is happening. What formulae has been applied in paying some while others have not received even a penny?" he said. Wachira said they launched their complaints with one of the senior party county officials who in return took a list of their names and pledged to communicate to them. Martin Mwai another presiding officer said the party leadership should own up the mistake and do the needful promptly. He said some of them, who are mostly youths, are in a very bad financial state as they used up all their savings to show up at their work stations. “We sacrificed time, energy and resources, with the hope of remuneration. We carried out our duties dutifully and up to the party’s expectations. We therefore expect the party to honour their end,” Mwai said. David Migwi a clerk said party leader William Ruto should intervene and see to it that they are paid. He said the party leadership should live up to its ideals of empowering ordinary Kenyans by rightfully paying what they have worked for. “They should actualise what they preach to wananchi. Let them learn to make promises and keep their word,” Migwi said. The county party chairman Maina Kihia in response said they were not mandated by the party to pay the officials as they were not responsible in recruiting them. He said the party’s national election board contracted them for the service and as such are the only responsible department in disbursing their pay. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)