Campaigns for the South Imenti MP seat have intensified following MP Kathuri Murungi's decision to go for senator. Former chief of staff in Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration Gideon Kimathi and Jubilee candidate Shadrack Mwiti have emerged as the forerunners. Mwiti has been endorsed by three parties in a span of three months as Kimathi struggles to woo Kathuri’s supporters. He has been endorsed by Agriculture CS Peter Munya's PNU delegates, Jubilee and ODM delegates. PNU entered into a pre-election coalition agreement with Jubilee in the Azimio La Umoja coalition whose presidential flag bearer is ODM leader Raila Odinga. On March 17, a section of PNU delegates gathered at JPark, Nkubu, in South Imenti and pledged to back President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee candidate for South Imenti. The delegates included nominated MCA Gacheri Muthuri, 2017 PNU aspirant Janaro Gatangugi and alleged chairman Gatobu Kiremu. Gatangugi who was third in the 2017 general election said he had withdrawn from 2022 race in favor of Mwiti after an agreement with Munya and Mwiti. Mwiti, who vowed to campaign for Raila said Kathuri supporters should rally behind his candidature. "Let's unite for growth and developments of this constituency. We must forget the past," he said. Mwiti said he is the happiest person to get such a boost adding that he will remain in touch with the party and ensure he caters for their interests. However, another PNU faction on Wednesday traded barbs over Mwiti's endorsement. The team was led by Muthuri Mwega and Nkuene former councilor Nick Mburugu and the other by Abuthuguchi Central MCA Ayub Bundi, the Eastern region PNU coordinator. Mwega said he is the de-facto chairman of the party in South Imenti and was not consulted before the endorsement. Bundi however said Mwega is just a broker. He said they (PNU) rejected Mwega’s theatrics when he wanted to pay for aspirant’s registration fee last week in vain thus the bitterness. Kiremi also called him an ouster and broker of the highest bidder. The teams however pleaded with Uhuru to endorse Munya to deputise Raila. Jubilee deputy party leader Kinoti Gatobu said the party is enhancing grassroots mobilisation to popularise the party. "I am impressed by South Imenti delegates for endorsing our candidate. This is a win-win situation. "This is not the first election to have coalition parties and we are confident we will clinch the seat and others in the county," Gatobu said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)