The Kisumu county government has waived approvals on repainting of premises to encourage owners to paint them ahead of the Africities Summit. The conference is slated for May 17-21.  Between 5,000 to 8,000 guests  are expected to attend. City manager Abala Wanga in a public notice dated April 14, 2022 said approvals have been fully waived to May 22. Wanga said they have embarked on an initiative to improve the aesthetic of buildings within the Central Business District and its environs. The initiative was officially launched on Thursday last week by Governor Anyang Nyong’o, who directed building owners to paint and repaint with lake blue colours and stripes of white. He said the buildings should be repainted within 14 days in readiness for the 9th Africities Summit to be held at Jomo Kenyatta International stadium in Mamboleo. "Just like a family spruces up the homestead ahead of an important visit, we have taken the initiative to change the face of the city, especially the CBD," Nyong'o said. "We have formally asked everyone owning a house in the CBD and its environs to paint them with lake blue colours and stripes of white." Nyong'o said this will not only improve the city’s aesthetics but will bring uniformity. He said cities that have done this are "spectacularly beautiful." To enhance uniformity, he said, the county is also working on ensuring that road kerbs are repainted. "We have a tight deadline and I am appealing to building owners to cooperate," he said. The governor said his administration has initiated talks with paint suppliers to provide a discount to residents for paint and painting equipment. "I would like to thank Crown Paints for accepting to partner with us in this exercise. I hope more companies will come on board. Kisumu must shine," Nyong'o said. The governor said past efforts to beautify the city have paid off. The streets are now neat and there is organised flow of traffic. "I want to thank everyone, including the business community and all the residents for supporting our transformative journey," Nyong'o said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)