President Uhuru Kenyatta has made changes in KETRACO's board leadership and replaced Joe Mutambu with Brigadier David Ngaira. The former Mwingi Central MP has been transferred to Tana and Athi River Development Authority (TARDA) to serve in the same capacity. Ngaira's tenure will run for three years effective April 14, 2022. Five other appointments of independent directors were made by Energy Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma. KETRACO is an independent Systems Operator (ISO), appointed by the Presidential task force to lower power tariffs. Mutambu served KETRACO for about one year when he oversaw the Company’s most critical operations and roles aimed at fulfilling the attainment of the Company’s core mandate. Among the critical projects he oversaw include the completion of the Olkaria-Lessos-Kisumu trunk line. Mutambu was also instrumental in resolving way-leave related issues involving communities along the Isinya-Namanga and Lenya-Tanzania projects. Ngaira is expected to oversee the commissioning of the 612 km Eastern Electricity Highway Transmission Line. Other projects awaiting commissioning include the 290 km Olkaria-Lessos–Kisumu and the 62km Olkaria–Narok project. Speaking during the handing over ceremony, Ngaria expressed appreciation to the president saying he brought on board sufficient skills in leadership and management of resources. “I bring on board sufficient skills in leadership and management of resources, having served the nation in various capacities including working closely with relevant technical ministries mainly on scrutinized  projects in support of Civil Authority,” he said. The former legislator urged the KETRACO management to embrace teamwork owing to the complexity and nature of the company. KETRACO is constructing about 133 km Lessos–Tororo line which will connect Kenya and Uganda. The other project is the 686 km Eastern Electricity Highway Project which will connect Ethiopia and Kenya. The 96 km Kenya-Tanzania inter-connector and Lake Victoria Ring (include 235 km Rongai–Kilgoris line) is also underway, totaling to 1,153 km.