The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has warned members of the public against fraudsters claiming they have links to enable one to get a job at the National Police Service. DCI warning came in the wake of some Kenyans falling prey to fraudsters offering fake calling letters to the service in exchange for money. "The Police recruitment exercise was conducted countrywide and successful candidates have since reported for training," DCI said on Thursday. This comes after three people lost Sh1.8 million they paid to conmen to secure slots in the police service. "Their parents had accompanied them to Nairobi from Nandi County, where they secured their ‘employment’ outside Hilton hotel after parting with Sh600,000 each," DCI said. DCI said that the three, Dismas Kirwa, 25, Felix Kiprotich, 28 and Jepn’getich Kosgei, 20, travelled from Nairobi and were made to believe that they were headed to the National Police College Main Campus – Kiganjo, to begin recruits' course. They were shown their  ‘offer letters’ after payment and were ushered into a waiting Toyota Noah. "The driver was instructed to drop them at the premier police training institution (Kiganjo)," DCI added. The driver stopped for a lunch break at Karatina town, which is approximately 20 kilometres away from the college. However, on finishing their meals, they were shocked to find the vehicle missing from its parking slot at Mathai Supermarket. The driver suggested that it had been stolen but one of the victims did not believe him. This triggered the driver, Martin Nyaga, to attempt an escape but the victims chased and caught up with him. As word of the incident got around, an abandoned Subaru was found at Kerugoya junction where fake offer letters were recovered. However, the vehicle that had ferried the three and their belongings is still missing and efforts to trace it are still underway. The Commission has also warned against bribery as it is a criminal offence. "Equally, members of the public are cautioned that giving a bribe as well as receiving one is an offence contrary to the Bribery Act 2016."