Kangemi Ladies coach Joseph Odhiambo says he will still be in charge of the team even if they are relegated to Division One League at the end of the season. Newbies Kangemi have endured a torrid spell in the Kenya Women’s Premier League, recording just a solitary win in 15 matches and their 2-2 draw against Kayole Starlets at Stima Club, Nairobi on Sunday was their second. Hilda Marriam and Susan Mwololo scored for Kangemi while Dima Halima grabbed a brace for Kayole. Kangemi have five points, five adrift of 11th placed Kayole. Both sides look destined to spend the coming season in the lower tier. “The match against Kayole was a must-win but we dropped two valuable points that would have lifted the mood of the players. The reality is we will be playing in Division One next season but whatever happens, I’ll still be in charge of this team,” said Odhiambo, whose side faces Gaspo this weekend. “We have learned our lessons and we will make a quick return to this competitive league.” His opposite number, Joshua Sakwa said poor officiating his side crucial points in a match they were expected to cruise. Sakwa noted improvement in attack but observed that there’s need to quickly fix the defensive loopholes that have been the team’s undoing this season. “Refereeing was pathetic. Some decisions went against us. Survival is in our own hands and we are responsible for the results. We ought to have won to stand a chance of evading the drop but we let the opportunity slip against Kangemi,” said Sakwa. “We’ve been leaking goals throughout and it’s hard to find any positive thing defensively. Against the unstoppable Vihiga Queens this weekend, we have to avoid conceding many goals. Matches against Wadadia and Kisumu All Starlets will determine our destiny.” Elsewhere, defending champions Thika Queens mauled Nakuru City Queens 3-1. Stella Anyango opened the scoring in the 10th minute with Christine Ngoizi claiming the assist. An inch-perfect cross from Lydia Waganda was cooly slotted at the back of the net by Ngoizi four minutes later. Caroline Khaemba halved the deficit midway through the first half but Anyango had the final say, grabbing her second in the 72nd minute. Realistically, Thika can only finish second as Vihiga are primed for the title after opening an unassailable nine-point lead.