The Kenya Kwanza Alliance parties signed their Coalition Agreement on Tuesday prior to depositing the document with the Registrar of Political Parties. The signing was done by the Secretary Generals of constituent parties of the coalition at the Ngong Racecourse, Nairobi. Deputy President William Ruto, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wentangula witnessed the occasion. Twelve political parties have come under the fold of Kenya Kwanza, including the coalition's founding parties, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA), Ford Kenya and Amani National Congress, ANC. The coalition has settled on Ruto as its presidential candidate in the August 9 polls. The outfit is banking on wooing voters on the strength of the Bottom-up economic model, pesa mfukoni and kazi na pesa agendas that seek to uplift the ordinary Kenyan. The signing of their agreement came even after Mudavadi said last Saturday that political parties willing to join the formation have until May 9, 2022, to do so. Prior to the signing of the agreement, Chama Cha Kazi party leader Moses Kuria said the deal marks the day the Kenya Kwanza train leaves the station. "Make no mistake. William Samoei Ruto will be the 5th President of Kenya in 119 days," Kuria said in a Facebook post. "Our gallant struggle to entrench multi-party democracy within the Kenya Kwanza Alliance has born fruit and we look forward to playing our vanguard role in the William Ruto led Kenya Kwanza Government for National reconstruction," he added. Meanwhile, as Kenya Kwanza were signing their coalition agreement, a storm was brewing within the Azimio la Umoja coalition. This is after One Kenya Alliance (OKA) wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties on Monday to stop the process of registering Azimio-One Kenya Alliance. The parties argued that there was a hidden agenda to change an original agreement that was signed by three caucuses in order to include a fourth caucus without the consent of all parties. However, speaking on Tuesday, Azimio la Umoja Executive director Raphael Tuju dismissed reports of unrest within the formation and said the coalition was intact. He said whatever challenges had emerged were being sorted. "We will resolve the matter and how it will be resolved we leave it to the team within the coalition that is going to deal with the matter and as far as I'm concerned, there's no cause for alarm," Tuju said. He spoke after chairing a meeting of all Azimio-OKA Secretary generals at the Serena Hotel, Nairobi. Tuju said the teething problems being experienced in the coalition are normal occurrences during coalition building.