The Federal Party of Kenya led by Francis Ominde has issued party certificates to aspirants seeking various seats in the forthcoming general election. Among members who have secured party certificates include Francis Ominde for Governor, Joseph Simekha for senator and 11 MCA aspirants in Vihiga county. The ward rep aspirants include Vincent Ababu (Lugaga wa Muluma) eyeing to unseat Victor Ijaika. Ijaika hopes to deputise governor aspirant George Khaniri. Peter Ayida (Izava Lyaduywa), Douglas Omolo (Chavakali), Mwangala Gilbert (Emabungo), Harriet Simila (Tambua), Stephen Badi (Gisambai), Fredrick Olwali (North East Bunyore), Seth Shambamba (Banja), Solomon Mboya (So​u​th Maragoli), Laban Onyiri (Central Maragoli) and Francis Odadia (West Sabatia)  got their ticket. Joseph Simekha,  who recently defected from ANC to FPK, was handed a certificate to vie for Vihiga senatorial seat. Simekha defected after ANC picked Kennedy Butiko to contest for the seat. The move by ANC to pick Butiko has destabilised ODM candidate Godfrey Ososti, who says it's meant to divide his Bunyore bloc. Speaking on Sunday during the issuance of certificates to aspirants from Western region counties at Eden Park Hotel, FPK party leader Ominde said they are hopeful of winning many seats. "We have issued certificates to candidates for governor, senatorial and member of county assembly seats," Ominde said. "FPK has given aspirants vying for various political seats nomination certificates. We are hopeful that FPK will win many seats across the country." He said the party is not ready to join any political alliance until the elections are concluded. Ominde said party members, including aspirants vying for various political seats, are free to support the presidential candidate of their choice without restrictions. He said the party will hold a consultative meeting with members after elections and decide the side they should support, saying they will work with the government of the day. "I have seen parties rushing to join political alliances or coalitions​​ but with FPK we are not ready to join any alliance. We shall work with the government of the day.  We have also given freedom to all our members and aspirants across the country to support the political alliances of their choice," Ominde said. Edited by Henry Makori