Two children died in an accident along Nairobi – Mombasa highway at Maanzoni in Athi River, Machakos. Machakos police commander Issa Mohammud said the accident occurred at around 2.30pm on Sunday. A 14-seater matatu rammed into a stationary truck from behind. The children died on the spot. “The two children were seated at the front seat together with their guardian and driver. Other occupants including the driver sustained injuries,” Mohammud said on the phone on Monday. The matatu was heading to Nairobi when the accident happened. Survivors were rushed to Machakos Level 5 Hospital, while bodies were taken to Shalom Community Hospital in Athi River. The wreckage was towed to Kyumbi police station for inspection. “On Saturday, there were other road accidents in Athi River, Machakos and Matungulu. I am issuing a stern warning to road users, especially motorists, to be careful and alert,” Mohammud said. He also cautioned drivers against parking trailers, trucks or lorries along the road without placing necessary road signs. “Most accidents result from drivers’ faults. It’s upon motorists to abide by the law,” the police boss said. In a separate incident, six people were injured in an accident along Nairobi – Namanga road in Athi River, Machakos. Athi River subcounty police commander Anderson Njagi said the accident involved a private car and a 14–seater matatu, which were moving in the opposite direction. He said the accident occurred a few metres from Savannah Cement on Saturday at around 1am. “The accident occurred after the woman, who was driving the private car failed to keep her lane,” Njagi told the Star on the phone on Saturday. The private car was heading towards Kitengela in Kajiado county, while the matatu was headed in the opposite direction. Athi River Township assistant chief Martin Ngomo said he witnessed the incident while on patrol. He alerted officers from Athi River police station who responded and cleared the scene by rescuing the victims and removing the wreckage. Njagi said all the six victims were rushed to Kitengela Level 4 Hospital. The car is said to have had two occupants, the female driver and a passenger, while the matatu had four occupants, including its driver. He said the wreckage was towed to Athi River police station pending inspection. Njagi said police have launched investigations into the accident. He cautioned motorists against flouting traffic rules and regulations, thus endangering innocent lives. The incident happened barely a week after a 19–year–old woman died in a tragic road accident along Nairobi–Kangundo road at Malaa in Matungulu, Machakos. Esther Kavinya succumbed at Kangundo Level 4 Hospital. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)