The Jubilee party has denied plans to move a vote of a no-confidence motion against National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi following his move to join Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza coalition. The Speaker spoke of the plan to oust him during the Kenya Kwanza coalition agreement signing ceremony in Nairobi on Tuesday. “There are some people planning some things (a vote of no confidence). I am comfortable since Hon Aden Duale (Garissa Township MP) has assured me I am safe,” Muturi said. He dismissed the plans saying it was part of the “many attempts to try and intimidate many party leaders” by their rivals. “You see it has started in my party (Democratic Party). We will climb mountains. Those desirous of trying the old game should know that only a fool does the same thing the same way and expects different results.” Duale and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua alleged there was a scheme by the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya side to have the speaker removed. “They have tried this with William Ruto for the last four years. It will come to a cropper. Muturi will serve as speaker until the next Parliament is sworn in,” the lawmaker said. But the President Uhuru Kenyatta-led Jubilee party dismissed the claims saying it has neither emerged in any of their deliberations nor is it a plan they would pursue. Jubilee Secretary-General Jeremiah Kioni said the ‘party is not bothered’ much as “it is on the record he (Muturi) has met the threshold for removal.” “We have no time to concentrate on such an issue. We have more serious important issues to deal with like the nominations and the general elections and the issues affecting Kenyans,” the Ndaragwa MP said. “There is no time and it is not worth it. These are people looking for unnecessary attention and sympathy. They will be keen to have it because of sympathy, which is the only thing they can take home." Although faulting the speaker for betraying the party’s move of honouring him with the appointment, Kioni argued that it was up to Kenyans to judge the speaker’s actions during his tenure. “How you use your office will be part of your biography. It is good to let Kenyans know that anyone who gets such an appointment doesn’t behave that way. That is not the way to behave when you have been honoured with such an appointment,” Kioni said. “As a party, our position is that we don’t want anybody moving in that direction. It is on the record he has met the threshold for removal, but we wouldn’t want any of our members to move that direction.” A member of the Azimio team who chose to remain anonymous told the Star that the vote of no confidence narrative was being driven by the Tangatanga side for political mileage. “I am not aware of his impeachment,” Minority leader John Mbadi added. Muturi joined Ruto’s camp last Saturday in a move that elicited concerns about how he’d balance the political interests amid the expectations he should remain impartial in his job as speaker. He said his decision to join the alliance was after consultation with party members and community leaders. "I have travelled in many parts of the country and I can confirm that the heartbeat of many Kenyans is with the aspirations that I espouse in this coalition. We are happy to associate with the alliance," he said on Saturday. The speaker has been in the eye of a storm since his active involvement in politics. Some MPs from the Kieleweke faction attempted to have him ousted in June last year. A number of House leaders said the speaker’s removal was a mission impossible as he is the very one who is supposed to sign the motion. At that time, the speaker dared his critics to bring the petition. “Let them bring the motion and I will be the first to sign. That is a very minor thing, it cannot shake me. Whoever thinks he can approach the threshold, let him try," he said then.