Eight Meru MCAs will either vie on independent tickets or drop their bids all together after losing Tuesday's UDA repeat nominations. The United Democratic Alliance under Deputy President William Ruto’s leadership organized the repeat primaries in 14 wards after the initial exercise held on April 14 were chaotic. A number of incumbent MCAs did not participate in the initial exercise. Those who lost in the repeat nomination blamed the party of blackmail. They include Peter Kalembe (Ruiri/Rwarera), Bundi Ng’ala (Kianjai), Martin Mworia (Nyaki West), Julius Mbijiwe (Mwanganthia) and Patrick Muthuri (Abothuguchi West). Others are Stephen Mung’athia (Igembe East), Mutethia Mauru (Ntima East) and Martin Makasi (Nkuene). Already, Muthuri and Mbijiwe have declared that they will defend their seats as independent candidates. The MCAs had earlier argued that the party officials informed all aspirants that there would be no nominations after an opinion poll indicated the popular candidates. As a result, the repeat nominations were not held in at least five wards amid allegations of planned rigging and inefficiencies. The nominations were to take place in Kibirichia, Kisima, Ruiri/Rwarera, Ntima East, Nyaki East, Akachiu, Nyaki west, Akirangondu, Mwanganthia, Abothuguchi West, Nkomo, Nkuene, Abogeta East, Abogeta West and Akachiu wards. In Abogeta East, Nkuene and Abogeta West wards of Imenti South, there was no voting as presiding officers paralyzed the exercise demanding their April 14 arrears. In Abothuguchi West, Aucelio Mwirigi who had won against the incumbent Patrick Muthuri had an easy time after Mwirigi decamped from UDA to contest as an independent candidate. The repeat nominations were largely peaceful save for an incident where chaos erupted at Chaaria Primary school. Koome Gitura was facing the incumbent Julius Mbijiwe at the polls. Order was later restored and voting continued at around 2 pm. The UDA county returning officer Bernard Kiraithe said the outcome of the repeat nomination replicated the results of the cancelled primaries.