The Turkana county government and the Ministry of Defence have signed an agreement allocating 145,792 acres for military bases in Turkana. The bases are expected to prevent cattle rustling, banditry and other crimes across Turkana. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok and Defence Principal Secretary Ibrahim Mohamed signed the agreement at Ekaales centre in Lodwar. Nanok said the Kenya military has been allocated 59,000ha (145,792 acres) to set up military bases across Turkana. The county is allocating 2,000ha in Kanamkemer, 1,000ha each in Kaputir, Kapedo,Napeitom, Lapur, Kibish, Lokichoggio, Nanam, and Letea wards. The county boss said an additional 50,000ha has been reserved by the community for  training purposes in Kapedo, Napeitom aard. Nanok said the agreement will help the county address the challenge of perennial insecurity that has affected development. I am able to witness that we have given you land to enable you come and take care of Defence, especially of our international borders where brave men from our community have been securing the border,” he said. He said he was proud that the agreement has been signed before he leaves power to boost security to allow pastoralists live without fear. He commended KDF for adhering to the Community Land Act and seeking consent of the community through the County Government which holds the land in trust. He stated that community approval was critical to avoid future conflicts. “You will not encounter any roadblocks going forward because what you have received today is asocial licence, which is critical when engaging with local communities,” he added. Nanok announced the county will soon sign a similar agreement with Geothermal Development Corporation (GDC) on development of Silale geothermal power, approved by the community in Kapedo. He said the public participation process on land management across the county had begun. Adjudication of land documents in Lodwar municipality is ongoing to develop title deeds for land owned by residents. PS Mohamed said the partnership will enable the Ministry of Defence to strengthen security as one of President Uhuru’s priorities. “Allocation of land to the Ministry of Defence will provide the much-needed security, enhance development, boost investor confidence and in return create job opportunities for residents of Turkana," he said. He called the agreement an important legacy Governor Nanok will leave behind. nt noted that the agreement is a rich and historical legacy that Governor Nanok will leave behind for the future generation. Vice chief of defence forces Francis Ogolla said the military presence was aimed at securing Kenya’s territorial integrity. (Edited by V. Graham)