Hundreds of farmers in lowland areas of Voi in Taita Taveta are worried about the late March-May rainy season. They said they had hoped for a better harvest this season after a failed October-December season. Kajire farmer Jones Mwakima said green grams and cowpeas should be nearing maturity while sorghum should be flowering. He said he has not planted anything and only a cloud of dust from whirling wind across his five-acre farm is visible. “It rained once at the end of March and we did not plant since we were not sure if the season had started. Until now, we are still waiting for rainfall,” the devastated farmer said. Mwakima urged the government to mobilise resources to assist hunger-stricken residents. He is among the residents of Voi and Mwatate who are facing hunger. The county is among the 23 counties classified as arid and semi-arid lands. More than 2,071 cattle, 451 sheep and 265 goats have died in the region since October due to drought, according to the National Drought Management Authority (NDMA). Further, 70,000 people in the county are facing hunger following a sharp decrease in food production occasioned by below average rainfall. Marungu herder Dickson Mlale said he has been forced to sell some of his livestock as the drought worsens. He said many farmers have stopped rearing cattle and turned to goat keeping because they require little pasture and can withstand harsh climate conditions. “Herders are still recovering from losses incurred last year when hundreds of livestock died. The failed rain season is an indication of another tough year for us,” he lamented. The weatherman had predicted that the county would experience a below average rainfall thus hurting crop production. County Meteorological Department director Robinson Asira said the area is likely to receive light rains and sunny intervals for the better part of this week. “We expect to have sunny intervals during the day and cloudy nights throughout the week. Light to moderate rain is expected in several parts of the county,” Asira said during a weekly forecast report. Data from IGAD shows at least 3.5 million Kenyans are facing hunger brought about by the ongoing drought. IGAD executive director Workneh Gebeyehu said approximately 29 million people are staring at food insecurity and some 15.5 million need food in Africa. Counties reeling from the effects of drought include Kwale, Lamu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Turkana, Samburu and West Pokot. Others are Baringo, Kajiado, Narok, Laikipia, Nyeri, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Makueni, Kitui, Marsabit, Isiolo, Wajir, Garissa and Mandera. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared the drought affecting parts of the country a national disaster. The government is using a multi-agency approach to respond to the drought situation. Edited by A.N