Tension has rocked parts of Mt Elgon region after two people were arrested following the weekend attack by rival political factions allied to UDA aspirants ahead of nominations on Tuesday Two supporters of a UDA aspirant who is also the area Member of Parliament Fred Kapondi were injured after they were attacked with an arrow while another one was slashed with a panga. The incident took place at Tuikut village, Chesikaki location in Cheptais Sub County. Two were held at Chesikaki Police base before they were released on a bond. Mt.Elgon region is a volatile area that has witnessed tribal clashes and the emergency of the ragtag militia groups including the Sabaot land defence force that was brought to a halt after its ring leader Wycliffe Matwakei was gunned down in 2008. Security personnel are on high alert to stop any further attacks associated with politics. Kapondi will be facing his fiery rival Allan Chemayiek and the other six aspirants salivating for the UDA ticket tomorrow. This is after the exercise was halted and postponed from last week following the late arrival of the voting materials. The UDA campaigns have intensified in the region with each aspirant fighting to win the support of the local voters. It was alleged that Kapondi's supporters who were on a roadshow campaigning for their candidate were confronted by Chemayiek's supporters, they clashed and it is at this point that one of the MP's supporters was hit with an arrow. During the incident, both Aspirants' supporters also sustained deep panga cuts. They were rushed to Cheptais Sub County hospital where they were treated and discharged. Mt Elgon residents led by Reverend Arap Psongoywo, called on the two leaders to restrain their supporters from confronting each other adding that they aren't ready to witness what took place in the past. "We are a peaceful region nowadays, let politicians warn their supporters from confronting each other, politics will come and go but peace must be maintained," said Psongoywo. Psongoywo who was in the company of Chemayiek observed that despite their political differences, Mt Elgon residents want to experience a peaceful environment during the general elections period. Chemayiek also urged residents that despite the difference in the political parties, they must maintain peace at all costs.