Despite being voted many times as Africa's best beach destination, Diani was facing a myriad of challenges that included a lack of toilets. Visitors and locals were forced to go into the oceans or nearby bushes, endangering public health. The beach now has modern toilets that are bound to be launched soon for public use. The now-ready toilets is one of the many projects Kwale government is undertaking to boost tourism. The county is also building cabro roads, market stalls, restaurants, car parks and installing street lights in and outside the beach areas to promote business. County Tourism Director Paul Musila said a number of crucial beach access roads have already been completed. He said the county government is committed to elevating the status of Diani's white sandy beaches to deliver standard services and meet the expectation of tourists. "The area is full of biodiversity, and we want to maintain the status quo of Diani so that visitors will continue to be attracted and forced to stay longer," Musila said. Some of the newly constructed roads include Trade Winds, Bidibadu, Mvindeni-Diani and Kongo mosque. Musila said the contractor is moving fast to complete all the roads. He said more than 200 beach operators have been trained in public relations and bookkeeping to promote high quality and reliable beach services. Musila said the training will enhance professionalism in handling visitors and help residents grow socioeconomically. "Better record-keeping will assist them to manage business effectively and access bank loans for more investments," he said. Tourists have often complained of harassment by beach operators. Musila said the county is also working closely with the National Environment Management Authority, plastic recycling industries and beach management units to clean the beaches. He said plastic waste is a hazard to marine life and has soiled the reputation of Diani's white sandy beaches. The director added that they have increased beach surveillance and employed lifeguards. He said the divers will provide tourists with information about the tides to prevent drowning. Kwale's other tourist sites include Shimba Hills National Reserve, Mwaluganje Elephant Sanctuary, Wasini Island, Shimoni caves and Lwayo La Mlungu (God's footprint). In a previous interview, Tourism executive Nasib Nyahi said the county was mapping out and revamping historical sites. He said the county aimed to furnish tourists with diverse packages to reduce dependency on Diani beaches. Musila said the county is transforming the Maji Moto (hot water) springs in Lunga Lunga into a tourist attraction site. The construction of a hotel and pavements is underway. The Maji Moto springs consist of five small wells that have produced hot water for centuries and have never dried up. The springs are surrounded by ancient shrines that are a repository of the area's cultural heritage. Musila said the last phase of Maji Moto development will involve the putting up of lodges. Bidibadu BMU chairman commended the county's efforts. He said the projects will promote job creation. "These toilets will require people to take care of them. We have market stalls and restaurants that will be operated by residents," he said. Trade Winds beach chairman Suleiman Salim Mwaramwendo said the access roads and street lighting have already improved business. He said tourists now go to the beach even in late hours unlike before when the area was bushy and dangerous. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya