The Kiambu government is planning to upgrade Igegania Level 4 hospital in Gatundu North subcounty to a Level 5 facility, to enhance service delivery to residents. Governor James Nyoro said his administration is mobilising funds to rehabilitate the facility and put up requisite amenities. Nyoro said the move comes after the successful upgrade of Gatundu Hospital to a Level 6 in collaboration with Kenyatta University, Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital. “We are now focused on upgrading Igegania hospital and Gituamba health centre in Gatundu North so that residents can access better health services,” Nyoro said. He spoke during the distribution of maize and beans to over 3,000 Gatundu North residents on Tuesday, in Mang'u. The governor who was accompanied by some MCAs said the facility plays a pivotal role in providing health services to Gatundu North residents and other Kenyans who ply the Thika-Flyover highway. He said the county will put up an ICU facility, emergency unit, renal facility among others and an oxygen plant in the hospital. “Igegania serves over 50,000 residents from Gatundu North, Gatundu South and some parts of Murang’a,” Nyoro said. “It also serves other people including accident victims along the Thika-Flyover road. This is why we are determined to upgrade the hospital to offer even specialised services to residents.” The county chief said more medics will be recruited and deployed to the hospital once the upgrade is done. “We will enhance water provision at the facility especially now when the subcounty is experiencing water shortage,” Nyoro said. He said the provision of medical supplies in the hospital and other 108 health facilities across the county will be stabilised upon completion of the county’s Central medical store, being constructed at Ruiru Level 4 Hospital. “We will have a modern warehousing facility to store the medical supplies from Kemsa and other dealers. It will ensure reliable supplies, avoid low stock levels or expired drugs, ensure value for money, and uninterrupted sustainable health services provision,” Nyoro said. Gatundu North residents welcomed the upgrade of Igegania hospital saying it will save them the agony of travelling to Gatundu and Thika in search of better medical services, as it will bring the vital services closer to them. The governor said his administration is working round the clock to ensure the 108 health facilities in the county are well-staffed and stocked with medical supplies.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris