Igembe South MP Paul Mwirigi has threatened to return a car gifted to him by President Uhuru Kenyatta after the 2017 elections. In a Facebook post on Sunday, Mwirigi said he will not be intimidated by President Uhuru’s allies on the pretext that the Head of State bought him a car. Mwirigi accused Agriculture CS Peter Munya of using the gift from the president to blackmail him to change his stance in the coming presidential election. "Let me thank His Excellency the President for gifting me a car in the year 2017. I am much humbled now as I was then. Secondly, I wish to appreciate the President for gifting me wholeheartedly without expecting anything in return,"  he said. He further said a number of leaders have been castigating him claiming that by supporting DP William Ruto, he was disrespecting the president. "If at all CS Munya is speaking for the president, (since he has done this repeatedly on different occasions), I may, for the sake of my peace of mind and independence, consider returning the gift," he said. Mwirigi said he will not bear the blackmail by the CS anymore, and if the attacks are an orchestrated plan to coerce him to change his decision, it will be an exercise in futility. The sentiments come after CS Munya told the MP that he was betraying President Kenyatta who gifted him a car by opting to support Ruto. He was speaking at an event in Igembe South in Meru County. When Mwirigi was given a chance to address, he appeared to downplay Munya's remarks on betrayal and went on to maintain that he is in the UDA party to stay. He went on to explain that his decision to work with Ruto is because he came in handy when he and his people needed help. Mwirigi said it is the DP who prompted Uhuru to give him a car and he, therefore, owes him no allegiance because of that. "I am going to vie for a second term in office on a UDA party ticket. That is my party and my Presidential candidate is William Samoei Ruto who will be elected on August 9, polls," he said. His microphone was switched off for seconds while he was still addressing the crowd.