As KCPE exam candidates prepare to receive their secondary school admission letters  next week, pupils from financially challenged  backgrounds have been urged to apply for financial help. Equity bank group chief executive officer James Mwangi said this year’s wings to fly scholarship programme will start next week. He asked parents and guardians to get the application forms  from the nearest Equity bank branches or agents. Speaking on Wednesday, Mwangi said as an institution, they will be recruiting 20,000 students in the next two years out of which 10,000 students will be in the incoming group. “For the next two years, Equity group has contributed 2,000 scholarships and the government through the World Bank has contributed  18,000 scholarships,” he said. “Commencing next week the application forms will be accessible to the applicants and thereafter we will embark on a rigorous selection process of the most deserving students.” Mwangi, however, called on the students who will be unsuccessful to enroll in public day secondary schools as the tuition is fully sponsored by the government. “Should we face a situation like that of last year where we selected 10,000 scholars out of the 114,000 applicants, we appeal to parents to help their children get admitted in day schools," he said. "This will ensure they too can be in line with the government's  100 per cent secondary school transition policy.” Mwangi said by the end of the two years, 57,000 students will have benefitted under the programme up from the current 37,000. He said that so far, Sh50 billion have been spent towards the programme. Almost 98 per cent of the beneficiaries according to Mwangi have managed to complete high school education with 86 per cent  joining universities. Mwangi said 715 students have managed to study in prestigious universities abroad. The programme sponsors tuition fees, uniforms, pocket money, transport  and shopping for the beneficiaries. The Equity group CEO  was speaking at Baricho Boys High School  in Kirinyaga, during a four-day annual  mentorship programme for 2,000 students. The beneficiaries  are currently undertaking their secondary school education in various schools in the central region. Similar programmes will be held for two weeks, to other beneficiaries in other 16 centres across the country. The banker encouraged the students to embrace core values that are not only key in their academics but that will enable them to be well rounded individuals. As future leaders, he called on them to cultivate a culture of responsibility while simultaneously practicing self-discipline for the sake of the desired transformative change in the country. “Our country requires positive leadership and for this, you all need to grow beyond academics," Mwangi said. "Be your own leader, shine within and outside class. Join school clubs in order to sharpen your skills.” In addition, he urged them to invest their time wisely in their classwork as the country banks on their effort to steer it higher. While building on a positive and resilient character, Mwangi further challenged them to be big thinkers and jealously guard their esteem, pride and self -dignity. He also advised them to be focused and keep off bad company. The CEO further called on Kenyans to provide a conducive environment for the thriving of the young ones by shedding retrogressive and repugnant cultures. He reiterated that all genders need to be given an opportunity to prove themselves in a bid to get a progressive society. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)