National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has joined the Kenya Kwanza Alliance led by deputy president William Ruto. The Speaker's Democratic Party on Saturday signed a coalition agreement with the Kenya Kwanza Alliance at a Karen Hotel in Nairobi. Present at the signing were Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. A host of Ruto-allied MPs were present. Speaker Muturi said his decision to join the alliance was after consultation with party members and community leaders. "I am happy that after several conversations on coming together, today we have realized that dream of working together for our children and our children's children," Speaker Muturi said. He added: "I have travelled in many parts of the country and I can confirm that the heartbeat of many Kenyans is with the aspirations that I espouse in this coalition. We are happy to associate with the alliance". He went on to take a swipe at the state saying it won't coerce the whole nation to move towards a particular political direction. The DP on his part welcomed the Speaker to the party saying his agenda and that of Kenya Kwanza marry. He said their agenda as a coalition is to work together for the good of the nation. "We are proud this morning that we have been joined by the Democratic Party that is associated with transforming the economy of this nation. It is a culmination of months of intense consultation leading to the signing of the coalition agreement," he said. Mudavadi on his part said the move by the Speaker is a continuation of the announcement he made in January at his party NDC. "When we said there will be an earthquake, surely this is another earthquake." The news of Speaker Muturi moving to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance was first shared by allies of the DP on Friday. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot was the first to reveal that the speaker is the latest signing. "Latest Signing. Kenya Kwanza FC. We mean business," he said in a tweet that had an image of him and Speaker Muturi on Saturday morning. Speaker Muturi, who is also the party leader of the Democratic Party, had declared interest to be Kenya's fifth president. His decision to work with the DP raises doubt about whether he will keep his presidential dream alive or opt to back Ruto. The developments come on the deadline day for political parties to belong to a coalition political party.