ODM aspirants have criticised the party's National Elections Board over the manner it conducted and announced results for the Homa Bay nominations, saying it was a sham. Several aspirants and voters are up in arms with the party NEB for allowing its officials to announce nomination results with irregularities. Moline Ngala and Michael Agwanda who contested Woman Representative and Ndhiwa MP seat respectively accused the election officials of announcing doctored results on Friday. Ngala said the announced results had been predetermined before the election and were not the people's will. “The returning officer did not announce the results of ODM members who participated in the nomination. Those results were cooked,” she said. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town on Saturday, the aspirant told the party NEB to give residents accurate results. Ngala said many of them are aggrieved with how the results were handled. “I have begun the process of demanding true results. We need justice in this election,” Ngala said. The aspirant said she was still in the race should ODM fail to listen to their grievances. “I am still exploring other avenues within the party structure. My supporters will get more information later,” Ngala said. In the results, Ngala was position three with 11,045 votes. Former Kisumu executive Joyce Osogo was the winner with 16,888 votes. She was followed by Beatrice Ogola with 15,415 votes. In Ndhiwa constituency, Agwanda told party NEB to repeat the primaries over what he termed as glaring irregularities. Agwanda said the results were prepared three days before the nomination day, on Thursday. He said the nomination was flawed in the entire Homa Bay. “There is a list of predicted ODM nomination results that was circulated on social media platforms about four days before the election. We are dismayed that more than 95 per of the results in the list are true in line with the election results,” Agwanda said. He said there would be voter apathy if the anomaly is not rectified. Agwanda came second with 2,233 votes after Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino who won with 5,196 votes. MCA aspirants Roslyn Oyoko of South Kabuoch ward and Thomas Owino of South Kasipul said they lost because of election offences in the primaries. Oyoko said the results in her ward were announced using a few polling stations after violence scuttled the election in many polling centres. “My chief agent sustained serious panga injuries when she was attacked. Voting did not take place at many polling centres after some people snatched voting tablets from election officials,” Oyoko said. Owino said election officials ignored many polling stations in announcing the results. Five MCA aspirants from Gem West in Rangwe constituency also decried the malpractice. Incumbent MCA Charles Awino, Clifford Rabong’o, Michael Ogallo, Omondi Ayieko and Fred Awiti threatened to go independent should ODM fail to rectify the situation. “We want NEB to repeat the election and announce genuine results,” Awino said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris