The Bamburi Cement Company has launched an awareness and capacity building programme for Kwale residents ahead of the construction of a mine site. The programme is meant to educate residents on the mining process, human rights and compensation terms. The project will cover 375 hectares, affecting 88 families in Denyenye and Mwachome. Bamburi will be mining shale(fine-grained, clastic sedimentary rock)along the Matuga subcounty belt. Programme consultant officer Martin Owen said they intend to educate residents, empower and give them the right information about the project. "Matters of land are very critical and we would want to avoid problems by informing the community what the project entails, compensation terms and what is needed before paving way for mining activities," he said. Owen said the programme incorporates various stakeholders who will assist and protect the residents from any injustices and harassment. He said they will also link residents with the ministry of mining officials through barazas to discuss the importance and contribution of the mining project to the economy and the community. He said the National Land Commission will also be present to oversight the land acquisition and payment processes to ensure the law is followed and fairness prevails. "The NLC will collect opinions from the residents and provide guidance on the proper route to maintain peaceful coexistence," he said. Owen said to curb future conflicts the company will bring on board the Human Rights Commission to ensure locals' rights are not violated. The officer said unlike other companies, Bamburi would like to resolve any disagreements before the project. He said the company will develop a livelihood restoration programme for the affected residents to settle harmoniously after relocating. He said the awareness and capacity building programme will help the firm to gather various proposals from residents and discuss the things they want. He said the company's main goal is to improve the livelihood of the community. "If there were farmers we want to see them going growing, building better houses and improve livelihoods," Owen said. He said so far land evaluations have been done and in the next month they will engage the residents for compensation agreement terms. Owen said the compensations will be done per the land value but he assured the residents that they will be fairly compensated. "The project has a lot of benefits because there are those who will be employed directly and indirectly," he said. He said the community will be the main beneficiary of the corporate social responsibility programme. This is through the establishment of various development, bursaries and scholarship programmes for residents. Matuga MP Kassim Sawa Tandaza told the company to compensate all the residents fairly with or without title deeds. He said they are currently working with Bamburi to make and sign  agreements before the project start. (Edited by Tabnacha O)