Governments’ bid to expand access to clean and adequate water for domestic and agricultural use got a major boost after it was allocated Sh 45.9 billion. Kenya's water coverage currently stands at 70 per cent while sanitation is at 40 per cent. Authorities intend to have both water and sanitation coverage hit 100 per cent by 2030. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani also allocated Sh 16 billion for water resources management. “Environmental protection and access to an adequate supply of clean water are fundamental for the achievement of the socio-economic development envisioned by the Kenya Vision 2030,” the CS said when he presented the 2022/23 budget to the national assembly. Yatani also allocated Sh 9.8 billion for water storage and flood control. In addition, the CS set aside Sh 8.5 billion for irrigation and land reclamation and Sh 2.1 billion for water harvesting and storage for irrigation. In order to support the environment and water conservation, Yatani set aside Sh 10.2 billion for forests and water towers conservation; Sh 3.1 billion for environmental management and protection; Sh 1.5 billion for Meteorological Service; and Sh 7.0 billion for wildlife conservation and management. Yatani said the government is revitalizing efforts to meet this important target through resource mobilization with partners. He said the government is committed to increasing the forest cover from the current 7.2 per cent to 10 per cent. He said counties were being engaged to dedicate more areas and resources under the forestry regimes, as well as tackling the catchment degradation that has contributed to the rising lakes phenomenon. Yatani said that to demonstrate our commitment to addressing climate change, the government will implement the “Financing Locally-Led Climate Action Program” – a 10-year financing program aimed at mobilizing climate finances to support local communities build their resilience and adapt to the impacts of climate change in 47 Counties. In FY 2022/23, he allocated Sh 6.1 billion to the Program. Yatani said the government has finalized the Long-Term Low Emission Strategy to guide a low carbon climate-resilient development path. To address the financing challenge of climate change actions, the Government will develop a Climate Finance Mobilization Strategy. Further, in order to promote private sector investments in green projects and programmes, he said the Government will fast-track the finalization of the National Policy Framework on Green Fiscal Incentives and the development of the carbon mechanism design.