Azimio presidential hopeful Raila Odinga will next week fly to the US, a trip expected to be his last mission abroad before the August 9 general election. Sources close to the former Prime Minister told the Star he will leave the country on April 21, hours after ODM concludes party nominations. Raila has taken a one-week break from campaigns as his party conducts primaries. ODM will be conducting its last nomination in Nairobi on April 21. Raila will have a busy schedule in the US, meeting top-notch US government officials, business community, religious leaders and Kenyans living in America. Raila's campaign secretariat spokesperson Makau Mutua confirmed the trip but did not give further details. He said they will issue communication on the US tour at an appropriate time. While one source said Raila will be accompanied by a high profile team with deep international connections, another said he will be on a private visit and will only be accompanied by close relatives. Although the details of his itinerary remain scanty, the Star has established he will be having a town hall meeting with the diaspora community on Sunday in Washington, DC. At the meeting, he will share his vision for Kenya with the diaspora community. He will also give talks during the one-week tour. Raila is expected back in the country on April 28. The trip comes slightly over a month since he made a similar tour of the UK, where he held meetings explaining his plan and vision for the country. In the UK, Raila met Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby and gave an address at the Commonwealth Secretariat and the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Chatham House. The trips underscore the importance of the international community in the State House race. They also are coming at a time when Kenyans in 12 diaspora countries are expected to vote. Deputy President William Ruto has also made trips in the diaspora to popularise his presidential bid. The US alongside the UK, Canada, South Sudan, Qatar, UAE and Germany are some of the countries where Kenyans will vote for the first in the presidential election on  August 9. The seven countries join Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Africa that participated in the 2017 election. (edited by Amol Awuor)