Nairobi Gubernatorial aspirant Richard Ngatia has maintained he is still in the race to become the City County boss, despite claims of Polycarp Igathe being the favourite for the position. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president however, said he will respect the decision of Azimio-One Kenya Alliance  principals. “I’m still in the race until it's determined by the Principals. There is a lot of consultation going on at the Jubilee Party since the process is of consensus and I believe they finished areas of MP and MCAs with concentration now being on Governors," Ngatia said on Wednesday. There have been claims that Ngatia might have been shortchanged following the entry of former Nairobi Deputy governor Polycarp Igathe into the Nairobi gubernatorial race. The Gubernatorial hopeful revealed that he was part of the State House meeting on Tuesday and no preferred candidate was chosen. He added that consultations are ongoing to pick the right candidate. In attendance were other gubernatorial aspirants, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta who chaired the meeting. “Consultations have been going on and this was not the first meeting at State House. Several issues of Nairobi were discussed including what the polls have been revealing about the Gubernatorial race but no preferred candidate was named ,” Ngatia added. “I am still in the race until it is determined. I understand there are consultations going on but I’m sure no one has been endorsed this is a decision we leave to the party leaders to decide.” Speaking on Igathe’s entry into the gubernatorial race, Ngatia wondered how the Equity Group Chief Commercial Officer will catch up on campaigns, especially with their opponent in Kenya Kwanza Alliance. He stated that there was no time and Azimio need someone who has already identified themselves with Nairobi residents in order to beat Kenya Kwanza's Johnson Sakaja. “I saw Igathe on Tuesday and i'm sure he has not been picked nor has anybody been endorsed. If we look at the situation, someone came in just this week. How will he catch up with campaigns on the ground ,How will this person be able to beat Sakaja. We are on a very thin line but I believe our party leader and Raila will make the right decision,” Ngatia stated. Apart from Ngatia,  other serious contenders seeking the coalition ticket include businesswoman, Nairobi Governor Ann  Kananu and ODM’s Tim Wanyonyi. Last week, Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka endorsed Ngatia for the gubernatorial seat which he was set to contest alongside Philip Kaloki as his running mate. However, on Wednesday the former Kibwezi MP was seen campaigning with Igathe in Nairobi. The issuance of the Nairobi gubernatorial ticket to either of the candidates in the party will have an effect on the line up in the Deputy Governor, Senatorial and Women Rep seats.