Hit Squad captain Nick Okoth says he is unfazed by his performance at the Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa Congo. Okoth settled for bronze after crushing 4-1 to Cameroon's Sangue Alain in the lightweight division at the Studio Maman Angebi hall last Wednesday. The veteran pugilist believes the judges treated him unfairly in the bout, insisting that he actually pulverized his opponent. “We were do sure we had won the bout only to be surprised when the judges declared Sangue the winner,” Okoth said. “Certainly, that wasn't the kind of results we had hoped for but I accept the outcome as part of the game,” Okoth added. The Kenya Defence Forces officer said despite the early exit, he gleaned sufficient expertise from the tournament to charge for the coveted gold at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games slated for July “I now shift focus to the Africa Championship and the Commonwealth Games and I believe my experience in Congo has given me the much deserved edge ahead of the games,” Okoth said. The boxer said he has been asked by head coach Benjamin Musa to join the women's team camp at the Mathare Depot in Nairobi from Monday to help prepare the contingent sharpening claws for the World Boxing Championship in Istanbul Turkey. “We have a team being prepared for the World Women's Boxing Championships in Turkey and the coach asked me to join the camp as a sparring partner,” Okoth said. Okoth, 38, has pledged to jut out his full talons in Birmingham as he eyes one last vintage performance that will define his legacy on his way to retirement. “The Commonwealth Games will be my last competition and I'm thirsty for a gold medal. I want to use the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship to sharpen my claws well enough ahead of the Birmingham trip in July,” he said. Okoth reiterated his desire to wrap up his stellar career with one last vintage performance that will garnish his cabinet with memorable honours. “Like I said earlier on, this will be my final year in the ring. I hope to call time on my career after the Commonwealth Games in July and I'm not ready to sign out with losses,” Okoth said. “I believe I've prepared well and I'm looking forward to having a brilliant time at the games. I'll simply apply whatever I've been taught by the coaches and spruce it up with my own expertise,” Okoth said.  