The fuel shortage in the country is to blame for the low number of boda bodas being registered in Kwale. By Monday, the region had only managed to register 2,140 motorcycles out of the targeted 15,000. The new boda boda registration commenced two weeks ago following a directive issued by the government. The exercise is expected to take 60 days. It is part of the government's efforts to restore sanity in the sector. According to Kwale boda boda association chairperson Nehemiah Kinywa, most operators cannot make it to the Huduma Centre due to lack of fuel. "The riders can't comply with the government directive because they are unable to travel," he said. Kwale is only served by one Huduma Centre which is situated at the county headquarters. Kinywa said many youths bought the motorbike on loans and are forced to skip the registration to meet their daily targets. He said with the fuel scarcity many would prefer to queue for long hours in petrol stations to get the crucial commodity. He said most riders refilled their tanks very late and they use the remaining time to raise money and settle debts. "They can get fuel at around 2pm after waiting the whole morning and this denies them the chance to go for the registration," he said. For example, the price of petrol in Kwale goes for between Sh200-250 and sometimes even more. The most affected boda boda operators are those from the Lunga Lunga and Kinango subcounties. Kinywa said the youth want to abide by the rules but circumstances don't allow it. He called on the government and National Transport Safety Authority to launch mobile registration exercises at the grassroots for the operators to be registered. Ukunda ward Boda boda chairman Bernard Ojuma also urged the government to stabilise the fuel supply in the region. He complained that the motorcycle operators are sidelined at refilling stations as public and private vehicles are being prioritised. Ojuma said the sector is the most hit because many operators can't afford the new fuel prices. "We are told to get the insurance covers and enrol into driving schools the question is where will get that money if we can even buy fuel," he said. Meanwhile, long queues are still witnessed in some petrol stations along Diani. (Edited by Tabnacha O)