Siaya Senator James Orengo is inching closer to his governor bid after one of his competitors, Bella Akinyi, withdrew from the race. Even though she has not declared support for Orengo, Akinyi said she will remain in the ODM. Orengo still has to face governor hopeful George Mbeya, who is also eyeing the ODM ticket. He will later face Nicholas Gumbo, who teamed up with former police spokesperson Charles Owino after they defected to United Democratic Movement party. They left ODM after reports that Orengo would be given a direct ticket in the race to succeed Governor Cornel Rasanga, who is serving his second term. Akinyi expressed disappointment with the party and blamed the top brass over what she termed as a well-orchestrated chaos before and during nominations. “I am still going to be with ODM because I have been with Raila Odinga since LDP days and even when he was in detention. But this chaotic nomination must stop,” Akinyi said. She said she will swallow a humble pie and congratulate her opponents, adding that ODM had decided long time ago it was going to give a direct ticket to a specific candidate. “But they were not brave enough. They feared and went behind the scenes to nominate their choice,” Akinyi said, adding that she has shares in ODM like any other member. “It is either ODM has become extremely ineffective or organised chaos to ensure there will always be internal interference during nominations," she said. Akinyi said the nomination mess has distracted ODM members and supporters from the real goal of ensuring Raila clinches the presidency. “We are not even talking about Raila's presidency but nomination chaos in ODM. This orchestrated chaos must stop and the party must ensure there is good organisation,” she said. Akinyi regretted investing time and money in traversing the county to popularise her bid. “I have been carrying out organised campaigns hoping the party will conduct free, fair and credible nominations. But fairness is far from their reach,” Akinyi said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)