Baringo aspirants who lost in the United Democratic Party primaries are now seeking to contest as independent aspirants in the August 9 polls. Governor Stanley Kiptis is the latest Deputy President William Ruto ally to make his declaration of going independent. "I had to listen to my supporters, who told me to defend my seat as an independent candidate," Kiptis said on Wednesday. Kiptis emerged third with 25,976 votes in the hotly contested nominations on April 14. His predecessor Benjamin Cheboi won with 45,666. Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet, who was second in the primaries also joined independent aspirants convoy on Wednesday. Kiptis and Lessonet disputed the nominations results terming the exercise shambolic and marred with 'too much' irregularities. "UDA nomination were not free and fair but I call upon the people to utilise the August 9 polls to exercise their democratic right and vote for their leaders of choice," Kiptis said. He said his decision to run as an independent aspirant does not affect his support for Ruto. "Yes I support Ruto on his quest but I am exercising my democratic right for the people of Baringo to reelect me," Kiptis said. “We have had a series of meetings since Saturday last week in Nakuru and Nairobi and we were discussing the nominations. Yes we met the DP and discussed.” He however did not make it clear whether Ruto gave them the go-ahead to vie go independent. He added that he is confident that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission will conduct free and fair elections in the August polls. “I believe in IEBC that is why I presented my candidature knowing that Wafula Chebukati is serious and we won't fall victims of manipulation again,” he said. Kiptis said he has been cleared by the Registrar of political parties and his symbol is Cotton saying "he is pure as cotton." County assembly speaker David Kiplagat who seeks to dethrone Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie will also vie as an independent aspirant. Two MCA aspirants also ditched UDA to go independent, they include Daniel Tuitoek and Emmanuel Ng'etuny. (Edited by Tabnacha O)