Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei says he expects many athletes to double up at the World Championships in Oregon and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. Athletics' biggest competition is set for July 15-24 at the Hayward athletics field whereas the Club Games commence July 28-August 4. Nonetheless, Tuwei believes the minimal resting period will not deter the ambitions of many who want to compete at the two Championships. "For the marathoners, it is impossible for the same set to compete at both events. But for the other races, it is possible for them to double... Even the 10,000m. It is okay and we welcome them," Tuwei said. He added: "If you look at the programme for the Commonwealth and World Championship, there's a two and a half week break for most athletes who will run at the World Championships. That is more than enough time for recovery." AK named two different marathon teams for the World Championships and the Commonwealth Games. World champion Ruth Chepngetich headlines the women's troupe to Oregon, alongside Amsterdam Marathon champion Angela Tanui, newly-crowned Paris Marathon champion Judith Jeptum and Maurine Chepkemoi. Former world half marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor will represent the men, alongside 2019 Boston Marathon Lawrence Cherono, Barnabas Kiptum, and 2017 world champion Geoffrey Kirui. For the Commonwealth Games, Philemon Kacheran, Jonathan Korir, Eric Kiptanui, and Michael Githae as standby. The women's squad includes Stella Barsosio, Purity Changwony, and Margaret Wangare whereas Viola Jeptoo will be the reserve athlete. "We will provide more information on the coaches to handle the team as well as the training camp," Tuwei added. At the same time, the national trials for the Commonwealth and World Championships are set for May 20-21 and June 24-25 respectively. AK's director of competitions Paul Mutwii said they will put structures in place to ensure everything runs smoothly. "We expect there will be athletes who will want to compete in both trials. We welcome them to try and double up and with the panel of selectors, we will afterward sit down and decide on the ones to take to both events," Mutwii said. The trials will be invitational where the first two winners in each category qualify automatically. Third-placed participants will be subjected to a selection process. Mutwii said they are not worried about Kenya's weaknesses in various categories. "If you have attended our weekend meetings, you must have seen the enthusiasm among our athletes. We are not worried about any weaknesses because we know this enthusiasm will turn into results. If there are any events outside for athletes to gain a qualification, then we will also organize for them, " he said.