Last Thursday as Treasury CS Ukur Yatani prepared to read the budget, Julius Kamau Kimani decided to protest and make his frustrations known. The mitumba hawker was the lone placard-carrying protestor who was arrested by plainclothes police officers. The officers locked him up at the Central police station but later got released after Defenders Coalition paid Sh5,000 bond that earned him his temporary freedom. The Star met him on Wednesday when he got summoned back to the station. Kamau says before the protest, he knew the police officers would restrain him with brute force. He says despite that, poverty made worse by the ever-rising cost of essential commodities, high inflation and unbearable cost of living, saw him push through with the idea. Kamau earns Sh1,000 or Sh2,000 on a good day. Over time, the sales have taken a significant dip, and sometimes he doesn’t sell at all. The hawker says he had his children in mind. “I have two children who must eat even when there are no sales. I thought it was my duty to tell the rich and powerful leaders that we were suffering while they enjoyed,” he says. “If I don’t protest, I would fail my children.” The catering graduate says they are hungry, poor, sick and lack quality healthcare, which he says is reserved for the rich. Kamau says he also wanted media attention. “I always protest alone at the Parliament Buildings. I always demand that the leaders address our issues or resign, but no one cares to listen,” he says. “No media house covers me. However, when I heard the budget was to be read, I knew it was the perfect opportunity to have my message highlighted in the media.” Kamau says when the officers arrested him, he got bundled into a waiting lorry and was manhandled. “In the lorry, they put me under the beach while chained. They told me to shut up,” he says. However, protesting is more of a lifestyle for Kamau.  He has a collection of placards in his house carrying various messages. He has been part of most of the public-spirited protests. He says he is a preacher in his local ACK church and does street preaching and his message is often one; it is time for Kenyans to rise and reject bad leadership. “It is like people fear or are reluctant to speak up about the bad things they are going through. I speak up daily,” the hawker says. Kamau says the August polls are not in the interest of Kenyans and should not happen. “The people on offer are all in power but promise to do things they have failed to do before,” he says. The constitutional dictates on the elections notwithstanding, he says, failing to hold the polls would force a public conversation on what our stake as common Kenyans are.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris