World marathon champion Ruth Chepng'etich says she is adapting well to life as a Kenya Prisons officer and is presently loving the experience. Chepng'etich said she is slowly transforming her perspective of the world while balancing her security duties with a career as an athlete. "It is so far so good...I have had to change my mentality to see things in a new way and not as a civilian. Every day, I keep learning about the importance of being serious in whatever I do and the need to put God first in everything. I am loving the experience," the Istanbul Half Marathon champion said. Indeed, it has been a blissful start to life as a prison warden after a delightful debut on the track at the Kenya Prisons Athletics Championships a fortnight ago. The Nagoya Women's Marathon champion clocked 31:44.47 to clinch the women's 10,000m, having also triumphed in the 5000m.  Reflecting on her win, Chepng'etich credited it to self-belief and discipline. "My debut in track races went exactly the way I wanted it to go. I had self-belief and knew that with discipline and focus comes success. I thank God for the win and for repaying me for all the hard work in training," the Chicago Marathon champion said. She was speaking on Thursday after being named the LG/SJAK Sports Personality in March, following her exploits in Japan where she clocked 2:17:18 for the second-fastest ever time in a women's only marathon. Chepng'etich beat to the top gong a host of big names, including world marathon record holders Eliud Kipchoge and Brigid Kosgei who set course records at the Tokyo Marathon. For her efforts, she was awarded with an LG Solardom Oven and a trophy engraved with her name. Speaking at the same event, four-time Boston Marathon champion Catherine Ndereba thanked the corporate sector and the media for motivating sportspersons with such awards. "I am happy to have a junior officer win the award, it brings back the memories of my golden days. It reminds me of the days of SOYA when I won it two or three times. God bless you for this initiative," Ndereba said. LG Electronics Corporates Marketing Manager Maureen Kemunto said the company's long-term vision is to motivate more talents from the grassroots. "This award allows us as LG Electronics to strengthen sports cohesion among our sports champions and communities across diverse disciplines. Our commitment is to ensure that the desire the dream and vision of our sports personalities do not wither," she said.