Education CS George Magoha released the 2021 KCSE exam results on Saturday. With that announcement, the students will now know whether they will join university, college or Technical and Vocational Education and Training institutions. Just as the candidates, parents were anxious to know how their children would perform. As is usually the case, some scored highly, averagely and while others did poorly, so to say. We have seen parents and families celebrating with their children who scored highly. Parents of students who were not lucky to perform well accept the results the way they are and think of what to do next because there are so many opportunities. Parents and/or guardians should not stress their students because of their results. Over the years, we have seen cases of students running away from home, while others committed suicide after the release of KCSE and KCPE results because they didn’t get “good grades”. All this comes from the pressure that society and parents exert on these students, who might struggle so much to pass but were not lucky. Some parents have even forced their children to repeat against their children's will. It’s sad to see families losing students after condemning them for wasting school fees after expecting high grades from them. Society should style up and stop viewing these students as failures and a burden to their parents. These students who face such kind of treatment usually give up in life easily. Some girls opt to get married leading to early pregnancies, while others engage in drugs and substance abuse as a way to “release pressure” they get from society. In the process, they get trapped in the drug abuse menace. Parents fail to understand there are TVET institutions that can accommodate these students. They are actually the best because they equip such students with skills in carpentry, masonry, hairdressing and many other courses that enable them to self employ themselves after their studies. It is high time for parents and guardians to accept the results and encourage their children regardless of their performances. All of us are unique in different ways. Wafula Meshack is a media student at Rongo University 