As schools open this week and some getting ready to reopen next week, a lot of young children will be starting school. Starting school is a big step for toddlers who have reached school-going age and the first days can be very tricky to navigate. One of the hardest sights to see is children clinging to their parents, crying at the school gates as teachers try to pull them off of their parents' legs and into the classroom. It can go on for weeks before a child adjusts but, it does not have to be this way. Here are some tips for having a crying-free transition into school. 1. Start talking about school early. You can start telling your child early that they will be going to school to get them excited and anticipate the day. Do they have friends who are in school or older siblings? Let the child know that they will be going to school like their big sister or their friend so they can start getting a picture of it early. 2. Get them involved with preparations. Going to buy uniforms? Take them with you. Let them be part of the process. When they see that they are getting new ‘clothes’, a cool school bag, pens and crayons, they will be excited for the day they get to wear them and use them in school. 3. Be patient with them. Remember, school is a whole new territory for young children, especially those who have never been to childcare institutions such as daycares and playgroups. If they cry at the school gates or come home saying they hate school and never want to go back, be patient with them because they are having a hard time adjusting. But if you keep on talking to them about the fun aspects of school such as making new friends and playing, they will start to come around. A lot of us eventually did, right? 4. Make sure your child is ready for school. Is your child at least three years old and can communicate effectively with children their age and adults? Can they take instructions well? Do they play well with others? Are they potty-trained? Remember, pre-school is not where children go to be parented by teachers. They go to get an Education. As a parent, make sure you have done your job to prepare them for getting educated.