In a special edition to mark Women’s History Month, The Boardroom Africa (TBR) has launched a list of 20 African female executives to watch. Among them are two Kenya women, Kanini Mutooni and Ory Okollo who TBR says are great candidates for non-executive director (NED) roles in the private, public and nonprofit sectors. Mutooni is currently the Managing Director at Draper Richards Kaplan, a venture philanthropy institution investing in global early-stage entrepreneurs deploying capital to create change. “She was previously EMEA Managing Director for Toniic, the immediate former Board Chair of The Global Innovation Fund and currently chairs the Nomination’s committee at the UK Government’s Financial Sector Deepening Trust (FSDA),” said the Boardroom. In 2014, she was recognized by the World Economic Forum as a Young Global Leader. Until recently, Okollo was the managing director of Omidyar Network and Luminate Group in Africa. “Prior to this, she was Google’s policy and strategy manager for Africa and founding member of Ushahidi,” they said. Okollo also serves on the Board of Directors of several organisations including the Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company, the East African Breweries Limited, Deloitte Africa, the Board of Trustees of the Van Leer Group, and the Adecco Group Foundation and the Harvard Africa Advisory Group. “She is also the chair of the Stanbic Bank Kenya Foundation. She has been named a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum, one of Africa’s most Powerful Women by Forbes Magazine and Time 100’s most influential people in the World,” they added. The Boardroom works to accelerate the appointment of women on boards and build a growing pipeline of board-ready women. “We believe that women deserve a seat at the table and we know where to find the right candidates to bring to the table,” they said. Gender Equality on boards has been on the steady increase in Kenya over the years. According to the 2020-2021 Board Diversity Report done by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), the Kenya Institute of Management(KIM) and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), Kenya is fairing well globally with a diversity of 36 per cent at present, compared to 21 per cent in 2017. It shows that Kenya has been doing better in terms of global numbers as the Global Average of board diversity is 23.3 per cent from 20.4 per cent in 2018. The Boardroom Africa has also shown that East Africa is a champion of board diversity beating Europe, North America and Asia in the percentage of women on boards. “West Africa tops the list at 23 per cent followed by East Africa at 22 per cent and Southern Africa at 20 per cent,” said the Boardroom. Europe has a percentage of 10 in terms of women on boards, North America ties with the Middle East, North Africa and the Caribbean at nine per cent, Central Africa is at five per cent and Asia at two. The African Development Bank Group study of 2015 also found that Kenya has the highest women on boards representation in Africa at 19.8 per cent followed by South Africa at 17.4 per cent. Kenya is working towards becoming a champion of board diversity with women heading a number of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE). The East African Breweries Limited (EABL) is headed by Group managing director, Jane Karuku, Diamond Trust Bank (DTB) is headed by chief executive officer Nasim Devji, KenGen is headed by Rebecca Miano and Eveready East Africa is headed by CEO Margaret Odhiambo. The Boardroom has found that the Finacial Sector has the highest percentage of women on boards at 20 per cent while the Agricultural sector has the lowest at two per cent. “Professional services 19 per cent, Tech has 15 per cent, the Public and Non Profit sector has 13 per cent, Consumer and Manufacturing has 12 per cent, Energy and heavy industry has 10 per cent, and Health Care and pharmaceuticals has nine per cent,” they said. Recently, the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) officially launched its Gender Policy to guide its members in gender mainstreaming. Mucha Mlingo, the Chairperson of KEPSA’s Gender Board said that the policy has a seven-point agenda that will be able to guide companies or organisations seeking to optimise gender equality and women empowerment initiatives. “Companies can support women and other marginalised groups in the workforce, business, business associations and leadership including but not limited to implementing gender budgets and resource mobilisation,” she said. She said that companies can be able to make better, more informed decisions if they have women as part of their boards. "A report by McKinsey noted that companies with women in top management outperform those with no women in top management," she said. Some studies, she added, have also highlighted that gender-inclusive leadership causes businesses to be more socially and environmentally responsible. Therefore, there is a strong business case for gender diversity on boards and in business in general.