A storm is simmering in former Bomet governor Isaac Rutto's Chama Cha Mashinani party after reports emerged that a section of aspirants was issued with direct tickets. The reports emerged even as the party slated its primaries for Tuesday. Among those who claim to have been shortchanged are two youthful aspirants Irine Terer and Collins Kibet Kones who had expressed interest in running for woman representative and Senate seats respectively on a CCM ticket. Terer told the Star she was a sole candidate for the woman representative seat before the entry of nominated senator Alice Milgo in the race. She accused some top party officials of using underhand means to issue Milgo with the party ticket. Terer noted that she was implored to back Milgo because she is more experienced politically. "I had earlier been promised of the ticket by the party leader because I have all along been the only one in the race before Milgo emerged only to be asked to shelf the ambition in her favour," She told the Star. "They started sending emissaries to prevail upon me to vacate my interest or enter into consensus with her but since that option was unsuccessful, they told us we go the delegates' way." Terer now says the voting by delegates was unfair and lacked transparency since those who took part were instructed on how to vote. "I have talked to some of those delegates and they said they received calls to vote for my opponent," she told the press. Enock Kemei, who is the current party's county coordinator has been handed the ticket to fly the Bomet senatorial seat leaving out Kones who had expressed interest in running for it. Kemei, the party argued, won by 214 votes in a delegates' voting system that is alleged to have been conducted last week. When reached for comment, the party's national elections board chair Francis Tonui said they are yet to issue certificates to anyone and they will only do so after completion of the exercise. On why the party did not subject the aspirants for the two seats in the county to a competitive process, Tonui pointed out that it was not possible since the tendering process for printing the ballot papers had been closed. "Any agrieved person can still vie as an independent candidate since there is no option to join another party now. This is still allowed in a democratic process," Tonui said in a text message Rutto had on Saturday held a briefing with candidates for various seats where he sought to assure them that the exercise would be free and fair.