Things are starting to get interesting as the major leagues across Europe head towards the final quarter of the 2022 campaign. With an average of nine matches left across the leagues nothing at either end of the league tables in England, Spain, Italy, Germany, or indeed France has been resolved yet. It makes for another key football weekend across Western and Central Europe. English Premier League Everton vs Manchester United (Saturday 2:30 pm) Prediction (1-3) For years, the Blue half of Merseyside used to bracket themselves alongside the big six clubs in England. Lately, though, they have found themselves entangled in the lower echelons of the league. For the first time in 68 years, Everton are facing the reality of being involved in a relegation dogfight. They are only a point above the drop zone and defeat to equally struggling giants Manchester United on Saturday will drag them even further into the relegation mire. United too have plenty to lose in this duel. Their grip on a top-four place has loosened over the last month. Anything but victory will only heighten the pressure on Ralf Ragnick and his charges. Southampton vs Chelsea (Saturday, 5 pm) Prediction (2-1) At some point in this season, it looked a given that Chelsea will finish in the top four and even challenge for the EPL title. With eight matches left to play and on the back of a damaging defeat last time out, the Blues make the trip to the South Coast needing all three points against plucky Southampton. Another defeat will leave them within striking distance of London rivals Tottenham and Arsenal Manchester City Vs Liverpool (Sunday 6.30 pm) Prediction (1-1) Two titans of world football lock horns on Sunday evening looking to land a damaging blow to their opponents' aspirations. City are separated from Liverpool by just one point. Pep Guardiola will be wondering how that came to be, given that they held a 14-points gap in January. Momentum is with Liverpool following a sequence of 10 straight league wins. The good news for City though is that they are yet to be beaten at home in the league by Klopp's charges. SERIE A Inter Milan vs Verona (Saturday 7 pm) prediction (2-1) The Italian champions, Inter Milan have blown hot and cold in their title defence but still find themselves well in the frame for a second successive scudetto. They face mid-table side, Verona, looking for three points that will put them just a point below eternal rivals AC Milan. The result is not guaranteed given the annoying inconsistency of Simone Inzaghi's charges. Napoli vs Fiorentina (Sunday 4 pm) prediction (4-1) It would be a fitting ending to a sad period in the history of Napoli if they would win the Italian championship just a year after the death of club legend, Diego Maradona. The Argentine icon immortalized himself among the Partenopei faithful when he won their only two league titles in 1986 and 1987. They take on Fiorentina looking to claim the top spot in a topsy-turvy race for the scudetto. Torino vs AC Milan (Sunday 9:45pm) Prediction (2-0) After punching above their weight over the last few seasons, Torino find themselves in familiar territory. They sit just outside the top ten and face league leaders AC Milan. The Turin side have, however, always had a knack of upsetting the big boys from Rome and Milan every time they visit and this might just be another of those.