The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has warned bloggers who post abusive online content, which may promote violence. The IEBC vice chair Juliana Cherera said the commission is keen on monitoring offensive online material following increased abuse on social media platforms. Cherera said they have partnered with various agencies to examine and peel off harmful online information. "We are working with Meta platforms that control Facebook and in our partnership, they are plugging out repulsive content," she said. The IEBC vice chair said offensive online content is used to intimidate female aspirants more. Cherera advised the bloggers to analyse their content before posting or face the full force of the law. She said IEBC wants free, fair and peaceful elections and they will protect aspirants from any form of harassment. "Check what you post because we don't want cases of intimidation or insecure elections," she said. Cherera said they have already summoned and disciplined several people for circulating offensive material. She said IEBC has formulated strict disciplinary measures and appropriate code of conducts that have assisted in quelling political temperatures. She insisted that political parties and aspirants should abide by the rules and regulations to promote peaceful campaigns and elections. She underscored the importance of candidates and their parties to deposit with IEBC their campaign schedules on time for proper planning. She spoke on Monday, when she graced the launch of Human Rights Agenda 2022's election strategy plan at Jacaranda hotel in Ukunda. The plan will assist rights groups and stakeholders to enhance credibility, transparency and peaceful elections. The strategy also seeks to provide training, awareness and empowerment to women youth and people living with disabilities. The strategy plan is implemented in the three coastal counties of Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi. According to HURIA executive director Yusuf Lule, the three counties have a higher number of voters and are hotspots for violence. He said the plan will provide room for public debates, dialogues and media training to help mitigate the harm of online content. Meanwhile, Cherera urged the rights groups to support women and empower them. She called on the inclusion of more women in political parties in line with the two-third gender rule. She urged the female candidates not to shy off and  vie for political seats. "We want to see more women getting elected and the commission has had women registration fees reduced to encourage them to contest," she said. Cherera said the commission is well prepared to conduct the polls and they have enough funding to run a smooth and effective electoral process. "We have procured the required material and everything is in place," she said. Cherera revealed that they have reshuffled staff to enhance free and fair polls. She said it is a policy within the IEBC that new staff will be managing the election and have the old ones taken to other regions. Coast representative for the Registrar of Political Parties Ezekiel Obonyo said they won't relent to take action against those who will violate the code of conducts. He said aspirants have up to May 2, to register as an independent. "If the party play tricks on you, it's not too late you can still come and have a certificate that will help you go independent," he said. County commissioner Gideon Oyagi assured that government will work with various stakeholders to provide security and ensure peaceful elections. (Edited by Tabnacha O)