A man died by suicide after he attempted to kill his wife in Mbooni East, Makueni county. Benson Musyoka, 59, attacked his wife Veronica Nzambali Muli, 54, with a panga at Mithumo village in Nduluku location on Monday, April 4. Makueni county police commander Joseph Napeiyan said the incident occurred at 2am. He said the matter was reported to Mukuku police post as an attempted murder and suicide incident under OB Number: 05/04/03/2022 at 10am. "The incident was reported by the Mithumo sublocation assistant chief,” Napeiyan told reporters in his office on Tuesday. He said the deceased inflicted serious injuries all over his wife’s body. “Musyoka then hang himself with a rope tied on a tree trunk about 300 meters from his residence. A blood stained panga was recovered from the scene. No suicide note was found,” Napeiyan said. The police boss said the injured woman was taken to Makueni County Referral Hospital. “The suicide scene was processed and the body moved to Taw Funeral Home awaiting an autopsy,” he said. Napeiyan said police have launched investigations into the incident. The incident happened a fortnight after a man allegedly hacked his girlfriend at Kalama in Machakos on March 24. The body of Faith Mutinda, 35, was discovered the next day after the suspected killer Harrison Muiva disappeared. Muiva allegedly hacked Mutinda to death and went into hiding using her car. The car was later found abandoned in Makueni on March 30. Mutinda was found in a pool of blood with deep cuts on her head and hands. Until her demise, she was working at Kenya Railways as an assistant audit manager. The man's parents Richard and Florence Muiva reported the matter to the assistant chief and later to Konza police station. Konza police station officers and Machakos DCI officers arrived at the scene and sealed it off. The body was taken to a Machakos mortuary where a post-mortem was conducted. Police said the woman died of excessive bleeding due to multiple cuts. The suspect was later arrested at a lodging in Mlolongo town after he unsuccessfully attempted to commit suicide. The murder weapon, a panga, was recovered at the scene of crime. He was taken to Kitengela Level 5 Hospital in Kajiado where he was treated before being arrested and locked up at Mlolongo police station. DCI detectives from Machakos police station later picked Muiva from the station and transferred him to Machakos where he is being held. A Machakos court on Monday granted the sleuths seven more days to detain the suspect as they finalise their investigations. Muiva will be presented in court on April 12 for plea taking. Mutinda will be buried at her parents’ home in Kithimani, Yatta subcounty on April 6. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)