Zalego Academy, a subsidiary of StepWise Inc. that focuses on ICT training and enhancing the employability of youth and people from underserved communities, is working with Amazon Web Services (AWS). The partnership is aimed at delivering training and certification for cloud skills to learners in Kenya. Zalego has joined the cloud provider’s training partner program and will concentrate on social impact initiatives. This training will not only enable cloud fluency for unemployed youth and graduates to leverage the power of cloud, but will also create a new pathway of economic opportunity for young people to partake in cloud computing jobs. It is designed for organisations like Zalego Academy, that meet or exceed rigorous criteria for delivering and or offering high-quality technical training. According to Maureen Lonergan, vice president, AWS training and certification, organisations need individuals with cloud skills to help transform their business, and there is a growing demand for IT professionals with cloud skills. AWS training and certification, along with our training partners like Zalego Academy, aims to equip the builders of today and tomorrow with the knowledge they need to leverage the power of cloud. AWS training, designed by experts, teaches in-demand cloud skills and best practices, helping learners prepare for AWS Certification exams so they can advance their careers and transform their organisations. With the support of AWS, Zalego Academy can build innovative programs that have a lasting impact, particularly to the underserved and underrepresented in Africa, says Chris Harrison, CEO StepWise. Delivering AWS training and certification is perfectly aligned with StepWise’s purpose of preparing an inclusive talent pipeline and creating sustainable employment for a technology-driven world. The training is developed and maintained by cloud experts, ensuring the content reflects current best practices. AWS classroom training gives learners the opportunity to engage live and get questions answered by an expert instructor. Many courses also include hands-on labs, allowing learners to practice real-world scenarios in a sandbox environment. Training also helps prepare learners for the cloud service provider’s certification exams, which validate technical skills and expertise with an industry-recognized credential. StepWise is focused particularly on enhancing economic inclusion in Africa through the creation of digital jobs for people from disadvantaged communities, women, the chronically unemployed, and individuals with disabilities. Through the Foundation’s Scholarship Program, Zalego Academy provides individuals with disabilities and underserved youth in East Africa, with career-ready technology skills through programs that are aligned with the current and future job market. These demands are driven by advancements in technology.