Chief Justice Martha Koome has said that the Judiciary is committed to dealing firmly, swiftly and with integrity on corruption-related concerns that may arise within the institution to boost public confidence. Koome further says the Judiciary is committed to enhancing access to justice by removing both formal and informal barriers to access to justice. "We are aiming at developing a people-centred justice system that is focused on people’s needs thus reinforcing the idea of justice as a public good," she said. She said this will be achieved through the Social Transformation Access to Justice (STAJ) vision where the Judiciary aspires to open the doors of justice for all. Koome spoke on Wednesday in Mombasa during the 2022 Annual Judges Colloquium held at Whitesands Hotel. The CJ said the widening of access to justice will be attained through establishing an efficient, cost-effective, accessible, expeditious and fair justice delivery system. This will include the establishment of a Magistrates’ court in every sub-county and a High Court and Court of equal status in every county. "I should emphasise that in pursuit of this vision, the Judiciary must remain an independent and impartial institution," she said. Despite tremendous achievements in the past years, the Judiciary continues to face challenges such as case backlog and accountability. The institution has been under immense pressure to deal with case backlogs stretching several years back. The Judiciary has also been on the spot over graft allegations where the integrity of some of its officers has been questioned. The concerns gained the public limelight in June 2021 after President Uhuru Kenyatta turned down the nomination of six judges. The six were among 40 candidates nominated by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) to the Court of Appeal, Environment and Lands Court, and the Employment and Labour Relations Court. A statement from the State House said the six were left out because they had not met the threshold and would be referred back to JSC.