Former Kasarani MP Elizabeth Ongoro suffered a blow after a trial court allowed the DPP to adduce new evidence in her Sh43 million graft case. Milimani Anti-corruption court senior principal magistrate Peter Ooko on Tuesday also allowed the prosecution to call seven more witnesses. Ongoro is charged alongside her husband Ferdinand Masha Kenga and eight others. The DPP will also amend the charge sheet in the case. In his ruling, the magistrate said after analysing both submissions from the prosecution and objection by defence, he found the application merited. "I find that the DPP’s application to produce more evidence and charge the accused afresh to have merit and accordingly allow him as prayed," the magistrate ruled. He directed the prosecution to supply all copies of new evidence to the defence before the mention of the case on April 26. The magistrate also ordered all the accused to be present during the mention of the case for the purpose of taking plea in the amended charge sheet. In the application, the DPP had told trial magistrate that he wants to add new documents, add seven more witnesses and amend the charge sheet as evidence to support the prosecution graft case against all the accused. The  prosecution argued that the new developments follow after the investigating officer brought to the attention of the prosecution some new documents which had not been obtained or were in the process of being acquired by the time the case commenced, are now in their custody. He said the new documents will assist the prosecution to prove the case against the accused. “The documents are crucial, relevant and substantial for the just and fair determination of the case,” the prosecutor said. He said the amendment of the charge sheet is lawful and will not prejudice the rights of the accused. He said the additional documentary evidence include letters to the Auditor General and Chief land registrar dated January 2018. Others are letters to Registrar of companies, senior chief Mathare North location, subcounty director of Education, CEO National CDF board dated August 2019 and letter from Ministry of Education. The court heard that when the evidence was reviewed, it became necessary to have the charge sheet amended and remove some accused persons. In the case the former MP, Kenga and eight others namely James Dola, Silvan Onyango, Pamela Achola, William Ogutu of Nyangina Enterprises, and Maurice Odhiambo of Komala Constructions, Jecinta Opondi and Accurate Construction and Engineering Works Limited are accused of embezzling public funds amounting to Sh48.9 million from the CDF meant for the construction of Kasarani Girls High School. They are said to have committed the offence between May 2008 and December 2012 within Nairobi.   -Edited by SKanyara