Kiambu County Assembly deputy speaker Philip Mubea has lost during the UDA nomination exercise against his rival Joseph Koigi. Mubea who was elected on the Jubilee in 2017 to represent Cianda Ward only managed to score 391 votes while his rival Joseph Koigi was announced winner after scoring 1,404 votes. It's only Mubea who was at the UDA party while his other Ward colleagues are defending their seat on Jubilee's party ticket. Kiambaa Wards comprises five wards. Others who were awarded the certificates include Kenneth Karanja(Muchatha ward) who scored 1358 votes and David Mwaura (Ndenderu Ward) who scored 1312 votes against his rival Fraciah Nyambura who scored 496 votes. Also, Peter Njiri Ruguru (Karuri ward) scored 681 votes against his rival Tabitha Wangui who scored 563 votes, and Josphat Kamanya (Kihara War)  who scored 594 votes. Speaking after being awarded the certificate, Koigi expressed confidence that he will win the seat against his rivals from other parties. He said despite the low voter turnout, the exercises were free and fair as there were no complaints that were reported. “I'm very happy with how the exercise was conducted and I’m optimistic that my people will elect me in August at the UDA party to represent them,” he said. Kihara Ward UDA aspirant Joseph Kamanya said the turnout was low but the exercise was free and fair. He said the locals would elect a leader who is passionate n serving his electorates. Area MP John Njuguna Kawanjiku was handed a direct party ticket and wasn’t subjected to the nomination. Kiambaa constituency is one of the highly contested in Kiambaa County following the recent election where the Jubilee party fronted Kiriri Njama. In Larger Kiambu County, Confusion rocked Senator Kimani Wamatangi and his arc rival Wainaina Jungle. Jungle has protested the results circulating on social media. Wa Jungle posted on his Twitter that the designated Kiambu presiding officers and returning officers were currently unavailable. "In a nomination exercise with less than 10% voter turnout, we only have three sub-counties out of 12 that have submitted the results, the second day running," he said.