The Mijikenda Council of Elders on Wednesday urged politicians to exercise tolerance and hold peaceful campaigns ahead of the August 9 polls. They warned politicians against polarising the nation, saying it is a recipe for chaos. Coordinator Tsuma Nzai warned politicians against divisive politics and instead urged them to preach peace as they sell their agenda to Kenyans. He said many people are now living in fear due to the inflammatory remarks made by some politicians. "Politicians must change tune, especially during this period. They must maintain peace because elections come and go. It is not a matter of life and death. The country is more important than an individual and what was witnessed after the 2007 general election should be not be witnessed again," Nzai said in Kilifi. He said the elders have a big role to play as they are agents of peacekeeping and reconciliation in ensuring that Kenya continues to be a prosperous nation. "We want to urge our political leaders to recognise our input towards the development of this nation. We believe we have a bigger role to play in moving this nation further and ensuring reconciliation is embraced," Nzai said. Mijikenda Council of Elders chairperson Mwinyi Mgwisho warned politicians against making inflammatory statements that could trigger chaos and tension. He said politicians who utter such statements should be charged. Mwinyi urged the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to tame politicians who utter inflammatory statements. "The NCIC should tighten its noose against politicians who utter statements that trigger violence. They should be charged to serve as an example. It’s high time for the commission to leave no chance against such culprits,'' he said. He, however, urged religious leaders to join hands in praying for the leaders and the nation. Last month, National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Samuel Kobia said the uncouth behaviour by the political class projects what is at the core of Kenyan society. “We have to be tolerant and to choose the path of unity instead of division. We need to make a tolerant society,” he said. He argued that the difference between a politician and an ordinary Kenyan is that the politicians are usually under pressure, which forces out their true character. "Put under similar pressure, ordinary Kenyans would behave in the same manner, spewing hatred against their neighbours and hiring people from their community," he said. “The corruption we see in politics, the hate speech and the inclination to tribal division is a reflection of Kenyan society.”  Edited by A.N