Shujaa face an acid test at Vancouver Sevens on Saturday following an underwhelming performance in Singapore last weekend. Innocent Simiyu's charges face the USA in their opening match at 8:31 pm. This will be the fourth meeting this season between the two sides with  Mike Friday's charges having the upper hand after winning three encounters. The Americans won in Singapore (12-10) and in Dubai (14-7 and 24-21 ) with Kenya winning 29-0 in the second leg in Dubai. Shujaa will then face a stern test of their credentials when they take on  Singapore champions Fiji at 12:04 am. It will be the second time the two sides are clashing with the Pacific Islanders having won 19-5 in Dubai. Kenya's final match will be against England at 3:07 am with the former colonial masters having won the initial two meetings — 33-5 and 10-5 respectively in Dubai in November. Simiyu said the side have had a good week in terms of preparation and was optimistic about Kenya's chances. “We were a bit unlucky last weekend in Singapore. The results did not go our way, especially in the pool stage but I am confident we can correct the wrongs of last weekend,” added Simiyu. The former skipper said they have improved their goal kicking which let them down last week and believes they are on the right track. "Our kickers have had practice this week on their goal-kicking and we hope we can be successful in that regard,” he said. Simiyu said the tournament in Vancouver will be ideal preparation for next weekend's Africa Cup Sevens in Kampala, which will act as a World Cup qualifier. "We are using it as a trial for the World Cup qualifiers and we want to improve in all our facets of play and be in peak condition by the time we arrive in Kampala,” added Simiyu. Skipper Nelson Oyoo said they will take the 'one game at a time' approach. “Our first match against the USA will be crucial matches between us and them are always close and we will be going all out for a win,” said Oyoo. The top two teams in the pool qualify for the Main Cup quarterfinals while the third and fourth place teams will drop to the classification matches. Kenya are currently placed 10th on the log with 36 points from five tournaments played. 