A stray wounded leopard with an arrow in its shoulder killed a herder in Sogon village in Baringo South on Monday. Amdany Cherop, 53, was rushed to Baringo County Referral Hospital-Kabarnet where he died on Tuesday of his injuries. Amdany said the leopard that attacked him had a broken arrow shaft protruding from its shoulder. It is believed it had been wounded by hunters 100km away. "I even tried to hold and push it back using the shaft but the huge, heavy animal overpowered me," Amdany was quoted as saying. “My husband was hard working and he was the sole breadwinner. I am yet to believe he is dead and gone,” widow Janet Jelagat said on Wednesday. She said he was herding his cattle in a nearby farm when the crazed animal jumped through the fence and attacked him around noon. “I heard him screaming for help and rushed with villagers to rescue him. We found him in a pool of blood. The leopard disappeared into nearby bushes," Jelagat said, weeping. The victim's brother Willy Cherop said the father of four suffered serious head injuries as well as hand injuries. He was rushed to the nearest Kabartonjo subcounty hospital, then to Iten hospital. He died while being treated at the county referral hospital in Kabarnet. Cherop said he might have died from the animal's poison, though leopards are not known to be poisonous. An autopsy will be performed. Cherop further said his brother was healthy and energetic before he was mauled. The family said Kenya Wildlife Services officers who visited their home on Tuesday told them to be patient while the victim is treated. They promised to investigate. Worried residents said the leopard could be one that escaped hunters who shot arrows and injured it last Friday at Cheplambus in Baringo Central, more than 100km away. Cheplambus hunters killed one of two leopards that had killed a goat and wounded four people. They are being treated at Eldama-Ravine and Kabarnet hospitals. County deputy warden David Cheruiyot's phone was switched off. Senior county warden Peter Lekeren is out of office seeking political seat. Drought has driven many predators from their natural habitats and residents are living in fear. Nominated MCA Francisca Cheburet called for swift action, accusing KWS of remaining silent while people were being massacred by stray leopards. “Why is the department keeping silent while innocent families continue losing their bread winners?” Cheburet asked. (Edited by V. Graham)