Boruma secondary school athletics camp is eyeing five slots in Kenya’s team to the World Under-20 Championships in August in Cali, Colombia. The camp’s head coach Valentine Orare and the team coordinator, Haron Onchong’a said the camp specializes in sprints, field events, and middle distance races. They thanked AK for including the camp among the 25 that are preparing prospective athletes for Cali, Colombia. He said athletes who missed out on last year’s World Under-20 Championships in Nairobi have vowed to make it this time. “We have been training here for a week and these young boys and girls are upbeat. From my assessment, I think we can have up to five in Team Kenya for Cali,” said a confident Orare. In an interview, Orare singled out Sarah Orobi (400m), Hillary Kipsang (800m), Martha Monyenche (long jump), Simon Buro (3, 000), Alexina Boera (800m), Vane Robert (100m), Sarah Elijah (400m hurdles), and  Pacifica Ongeri (javelin) as some of the talented athletes who are likely to make it to Team Kenya. Orobi failed to make the cut during last year’s World U-20 trials after she had a false start. She is, however, buoyant that she will qualify this time. “I’m keen to follow the footsteps of my former schoolmates Mary Moraa, Mercy Aketch, Loice Morara, and Vanice Nyagisera,” she said. Onchong’a said the camp faces a lot of challenges including a lack of field implements. “We have very good throwers and jumpers but we lack equipment because they are very expensive and this school can't afford them. Some of the athletes come from a poor background and they don’t have basic training gear,” said Onchong’a. The camp lacks implements for short put, discus, javelin, shot put, hurdles, and landing gear. “I’m appealing to Athletics Kenya and other well-wishers to help us with filed implements,” said Onchong’a. Orare trains the athletes together with former cross country and long-distance runner Phillip Mosima and Margaret Mong’are. Orare previously coached the defunct Mogonga PAG secondary school camp which collapsed following the transfer of former principal Haron Onchong’a from the school. He appealed to the government to honour its pledge to construct the Nyantika Maiyoro Sports Talent Academy. The Mogonga camp produced Olympic semifinalist Mary Moraa and All Africa games 400m hurdles champion Nyagisera among other upcoming athletes.