The waning days of former President Mwai Kibaki’s first term sowed seeds of tribal animosity, leading to the bloody 2007 elections, former Vice President Moody Awori writes. Awori served as Kibaki's second vice president after Michael Kijana Wamalwa died in 2003. He was also the Minister for Home Affairs and the Leader of Government business in Parliament. In his book, Riding on a Tiger, the former VP recounts that in the last days of Kibaki's first term, a cabal of powerful people and competing political interests sowed the seed of political animosity in the country. This segued the country into the deadly clashes of the 2007-08, he writes. The post-poll chaos resulted from a disputed election that saw Kibaki controversially declared winner and sworn in at night. Awori says that as Leader of Government Business, he stuck with state decisions that he knew were wrong. Those decisions gave him a guilty conscience. One of them was the constitution of then Electoral Commission of Kenya led by Samuel Kivuitu. “As terms of some of the members of the ECK were coming to an end, [Raila Odinga-led] ODM wanted to be involved in the appointment of the new members. They certainly did not want Samuel Kivuitu to be given another term,” he writes. He says that the government side also did not want Kivuitu in office and so he suggested that vice chairman Gabriel Mukele be elevated to chairman. But it was not to be. The government side decided to stick with Kivuitu and appointed other members of the commission who favoured the Kibaki side. This was the start of the 2007 election problems. “There was hue and cry from ODM. But we were the government so we bulldozed through with our choices, retaining Kivuitu as chairman. “These are some of the actions that leave one with a guilty conscience,” he writes. The new team remained contentious right up to the 2007 elections with tragic results. Another issue that watered the seed of discord a head of the impugned polls is the nomination of members to the East African Legislative Assembly. Awori led the government in single handedly picking nominees and bulldozing them through Parliament, provoking a bigger outcry. “Since there was already a wide chasm between ODM and government, and since the election campaign for 2007 had seemingly started, intoxicated with power, we simply nominated qualified people who were deemed to be friendly to us.” He says that on the day he presented the nominations to Parliament, Charity Ngilu and Cecily Mbarire charged at him angrily protesting the government action. Bifwoli Wakoli, the MP from Bumula, would wail that “Awori is a dictator” while running in the corridors of Parliament. Anyang’ Nyong’o and John Munyes protested by lodging a case in court to stop the process, to no avail. In reflection, Awori writes that the “actions of the two incidents of the membership of the ECK and the EALA were very high-handed and increased animosity [among leaders and ethnic groups]." “I went along with both decisions because I was Leader of Government Business in Parliament and the principal assistant to President Kibaki whose administration I was determined to help succeed by having its way, provided I felt in my heart that the actions were for the best of the country,” he writes. Edited by Henry Makori