Former nominated MCA Faridah Salim has been sworn in as the Kisumu county Executive Member for Roads, Transport and Public Works. Faridah was sworn in, in an event presided over by Governor Anyang Nyong’o on Tuesday. Nyong’o said he settled on Salim to manage the department after careful consultations and scrutiny of her background and leadership qualities. "We presented her to the County Assembly and the MCAs gave her a clean bill of health. We thank the Assembly for the wise decision." Salim is joining the county government to replace the former CECM Joyce Osogo who resigned to join politics. According to Nyong’o, she is not new to the Public sector having been a member of the Kisumu  City  Board. “Her appointment is also in keeping with our  Gender policy of inclusivity. Women must also play an important role in this government," he said. Nyong’o who congratulated Salim also cautioned her that there will be no time for a honeymoon.  Work starts now because a full tray awaits her in the office. “You are coming at a time the County Government is implementing several infrastructure projects and I expect you to provide policy guidelines and good leadership to help us deliver on the promises we made on roads, transport, and Public works." He noted that his government has done a great job in the opening and maintenance of new roads. Nyong'o said that he expects Salim to put more effort, especially into the supervision of the Road Maintenance teams, which is a new and unique phenomenon in the department. “You shall also help us implement the machine-based roads construction program which is already very successful," he said. Salim in her acceptance speech noted that she will ensure that their budget-making, implementation and procurement processes comply with the principle of prudent use of resources and accountability in the use of public funds. “We will endeavour to support our graduates of TVET to be given chances of internship in our projects in order to give them an opportunity to get first-hand experience in county delivery projects." She noted that they will ensure that the designs of the public transport facilities take into account the needs of Persons with Disabilities at the same time will endeavour to support the County Road Maintenance Teams to deliver better services to the people of Kisumu. “We will enhance our working relationship with KERRA, KURRA and KENHA who are our key partners in improving road networks. We will also welcome more partnerships that will further support us to deliver better services to our great County."