Beneficiaries of Wings to Fly and Elimu Scholarship programmes in Kisumu region have been urged to focus on personal and academic excellence Some 1,484 beneficiaries from the region on Thursday were mentored during an education and leadership congress. Equity Group Foundation will hold similar education and leadership congresses in 16 regions across the country. They will mentor 21,777 Form 1, 3 and 4 students for both Wings to Fly and Elimu programmes. In Kitale, they will host 1,484 scholars from seven counties. They include 635 girls and 536 boys who are pursuing their secondary education on full scholarships. Equity Group chief information officer Dennis Volemi said scholars should put into practice the lessons they have learnt during the conference. He told them to take up leadership positions when they go back to school. “Work hard, stay focused and tap into the knowledge and values that your parents, guardians and teachers continue to impart to you because we are all looking as our future leaders,” Volemi said. Kisumu county director of education Isaac Atebe said it is rare to find a partner who is ready to support 21,777 students with school fees and mentorship programmes. “The fruits of education are sweet and by working hard, we can all rise above the challenges that come our way,” he said. As part of the rigorous mentorship programme, students will engage with top corporate captains, government officials, religious leaders, teachers and scholars. They will hold interactive plenary sessions to help them be creative and innovative within their homes, schools and communities. The theme and daily programmes have been tailored to support scholars to unlock their potential and embrace valuable life skills such as flexibility and resilience. Equity Group Foundation’s Wings to Fly Education and Leadership Congresses have been held consistently for the past 12 years except in 2020 and 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The programme focuses on empowering scholars through education, mentorship and coaching. The beneficiaries are encouraged to give back to their communities. This year’s congress is happening simultaneously with the 2022 Wings to Fly Scholarship application and selection process. Last week, Equity Bank group chief executive officer James Mwangi asked parents and guardians to get application forms from the nearest Equity Bank branches or agents. “Commencing next week the application forms will be accessible to the applicants and thereafter we will embark on a rigorous selection process of the most deserving students.” Mwangi urged students who will be unsuccessful to enrol in public day secondary schools as tuition is fully sponsored by the government. “Should we face a situation like that of last year when we selected 10,000 scholars out of the 114,000 applicants, we appeal to parents to help their children get admitted in day schools," he said. "This will ensure they too can be in line with the government's 100 per cent secondary school transition policy.” Mwangi said by the end of the two years, 57,000 students will have benefitted under the programme up from the current 37,000. He said Sh50 billion have been spent towards the programme. Almost 98 per cent of the beneficiaries, Mwangi said, have completed high school education, with 86 per cent joining universities. Mwangi said 715 students have joined prestigious universities abroad. The programme sponsors tuition fees, uniforms, pocket money, transport and shopping for the beneficiaries.