UDA has expressed satisfaction with primaries in DP William Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard despite massive protests against alleged manipulation, rigging and disorganisation. The party’s officials and returning officers led by Benjamin Kibet and Paul Kiprop said the "largely successful"primaries had proved UDA was popular and organised yet it was the youngest party in the country. “All Kenyans have seen we are the most popular and organised party despite the few challenges we faced during the exercise,” Kibet said. Some aspirants protested against alleged massive irregularities, especially in Uasin Gishu, and parts of Nandi county. Officials said the protests were minor and would be resolved. Except for winners, most UDA aspirants rejected the results and filed complaints with the UDA National Elections Board. Most of the MCAs in the region, including Majority leader in Uasin Gishu Josphat Lowoi and chief whip Gilbert Tenai.lost to newcomers. In Uasin Gishu, which is DP Ruto’s home county, former envoy Julius Bitok rejected results of UDA primaries for the governor seat. Bitok formally petitioned the UDA elections board to order a repeat of the primaries as soon as possible. Politician Jonathan Bii was announced the winner with more than 71,000 votes while Bitok came second with about 51,000 votes. Former envoy Sarah Serem came third with more than 22,000 votes. Bitok said he had evidence that even the tallying of votes was tampered with because he won in five of the six constituencies in the county but the figures were altered. Bitok said he was also personally attacked by his rival who should also be disqualified on the basis of instigating violence. "We have credible evidence that we have given the party and we demand the primaries be repeated as soon as possible, "Bitok said. He said ballot peppers for some polling stations were burnt by goons and yet the party ignored the action and went ahead with the exercise. Bitok said the use of violence and voter bribery was also wide spread. He questioned how in some parts of Uasin Gishu the voter turn out was more than 80 percent while the overall turnout was generally less than 10 percent countrywide. Governor Jackson Mandago won the race for the senate seat in Uasin Gishu but his main rival for the UDA ticket, Kipchumba Karoli, rejected the results and also filed a complaint at UDA headquarters. Karoli is claiming massive rigging of votes by his rival and says his lawyers have written to UDA headquarters over the matter. We are aware that more thanSh6 million was used to alter figures in areas where I had a clear win. We will not accept such doctored results", Karoli said Mandago's team however immediately dismissed the claims as false the and cries of a sore loser. More than five MP aspirants in Turbo constituency also rejected results. They said the the results were altered, leading to chaotic tallying. Current MP for Turbo Janet Sitienei was declared winner. Her rivals led by David Songok and Willy Korir demanded a repeat of the primaries in the area, saying that otherwise they would seek alternatives. The party was also forced to has cancel its primaries for Moiben MP in Uasin Gishu county following protests by aspirants over anomalies. Benjamin Kibet who is the county deputy returning officer said the nominations would be repeated on Tuesday. He said the party would ensure it puts in place measures for a free and fair exercise. During the primaries in Moiben the winner's certificate was erroneously given to an aspirant who came forward during during tallying. Police used tear gas to disperse rowdy supporters who stormed the constituency tallying at TAC centre in Eldoret. "The repeat will only be for the MP seat and not any other," Kibet said. He was with area party county coordinator Paul Kiprop. More than 10 aspirants took part in the primaries for Moiben MP. At the tallying centre, there was confusion as two leading aspirants both claimed victory. Professional Phyllis Bartoo and former MP Joseph Lagat both claimed to have won the MP ticket for UDA in the area. Most of the MCAs in the region, including Majority leader in Uasin Gishu Josphat Lowoi, and chief whip Gilbert Tenai lost to newcomers. (Edited by V. Graham)