Detectives on Wednesday arraigned a middle-aged man for allegedly engaging in fraudulent dealings and conning unsuspecting Kenyans. Justin Mwirigi Murungi, an online fraudster who has been conning clients through a non-existing online gas cylinder shop was traced and nabbed after a number of Kenyans launched complaints about his dubious dealings. DCI reported that Robert Isiche Mzee, a resident of Langata, was one of Murungi's victims. " Mzee, through hard work had made some profits and was brainstorming on the best business to invest his hard-earned money. After much deliberations, he settled on setting up a gas vending business within the Kamulu area," DCI explained. November last year while he was shopping online for a place to source the cylinders, he came across a Facebook page advertising the business. "The page which goes by the name Heritage Gas Wholesalers had information detailing the business as dealing with gas cylinders, with several brands of cooking gas displayed," DCI added. According to DCI, the page also had a contact number for Kelvin Mwangi. Mzee dialled the number and made inquiries where he was assured of the availability of the gas cylinders. He was told that the company would deliver from their warehouse, located along Lumumba road, Makupa in Mombasa County. "Mzee went ahead and placed an order of 60 gas cylinders at a total cost of Sh354,000." The suspected conman thereafter sent a quotation and requested him to pay a commitment fee of Sh118,000 for the processing to be fast-tracked. After brief negotiations, he accepted to waive the commitment fee to Sh100,000 since Mzee was going to purchase the products in bulk. The agreement was sealed despite the fact that Mzee had no clue of who was behind the Facebook page or what he looked like. DCI reported that on December 3, 2021, Mzee transferred the money via M-Pesa to the Murungi's number. "He was to be paid the rest of the money upon delivery of the cylinders." A day and another passed by without Mzee receiving the products as earlier agreed, prompting him to read malice. Murungi made excuses when Mzee called and he eventually stopped picking up the calls and blocked Mzee. "Realizing that he had been duped, the complainant made a report at Lang’ata Police station." Detectives from DCI Lang’ata, enjoined with a team from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau-CRIB, applied detailed forensic analysis at the DCI National Forensic Laboratory and traced Justin Mwirigi Murungi. He was immediately arrested within Thika Township. A copy of a national ID card with the names of Kelvin Brian Mwangi was recovered from the suspect. The suspect appeared before the court facing multiple charges among them conspiracy to defraud, obtaining money by false pretence. He was also charged with being in unlawful possession of and unlawfully making use of the identification contrary to section 14(f) of Registration of persons Act Cap 107 Laws of Kenya. DCI has requested any other citizens conned by Murungi to visit DCI Langata and file their complaints.