The Institute of Primate Research has called on Kenyans to protect monkeys, saying the animals are key in the development of medicine. IPR director Gichuhi Mwethera says conservation of wild animals including monkeys is important as animals attract revenue from tourists besides acting as test grounds for new drugs. Monkeys are important models for testing new drugs before use in humans. "We appeal to all Kenyans to conserve forests where these animals live and also learn to co-exist with them," he said. Gichuhi says IPR has put in place a dedicated purpose-built animal facility and accompanying expertise to enable the institution to acquire and utilise non-human primates in its biomedical research work as animal models for preclinical testing of drugs. IPR’s research capacity and compliance with international best practices in animal acquisition, care, and use have enabled it to gain recognition by the United States National Institutes of Health Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare. "IPR is also recognised as a World Health Organization collaborating centre and is AAALAC accredited. It has a strong component of conservation for both flora and fauna," he said. IPR is run by one director who serves for a maximum of six years (two terms of three years each). The doctor adds that IPR has 250 staff out of which 69 are scientists (22 PhD), 81 technical staff, and the rest are animal care personnel and support staff, and interns. Its primate conservation field stations/sites are in Tana River, Mathews Range (Samburu), and Chyulu hills. During the Covid-19 pandemic,  Gichuhi said the institute was designated as a Covid-19 testing and research centre by the government in 2020. We have been testing Covid-19 and submitting the results to the Ministry of Health for the official release of the national results, he said. Gichuhi said the institute is currently formulating and developing a Covid vaccine candidate. The roles the institute serves are that it is a national primate centre for preclinical research and development of health products and technologies and conduct basic, pre-clinical, and translational research using non-human primates and other experimental animals in liaison with the relevant government agencies. It has also published scientific publications on basic and preclinical research using monkeys and other experimental products such as snakes, rodents, etc. IPR has contributed to early warning systems for emerging and re-emerging diseases. The institute has the capacity to keep 500 monkeys that have the ability to breed in captivity. These monkeys and other experimental animals such as rodents, snakes etc are for local and international research, especially in testing medical interventions. Provide national in-vitro fertilisation services for endangered wildlife of Kenya in liaison with relevant government agencies. "We have well established in-vitro fertilisation system used to test and improve IVF systems for humans and also used for conservation of endangered species," Gichuhi said. We conduct monkey surveys and advise KWS on the endangered species and promote efforts for conservation. "We have documented several endangered primate species including Tana Mangabey, White and red Colobus, etc," he said. It serve as a national research centre for venom and anti-venom including snake bite disease. IPR Research programmes are supported by the Kenya government, international partners: WHO, USAID, DFID, JICA, DFG, JSPS Japan among others. Institute of Primate Research  was started in Tigoni 1958 by Dr. LSB Leakey and later moved to Oloolua Forest, Karen occupying 450 acres within an indigenous forest in 1983. It has over the years, established comprehensive preclinical research programmes and projects driven by a highly trained pool of scientific and technical personnel and augmented by state-of-the-art research facilities.