The National Cereals and Produce Board has increased subsidised fertiliser to the Rift Valley following farmers' fury over shortages and high prices. Spokesman of the board Titus Maiyo said an additional 6,000 bags had in two days been moved to depots in the region to enable more farmers access the fertiliser. “We received complaints from farmers over the shortages but we have taken measures to move more quantities to the region. Much more is being taken to the depots this week," Maiyo said. The long rains have started in most parts of the region and many farmers, especially the small-scale ones, are now planting maize in the high producing counties of Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nandi and in the South Rift. The producers had also raised concern over the sudden increase in prices of the subsidised fertiliser from Sh2,800 to Sh3,000 per 50kg bag. But Maiyo said only DAP fertiliser was being sold at Sh2,800 per 50kg bag while other brands cost slightly more. Moiben MP Silas Tiren, who is also chairman of the Parliamentary committee on Agriculture said they are in consultation with the government and NCPB to ensure adequate supplies. Tiren and director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo had met with farmers at the NCPB depot in Eldoret where they expressed fear the fertiliser crisis may affect production. "We are in consultation with the government and suppliers to mop up all the available fertiliser that is available and ensure NCPB has adequate supplies," Tiren said. Maiyo said more suppliers were now given to the NCPB, which is mandated to handle the subsidised fertilizer. He  said companies supplying the fertiliser to the NCPB include OCP Kenya, Fanisi, Maisha Minerals, Minjingu Mines and Baraka Limited. The government is selling the subsidised fertiliser to farmers through NCPB, which has capped the maximum number of bags a farmer can buy at five. Agriculture CS Peter Munya had directed the amount of fertiliser be increased to 20 bags but supplies at the NCPB depots have been inadequate. Tiren said the government was yet to exhaust Sh5.7 billion set aside for the subsidies programme. The MP said the fluctuation in prices of the subsidised fertiliser may be due to the market price of the commodity. Due to shortages of fertiliser internationally, market  prices of the commodity have increased to about Sh6,000 per 50kg bag of DAP. The government subsidies have helped to reduce the price by almost half, giving a reprieve to small-scale farmers who have been unable to afford the fertiliser in the open markets. Tiren said although the agriculture sector was faced with serious challenges, there was hope that production would not drop drastically. "We thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for intervening to ensure at least we have some subsidised fertiliser to help, especially the small-scale farmers," Tiren said. Menjo said the government must prioritise the agriculture sector by putting in place policies and funding that will enable farmers maintain high food production. It is feared the fertiliser crisis along with delayed long rains may drastically lower  production this year. Last year farmers produced more than 40 million bags of maize but  counties say the production could decline to less than 35 million bags. (Edited by V. Graham)