Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee has embarked on a comprehensive nationwide exercise to discuss constitutional reforms with key stakeholders, chairman Aaron Ringera has confirmed. The Caretaker Committee kicked off its first series of meetings on Thursday in what it described as fruitful deliberations with representatives of Kenyan Premier League clubs. A meeting with the National Super League officials has been set for Friday before a final one with Division One clubs on Saturday. In an exclusive interview on Thursday, retired Judge Ringera emphasized the importance of having a document that sits well with the Constitution of the Land and the Sports Act. “We are engaging all stakeholders of FKF with a view to having an FKF Constitution which is compliant with the Constitution of Kenya and the Sports Act, 2013 and which encapsulates the values and principles of good governance, accountability, and transparency and honours gender equity and equality,” Ringera said. “The caretaker committee is sharing its thinking (in the form of a raw draft) with the stakeholders and getting their input into the matter. I cannot presume to go into details of work in progress,” he added. The head of the Caretaker Committee secretariat, Linda Ogutu, echoed Ringera's sentiments, saying they were keen on handing over a workable document to Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed at the end of the entire process. “We are inviting stakeholders to give views on proposed amendments and include their proposals to the document as part of public participation. We need a document that conforms to the constitution of Kenya, FIFA statutes, and the Sports Act,” Ogutu said. “The Caretaker Committee has a duty to ensure the FKF Constitution complies with the Sports Act. At the moment the existing document is flawed,” she added. Ogutu said they have identified some key shortcomings which will be addressed in the meetings. “We are facilitating the process to ensure members own the process by carrying out the amendment. They can suggest their own rules based on experience and administrative issues they've faced in the past.” The Caretaker Committee has also put in place other modes of stakeholders' engagement to cast its net wide, she said. “We have, for instance, established an official portal where stakeholders can propose changing issues we believe will cure the adversities the country's football is experiencing. “Key among them is the distribution of power in accordance with the Constitution so that we can have all the 47 counties involved in football administration under a national umbrella. However, seasoned football administrator Lordvick Aduda insists that the Caretaker Committee lacks the legal mandate to tamper with the FKF constitution. Aduda, who is eyeing the FKF presidency, pointed out that it is unlawful for the committee to lay ground for the election of a fresh team to replace the expelled Nick Mwendwa-led administration. “The Caretaker Committee neither has the right to interfere with the FKF constitution nor the mandate to call for elections,” Aduda said. 