At least 200 delegates will from Tuesday meet in Nairobi for a three-day international conference, more than two years since the first Covid-19 case was reported. The conference will commemorate the Covid-19 experience, review the best practices and lessons learned to prevent future pandemics and promote sharing and implementation of best practices. It brings together researchers, practitioners and educators to present and discuss Covid-19 experiences, practical challenges encountered and solutions adopted in the use of health promotion for the prevention and management of the pandemic. The conference organised under the theme, 'Promoting health during and beyond Covid-19', will be held at Kenyatta University. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta is expected to open the event. This comes as Kenya recorded 323,541 positive cases from a cumulative 3.5 million tests conducted since the first case was recorded in the country. Data from the Health Ministry shows 317,775 people have recovered from the virus, and 264,760 from the home-based care programme. The number of fatalities stands at 5,648. Globally, 499 million cases have since been reported with more than six million deaths. WHO Africa region has at least 8.2 million cases and more than 170,000 deaths. “This conference will examine challenges and opportunities that can be used to reduce exposure to Covid-19 and other related infections,” a joint statement by the ministry and Kenyatta University reads. “Further, it will generate knowledge that will be used to develop and implement policies that will contribute towards the reduction of future occurrence of Covid-19 and other related pandemics.” The conference is also expected to assess how the individuals, communities and the government managed the Covid situation and the role of health promotion in dealing with the pandemic and other related infections. Further, the conference will seek to create synergies for improved partnership planning and implementation programmes for increasing the prevention of a resurgence of Covid-19 and related infections. Another key area of focus will be coming up with future action plans for improving access to preventive and management of Covid-19 related care.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris