Communications Authority Director General Ezra Chiloba has said that the ongoing Sim Card registration is not new in the country. In his address to the media on Sunday, Chiloba said that the process is not re-registration or fresh registration exercise. "It is an opportunity for operators and their customers to validate respective details of registration. The exercise will address the documentation gaps that have become common place," Chiloba said. The DG said that the requirement to update subscriber registration details is being done primarily to protect consumers of telecommunication services – who is you and me. "Incidences of sim-boxing, financial fraud, kidnapping, terrorism and related crimes prevail in situations of compromised sim card registration processes. How can we win the war against such crimes if we cannot participate by ensuring that we have updated records." Chiloba added that the operators and subscribers must cooperate to ensure full compliance with legal requirements of Sim Card registration. "This is beneficial to both operators and subscribers. As a result, the exercise will continue until April 15, 2022 deadline." He said that the authority will provide further guidance depending on the outcome of the exercise to Kenyans. Kenyans have been asked to verify the status of their sim cards through the USSD code 106, which shall be used by all operators for verification. Also, he said that the regulations do not require subscribers to submit photos of themselves during registration or verification exercise. "However, records of subscribers must include identification documents such as the National ID, service cards for disciplined forces, passports and birth certification whichever is applicable." Chiloba has also reiterated that the move is not re-registration or fresh registration exercise. "It is an opportunity for operators and their customers to validate respective details of registration. The exercise will address the documentation gaps that have become common place." He added that the operators and subscribers must cooperate to ensure full compliance with legal requirements of Sim Card registration, adding that the move is beneficial to both operators and subscribers. According to the DG, the Kenya Information and Communications (Registration of SIM cards) Regulations, were gazetted on August 14, 2015. Chiloba also asked the telecommunication operators not to allow hawkers to sell sim cards to Kenyans.