Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua has confirmed that he had talks with Deputy President William Ruto on the possibility of working together ahead of the August 9, polls. Speaking during the MCC National Governing Council meeting in a Lavington hotel on Sunday, Mutua said, despite talks with Ruto, he has chosen to work with Raila. "Yes, I had conversations with Ruto and I want to thank him for reaching out .... but we are now working with Raila," Mutua said when asked about the prospects of working with Kenya Kwanza. On Thursday, Mutua revealed that he had received phone calls from Ruto and his allies and was willing to engage them on the possibility of sealing a work relationship deal. His remarks came after he and 8 Azimio parties on Wednesday issued demands to the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya AllIance after lamenting over being sidelined. Raila, however, summoned a meeting the following day with the group during which they ironed out their differences, something Mutua confirmed. "They have changed the structure of the way the document had been put. It was just three parties running the show, now we have a document that says we are all members and we will work and make decisions together." Mutua said they will now work with Raila adding that he is confident he will win the presidency. The Machakos Governor noted that the decision to work with the ODM leader was unanimously agreed by his party. "Truth be told, it is his time. Just like it was Nelson Mandela's time on May 10th, 1994,  this August 9, 2022 elections is Raila's time," he said. On why he chose Raila, Mutua said: "I have a soft spot for Raila. He is a good man full of charisma. Humble man despite his power and influence. He is not just a leader but I consider him as a friend and he looks at me as a friend. He is focused and knows where Kenya is supposed to be." The Machakos Governor in the same presser also expressed interest in being the ODM leader's running mate in the August 9, polls. "With the urging of my party members, I present myself for consideration for the position of deputy president to Jakom Raila Odinga," Mutua said.