Institutions of higher learning have several recommendations to improve the services of the sub-sector. The institutions, which have been faced with a cash crunch, received an increase during budget allocation, from Sh76.3 to Sh91.2billion. The recommendations will be presented during the 21st commonwealth conference taking place in Nairobi. Association of Commonwealth Universities secretary general Joanna Newman presented the priorities at the Technical University of Kenya on Monday. The recommendations, broken down into four themes, were the final product of consultations between universities within the commonwealth. “Widen access to higher education and lifelong learning by supporting digital transformation and increase funding for higher education, in recognition of its vital contribution to society,” she said. This, Newman said, would act as an effective means of supporting the sector while recovering from post-pandemic effects. “We will be advising ministers on revising technical and additional infrastructure to help students access education,” she said. The conference, which takes place every three years, was interrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. TUK vice-chancellor Francis Aduol highlighted the importance of the institution being part of the commonwealth universities. For the three years TUK has been part of commonwealth, two students have been awarded scholarships. “This is a very prestigious scholarship awarded by ACU. Not every university is participating and we are privileged,” Aduol said. Other priorities include the improvement of digital learning by supporting technology-based initiatives in the institutions. "Commit to addressing the prevailing digital divide through funding, financing public-private partnerships," she said. Higher Educations Loan Board CEO Charles Ringera previously told the Star that laptop loans would cost Sh20 billion. This is if every student in universities was to apply for the loans to secure a gadget, which cost Sh44,000 at the least. The stakeholders also called for a commitment to meet international benchmarks of spending on education from primary school all the way to tertiary institutions. The conference brings together 54 ministers and is themed 'Rethinking Education for Innovation, Growth and Sustainability post-Covid-19.' It will take place on Wednesday and Thursday, and in attendance will be Education CS George Magoha. Ministers and stakeholders taking part in the conference will address issues and come up with solutions to be implemented by other nations.  (edited by Amol Awuor)