KCB Rugby Club technical bench is in South Africa for a 10-day coaching and technical preparation training at the High-Performance Centre in Cape Town. The eight-time champions have a partnership deal with Western Province Rugby, which helps upskill the club's players and have been offering technical support to the club for the last five seasons. The five-man team comprising head coach Curtis Olago, Andrew Amonde, assistant coach Mark Mshilla, Brian Otieno and Brian Omondi will share ideas with the coaching and support staff of DHL Stormers Rugby Union team and DHL Western Province Rugby in search of improvements within the two squads. They will also observe DHL Western Province Team preparations, training and meetings ahead of their Currie Cup Tournament.  The team will also attend all DHL Western Province home games at the DHL Newlands Stadium. The bankers relinquished the Kenya Cup crown, losing 23-18 to Menengai Oilers in the semifinals and lost in the Enterprise Cup final to bitter rivals Kabras 9-6 to finish trophyless for the first time since 2014. Olago said: “We look forward to incorporating what we will learn at our club as we seek to bounce back for next season." The tactician said the club will focus on the start of the Sevens circuit next month where they will fight to defend the title. "The Sevens circuit is around the corner and it's what we are looking forward to as we hope defend the title," added Olago. The team will join other KCB RFC players including Darwin Mukidza, Samuel Asati, Jacob Ojee, Peter Kioko, Vincent Onyala, Brian Wahinya, and Patrick Ouko — who are currently with the Kenya 15s team participating in the Currie Cup competition. Elsewhere, Daystar Falcons are the KRU Nationwide Champions after defeating Zetech Oaks 30-13 in the final at the RFUEA grounds on Saturday. David Williams scored two tries with Cedric Oronje, Eric Miheso and Derrick Oyoo adding one apiece. John Oilele weighed in with a penalty and conversion. Both teams will play in the 2022/23 KRU Championship which is the second tier of Kenyan club rugby.