Former Gatundu North MP Kigo Njenga has won the just concluded United Democratic Alliance party nominations. Kigo garnered 12,092 votes trouncing his main competitor Bernard Karanja who got 5,736 votes in the Thursday primaries that were characterised by low voter turnout. The former lawmaker is expected to stage a spirited comeback as he seeks to unseat the incumbent Wanjiku Kibe, who will be vying on a Jubilee Party ticket. Kigo was trounced by Wanjiku in the 2017 general election.  Some 39,447 Gatundu North residents voted for Wanjiku as their MP while Kigo, who vied as an independent candidate, came in a distant third with 8,124 votes. Former area MP Clement Kung’u Waibara was second with 9,314 votes. Speaking after being announced the winner on Friday, Kigo hailed UDA party leadership for upholding democracy, adding that the exercise was free and fair. “This is a big win for us and we will now focus on uniting our people ahead of the August 9 general election. I am optimistic that we will win with a landslide,” Kigo said. In Juja subcounty, the incumbent George Koimburi won the ticket after garnering 6,790 votes beating his closest rival Prof Joseph Kang’ethe alias Mustard who got 4,257 votes. Koimburi won the Juja by-election on May 18, 2021, following the death of former MP Francis Munyua alias Wakapee,  on a People’s Empowerment Party. He garnered 12,159 votes and floored Wakapee’s widow Susan Njeri who vied on a Jubilee Party ticket garnering 5,746 votes. Speaking after being announced the winner, Koimburi said he is ready to work together with his competitors in UDA to consolidate the party’s support in the region ahead of the August polls. “I welcome on board those who were competing with me so that we can work together for the sake of our people and to ensure we retain the seat come August 9,” he said. Koimburi is however set to face a stiff competition from Aloise Kinyanjui, brother to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who will be seeking to unseat him on a Jubilee ticket. In Thika constituency, there were no nominations for the MP seat as the party has already given former MP Alice Ng’ang’a the ticket. This is after other aspirants shied away from competing for the UDA ticket. Ng’ang’a is expected to battle it out with her closest rival David Kariuki Ngari who will be vying on a Jubilee Party ticket. In Ruiru constituency preliminary results indicate incumbent Simon King’ara is leading with 4,688 votes against nominated senator Isaac Mwaura’s 2,260 votes. However, UDA party elections board has ordered for a repeat of the nominations at Mwiki Primary School, St Augustine and Chief’s camp polling stations in Mwiki ward which were marred by chaos. At the same time, Mwaura has disputed the primaries saying the entire exercise in the constituency was null and void. He claimed there were massive rigging incidences abetted by security officers in favour of his competitor. “Most of these polling stations were opened at 3pm thereby denying our voters a chance to participate in the exercise. There was also leakage of ballot papers. Violence was also introduced in my strongholds especially in Mwiki ward. We are demanding for serious investigations, we have already appealed to the party. The results being read here are null and void,” Mwaura said at the Ruiru tallying centre. He claimed there are individuals within the government who are working in cahoots with police officers to ensure the strong UDA supporters do not see the light of the day.   -Edited by SKanyara