Global organization “We Don't Have Time” which was founded by Ingmar Rentzhog in 2016 is the largest climate social network for climate review platforms, with a membership of more than 64,000 users and over 160 partners. Speaking to one of the international media houses, the founder and CEO of the organization opined that “the election of former US president, Donald Trump,” is what drove him to start the organization, when he realized that global leaders will not solve the problem of climate change. It is the collective responsibility of the global citizens that could bring the greatest positive impact on the climate challenge. With that, he opined of an idea that would collectively enable everybody in the world, no matter their status in the society, to raise their voices and be heard, to voice their concern and push others to do what was right for the universe. And indeed, the aspirations of the founder and CEO have paid off; today “We Don't Have Time” has grown into a global movement pushing for climate solutions at an individual, organization, societal and government levels. As a pointer to this growth, the organization has established branches in Sweden, Washington and Kenya (African office). From the name itself, we don’t have time is a warning to us all, we either change or perish, change our lifestyle, our utilization of natural resources or we push ourselves to extinction. The world is currently facing a climate crisis. The climate situation brought about by rising global temperatures puts humanity at the risk of a global environmental disaster. The rising sea levels, drought, unpredictable weather patterns, flash floods and melting glaciers among other effects are a reality that we are getting used to today. Instead of out governments and organizations waking up to the reality of how we got to where we are, we have focused more in treating the symptoms rather than resolving the root cause of the problems we face today. For years, environmentalists have warned on the rooming danger of continued environmental pollution, and even today when we actually live in the reality of this danger, we have failed to adjust our lifestyles and economies to this reality. It is for this reason that “we don’t have time” call on you to rise up, and take the simplest stem that you can towards raising the attention of your government and organizations by speaking up and telling them that time is running out to put a halt to the rising global temperatures. And this you can do by joining the movement by either downloading the “we don’t have time” app on playstore or by signing up on their website at www.wedonthavetime.org We Don't Have Time works on three pillars of reviews: Climate love, Climate idea, and Climate Warning. Climate love reviews get to appreciate organizations, individuals, and governments doing things that are friendly to the environment; an organization that manufactures electric cars is an example of an organization that deserves climate love reviews as it encourages the reduction of carbon emissions in the environment. Climate idea reviews suggest to organizations or even governments a new way fostering a more sustainable environment if implemented. Climate warning urges organizations or governments doing things that impact the environment in a negative way to stop and embrace other sustainable practices. An organization that uses fossil fuel as its energy is given a climate warning highlighting the impact fossil fuel has on the environment. When a review is targeted to a particular company, “We don't have Time” engage with them through its seasoned climate advisors, and this has seen several international companies engage on how best  more sustainable economy can be built and enhanced. The organization awards the best review in each of the three categories annually with a cash prize of 2,500 USD. The Kenyan office, located in Thika town, was launched in 2020. It has made incredible efforts to create climate awareness within and outside the country; over time, it has increased its presence to Uganda, Tanzania, Nigeria and other African countries. In February this year, the Kenyan office honored an invitation by the Tanzanian minister for mining, Dr. Doto Biteko, the invitation which was to discuss creating awareness of sustainable mining methods in Tanzania. The country, which is hugely endowed with minerals and is the third major producer of Gold after Ghana and South Africa, has been adversely affected by climate change, to which mining activities have hugely contributed. The office was honored to get the opportunity to create awareness which went a long way to heal our planet. However, the African office has held some of the world's remarkable environmental events. Last year it hosted the 26th conference of parties (COP26) world summit event at Mount Kenya University's main campus as one of the hubs broadcasting the proceedings from Glasgow, Scotland. This year it will be joining the world in celebrating earth day at Mount Kenya University still at the main campus on 22nd April; the event will be broadcasted through the We Don't Have Time online application platform. Also, the African office is looking forward to hosting COP 27, which is scheduled to take place from 8th to 22nd November this year in Egypt, and many other future global climate-based events. Besides creating awareness, the organization works with other like-minded organizations in climate conservation activities such as tree planting and clean-ups; we can create a more habitable planet through these activities. The Climate crisis is real, and the only way we can remedy this is by joining hands and walking together in offering solutions. We welcome individuals and organizations to be part of the solution by signing in to the “We Don't Have Time” platform through the link  www.wedonthavetime.org or download the “we don't have Time” app on play store or Appstore. Earth is all we have in common so let's protect it. Together we are the solution to the climate crisis. You can reach us through Twitter: @WeDontHaveTime or @WeDontHaveTimKE Instagram: @wedonthavetime0 Email: kenya@wedon’thavetime.org Office Number: +254 723240736