Former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi has urged the electorate not to gamble with their votes and instead vote wisely during polls. Abdullahi, who spoke in Wajir town, on Sunday said voting the right crop of leaders meant improved service delivery. The former governor seeks to recapture the seat he lost to Governor Mohamed Abdi in 2017. Abdullahi, who will contest on an ODM ticket, said he is still energetic and committed to serve and improve the economic and social well-being of residents. He says he is ready to restore hope and repair county's ailing health sector. “The secret to achieving a healthy Wajir is through your votes and trusting in my pledge of service as your governor. "You enabled my team led by Health executive Rukia Maalim Kahiye and Health Committee chairperson Issack Maow to sustain a healthy county. We want to pick up from where we left,” Abdullahi said. He said during his reign the county oversaw the first caesarean delivery in July 2016 at Habaswein Subcounty Hospital. "We also established, equipped and staffed more than a hundred dispensaries and health facilities,” Abdullahi said. The former governor said they also initiated the first psychiatric unit at Wajir Referral Hospital. “We increased theatres in Wajir from one to at least six including Bute, Habasweyn, Girftu, Eldas and Tarbaj. As well as managed to reduce the maternal mortality ratio from 1680 to 580. This we did in a span of five years,” he said. Abdullahi said the county executive who succeeded him did not build on the transformational progress he initiated. He attributed the failure to political squabbles among some of the current leaders, which led to the impeachment of Governor Abdi. The aspirant however said residents should not to be discouraged by such setbacks. Abdullahi said he will set up a safe medicine storage warehouse to curb drugs shortage and enhance the management of essential drugs. He said matters health cannot be compromised. The race has also attracted incumbent Ahmed Mukhtar and Mohamed Abdi, Senator Abdullahi Ali and former environment CAS Mohamed Elmi. Other new entrants are Ugas Sheikh and Dr Hassan Mohamed. Both of whom are striving to form a line-up that can help put up a formidable challenge. Wajir has a population of close to 750,000 and 160,000 voters according to 2017 IEBC figures. The county is inhabited by the Degodias, Ogaden and the Ajuran with the former being the majority. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)