Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici has told Governor Anne Waiguru to enumerate what her administration has achieved since 2017. She said Kirinyaga residents have a right to be told how the current administration has utilised their funds. “You gave promises to the people of Kirinyaga that you would improve their livelihoods by improving agriculture, health, education and other devolved functions," she said. "A time has come for you to present your scorecard to the people you serve. This is despite your desire to clinch a higher political position.” Waiguru is seen as a likely running mate of Deputy President William Ruto in the August presidential polls. Ngirici, who is seeking to take over from Waiguru, was speaking on Saturday in Wamumu, Mwea. She said if elected governor, she would push for a financial audit of the current administration to ensure public funds were utilised well. Ngirici also accused some leaders, whom she did not mention, of pretending to be mindful of the people simply because they want seats. “They now are pretending to stand by you because they want your votes. Why is it that they didn’t attend to their duties while you needed them the most?” she asked. Ngirici said her track record speaks for itself, adding that she has used her personal resources to help residents. She urged residents to elect her as their third governor as she is the best bet to solve their problems. Ngirici pledged to improve the ailing health sector by among other factors ensuring that sacked medics are reinstated. More than 300 medics were sacked after participating in an illegal strike in 2019. Ngirici also said if elected, her administration would improve ECDE education by motivating staff through good pay. She also promised to expand the overseas scholarship programme in which a number of residents are pursuing their education in other countries. Ngirici said 300 students are in the process of registering under the programme to pursue their education outside the country. “We want to empower our young people through education so that once they come back they will be resourceful to our county. Under the programme, we have helped many students to study in Hungary, Britain, Israel and America. This is through a partnership between my office and various stakeholders,” she said. Edited by A.N