A fatal accident occurred in the Bukembe area along the Webuye-Malaba highway where a speeding saloon car hit two people who were walking on the sidelines of the road leaving one dead and another injured. Addressing the press at the scene on Tuesday, Elizabeth Saenyi, an eyewitness, said the deceased, Everlyne Wesonga, was on her way home after picking a bunch of bananas for her business at Bukembe market. The deceased is a businesswoman at Bukembe market. “After Mrs Wesonga left here shortly I heard a blast. When I rushed to the scene, I saw her lying beside the road in a pool of blood,” he stated. The saloon car was ferrying petrol from Malaba to Webuye's direction. The driver is said to have fled the scene and went to report the matter to the Bukembe police station. While confirming the incident, Bukembe Sub-location assistant chief Annette Wanyonyi told the star that the deceased is a resident in her area of jurisdiction adding that she is sad about the fatal accident. “The lady lying there is a resident of my Sub-location, I am very sad for losing such an industrious woman, she is a single mother and breadwinner in her family,” Ms Wanyonyi said. She noted that the driver who was involved in the accident is a businessman at Bukembe market. He sells petrol to boda boda riders. “With the fuel crisis that is rocking the country, I guess the driver was rushing to take petrol to his clients who were waiting for him at his business centre at Bukembe market,” she said. She asked the residents to be careful when using the busy Webuye- Malaba highway. Wanyonyi added that the area has become a black spot urging the government through the department of roads to install bumps on the road. “We have lost more than six people through road accidents in this area,” she said. She said the injured was taken to Bungoma county referral hospital for urgent medical attention. The body of the deceased was picked up by police officers from Bungoma police station and taken to Bungoma referral mortuary for preservation as the police launched investigations.