Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has declared that he will seek re-election on an independent ticket. Abdi who was eyeing to clinch the seat on a Jubilee ticket, was locked out after the party handed the certificate to Dr Hassan Mohamed on Monday. Former CAS Mohamed Elmi was also locked out. The award ceremony was graced by the party’s director of elections Kanini Kega and local leaders among them Eldas MP Aden Keynan and Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi. On Wednesday, Abdi who was elected on a Jubilee ticket, took to his Facebook page to declare that his name will be on the ballot. He said the ultimate decision of who will become the next governor lies with the electorate. “Following the shambolic Jubilee Party nominations, I wish to express my utmost dissatisfaction with the outcome." "In that regard, I wish to declare my interest to seek re-election on an independent ticket,” the governor said. Abdi said they expected the party's national election board to either hold primaries or settle for a consensus. “Unfortunately, we were neither invited nor contacted by the party regarding the procedure of the nomination process," he said. The governor said he chose to defend his seat as an independent after consultations with the electorate. "I chose this alternative knowing that the great people of Wajir shall make the ultimate voting decision as enshrined in the constitution. A decision, I strongly believe will be to my advantage," he said. The governor said he will soon unveil a strong formidable and all inclusive line up that will ensure victory in August polls. Earlier, Abdi defended his record saying were it not for court cases and constant political squabbles, his administration would have achieved much more. He said his administration still managed to initiate and improve projects in key sectors of health, water, education and infrastructure. Others in the Wajir gubernatorial race include incumbent Ahmed Mukhtar, former governor Ahmed Abdullahi, Senator Abdullahi Ali and former environment CAS Mohamed Elmi and Ugas Sheikh. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)