Churches and civil societies have identified four areas that are likely to be violence hotspots in the lake region during the August polls. The Western Kenya Peace Initiative conducted a survey which said borders of Vihiga and Nandi, Kakamega and Nandi, Kisumu and Vihiga and Mount Elgon in Bungoma county could witness violence before, during and after the election. The group also singled out Sondu along the Kericho-Kisumu border, Maseno on Vihiga-Kisumu border, Kuvasali along Kakamega-Nandi border, Koibarak along Vihiga-Nandi border and Mt Elgon as the specific hotspots. The survey highlights different political affiliations, poor distribution of resources, existence of criminal gangs, multiple ethnic groups, grievances among the local communities and inflammatory statements that can stir ethnic hatred. “The areas identified as potential violence hotspots could however experience peace if politicians undertake to preach peace and avoid use of language that could inflame ethnic tensions,” Rev Oscar Otieno said. He is the group leader of the Anglican Development Services. Western Kenya Peace Initiative is working closely with the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and National Intelligence Service in ensuring peace prevails. The lobby said strengthening collaboration and co-ordination of peace actors and political players as the key intervention to forestall eruption of violence. “We want to create capacity for mediation, arbitration and negotiation among community leaders, youth groups, security officials and politicians," Otieno said in Vihiga on Sunday. The organisation said it will call out specific politicians whose recent utterances border on hate speech and incitement. "We have had talks and as religious leaders, we wish that the politicians would tone down their reckless utterances to avert violence in areas that are likely to experience violence." The group has initiated talks with political players, including aspirants, to sensitise them to preach peace. The government was blamed for failing to act on early warning signs before the 2007-08 post-election violence that claimed more 1, 300 people. Liston Ayodi from Rural Services Programme, one of the outfits working under the Western Kenya Peace Initiative, said continuous engagements was one of the best ways to prevent violence. “We will be meeting frequently to exchange information and agree on the best way of dealing with emerging conflict dynamics and governance issues in the larger Western region," Ayodi said. According to Ayodi, Kenyans tend to lose an average of one year in every five-year election cycle because of election-related activities, including campaigns, election process and post-election violence.  (edited by Amol Awuor)