Defending champions Chipu open their Barthes Cup campaign against Uganda on Saturday at Nyayo Stadium. Kenya are seeking to win the title for the third consecutive time after triumphs in 2019 and 2021 and will be buoyed by the home crowd. The tournament, which serves as Africa’s U20 Championship, will feature eight teams and will be played on a knockout basis over three days. There will be four quarterfinal fixtures on Saturday with the semifinals set for April 13 at the same venue. The title decider will be played on April 17. Former champions Namibia will get the tournament underway against Cote d’Ivoire in the opening fixture before paving way for the second clash between Tunisia and Zimbabwe. Madagascar, losing finalists in 2021, will take on Zambia in the day’s third fixture. Meanwhile, this year’s tournament is open to spectators. Regular tickets will retail at Sh300 with VIP tickets retailing at Sh1,000 per match day. Further ticketing information will be released in a subsequent communication. Kenya Rugby Union Director of Rugby Thomas Odundo said preparations are almost complete with teams expected to start arriving Thursday. “Our preparations are almost complete and we would like to thank the government for their support. We also wish to encourage the fans to turn up in large numbers and cheer the team,” said Odundo. Elsewhere, KRU Board has appointed Kikechi Kombo to the position of acting Vice-Chairman. Kikechi will serve in the capacity until the next election. According to a statement, Kikechi’s appointment is in line with clause 10.2.2 of the KRU Constitution and comes after immediate past vice chairman Thomas Opiyo vacated the post following the expiry of his term. “Opiyo has been a tireless and dedicated servant of the game through his playing years, representing Kenya in both codes of the game. As an administrator, he has served as a club chairman at Nondescripts before assuming his immediate former role as vice chairman of the KRU,”  the statement read. “We would also like to inform our affiliates and stakeholders that the Sports Registrar has granted KRU affiliates a further two-month extension to comply with the provisions of the Sports Act before holding elections,” the statement added. Consequently, the remaining KRU office-bearers remain in place until the elections are held within the prescribed period.