Kenya Kwanza Ambassadors (KKA ) have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to be neutral and avoid being biased in the ongoing campaigns. The team, led by KKA chairperson Salma Ochieng, told Uhuru to be non-discriminatory by allowing a fair and level playing field to all the candidates seeking the presidency. They were speaking during a press briefing at Convent International Hotel in Nairobi on Friday. Ochieng said that the head of state should exercise the principle of good governance and uphold the constitution by not demonising his deputy William Ruto in favour of his preferred aspirants. “The President is a symbol of National Unity and he, therefore, should focus on unifying the country,” she noted. She was rallied behind by KKA Secretary-general Bruno Situma who said that violence should be condemned objectively and not subjectively. “Violence should not be tolerated and our actions should not be misconstrued such that we make it appear like some attacks should be of National importance and of great Public Interest while others are of less concern,” he said. Situma implored upon leaders to allow the relevant bodies mandated to protect peace in the country carry out their roles effectively. “We acknowledge the independence of the Ministry of Interior, the DCI, NCIC,The Judiciary among others and urge leaders to recognize their efforts in carrying out their roles devoid of intimidatory utterances,interference and blackmail,” he said. He encouraged the constitutionally mandated bodies to do so with utmost honesty while serving everybody equally and free from any coercion. The team condemned the culture of violence which only comes about during the campaign period and advocated for peace, love and unity ahead of the polls. KKA castigated the attack of an aspirant from Mombasa county by assailants, the stoning of Raila’s chopper and the attack of Ruto’s political convoy which happened last year in November. Latifah Tago, director of Youth Affairs, KKA, called upon youths to stand firm and avoid being taken advantage of by political leaders. “Let us work together as youths to condemn any forms of violence and against selfish politicians who take advantage of us for political mileage. We have a long future and Kenya is bigger than anyone of us,” she noted. Religious leaders were urged to take the frontline in condemning negative vices in society,call for National prayers as well as bring all leaders together in unity.