Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has condemned the proposal to regulate churches in Kenya. Kalonzo argued that regulation of churches would go against the Constitution and amount to the violation of human rights. Kalonzo said the country has come a long way in trying to make progress under Constitution saying everyone has rights. "For example the right to worship God in any form. So, when I hear people say churches should be regulated, I say go read your Constitution 2010," Kalonzo said. The former vice president spoke on Saturday when addressing mourners during the burial ceremony of former Machakos MP Johnesmus Mwanza Kikuyu at AIC Muvuti in Machakos County. Kalonzo hailed praises on the former legislator describing his as a champion who once saved the Machakos Golf Club land from being grabbed . "Kikuyu saved Machakos Golf Club, it was being grabbed and he refused. Today, Machakos Golf Club is still there," he said. Kikuyu was a champion, champion of people's rights and he has not left a lot of wealth," Kalonzo added. The former VP said Kikuyu's selfless service to the public led to him losing his seat when he was imprisoned for six months. "Kikuyu said famously that one of these days you will see Paul Ngei become a Vice President, himself a Minister and Kibaki President. "It's only that he didn't become a Minister himself and Ngei Vice President. But, as smaller Ngeis, we eventually became vice President. Kibaki became President of the Republic of Kenya," Kalonzo said. "So, we are celebrating a brother who fought for the rights. Kikuyu is here resting with our fore fathers as a champion, " Kalonzo added. Kikuyu passed away on the evening of Sunday, April 3 while receiving treatment at a Machakos hospital. He was 70 years old. Kalonzo said him and the late former MP "I saw mheshimiwa Kikuyu last on September 2, 2019. I came to see him while he was sick," Kalonzo said. "It's good for leaders to always create time to visit the sick. And even when he went to hospital, he sent a message to me.