A family in Athi River, Machakos County is crying for justice following their daughter’s controversial death in an accident along Mombasa road. The family claims that police officers were trying to hide the truth in circumstances surrounding Amani Makau’s death. The seven – year - old girl according to eyewitnesses died after she was ran over by a lorry at Lukenya area near Simba Cement Company in Athi River in Machakos County on Wednesday evening. Amani was reportedly killed by the lorry on the spot. She was a PP2 pupil in a local school within Athi River subcounty. The lorry’s registration number was KCY 204D while the salon car which weighbridge officials used to chase it was a KDG 075K. The deceased’s father Dominic Makau, 31, said he received information on his daughter’s demise from some witnesses who know his family members. “I had sent my family somewhere and the girl was in company of her mother Virginia Kamanthe when the incident occurred,” Makau told the Star on the phone on Friday. “On their way back after they had crossed the busy highway and as they were headed to board a boda boda to take them home, my wife mysteriously escaped while our daughter was killed by the lorry,” he added. Virginia cheated death but sustained minor injuries and was admitted at Shalom Community Hospital where she was treated and later discharged. Kamanthe, 26, said Amani was their only child. “I left the scene of accident after I was called by doctors at Shalom Community Hospital but found that my daughter had already died,” Makau said. Police said the driver of the lorry was being pursued by officers from Mlolongo Weighbridge at 5.30pm. A police officer, who did not want to be named said weighbridge officials who were chasing after the lorry threw spikes on the road leading to the accident. “The weighbridge officers caused the accident. They threw spikes on the road and the lorry rolled, leading to the child’s death. The child died on the spot,” the officer told the Star. The lorry, which was ferrying bags of cement, was suspected to have been overloaded. The lorry’s driver lost control of the vehicle leading to the fatal accident. The vehicle's front left tire was pricked by the spikes making its driver lose control. The wreckage was towed to Athi River police station pending inspection. The child’s body was taken to Shalom Community Hospital mortuary pending an autopsy scheduled for Saturday, April 16 at Shalom Community Hospital mortuary. Makau called on well-wishers to help them raise funds to help with daughter's burial.  He said the daughter will be buried at his Kinanie home.