Ford Kenya Secretary General Chris Wamalwa has picked former high school principal Bethwel Kirior as his running mate for the August 9 gubernatorial election. Kirior, 54, holds a degree in Botany and Zoology and a Diploma in Education. He has served as a Principal in various secondary schools and retired last year while heading Tobolwa Secondary School in Uasin Gishu County. Speaking on Thursday during the unveiling of the deputy governor nominee, Wamalwa  said he settled on the school administrator after wider consultations with the Nandi Kapurwo community. The MP thanked the clan for offering to stand with him in his quest to succeed outgoing Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba. He said talks are ongoing with other Kalenjin communities including the Pokot, Sengwer, Kipsigis and Sabaot to consolidate the larger Myoot community vote into one basket. He said he will endeavor to form an all inclusive government comprising all communities since Trans Nzoia is a cosmopolitan County should he win the election. "We shall try all our best to redeem the lost glory of this great county for the benefit of all communities residing here," Wamalwa said. The MP spoke at his campaign centre in Milimani estate, Kiminini subcounty where he revealed that he will unveil a strong lineup of contestants who will help champion rapid development in Trans Nzoia County. "I will be unveiling a strong line up of MCA, senate, woman representative, my deputy and other members of the national assembly in the next meeting with the Myoot elders." Former Senator Henry Tiole Ndiema will fly the Ford Kenya flag in the senate race. The Kiminini MP said agriculture, health, infrastructure and sporting activities will form part of his transformative agenda should he be elected into office. Wamalwa will fly the Ford Kenya flag in the race to succeed the incumbent Khaemba alongside other aspirants. The seat has attracted three other candidates in the elections. They include former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya who will be running on the Democratic Action Party Of Kenya ( DAP K). Others are Moses Khaoya of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) and Bishop Jimmy Nduruchi who will be vying as an independent candidate. However, Khaoya’s candidature hangs in the balance after ODM leader Raila Odinga said during a campaign rally in Trans Nzoia two weeks ago that Natembeya was the Azimio One Kenya gubernatorial flag bearer for Trans Nzoia County. Natembeya and Bishop Nduruchi have not named their running mates though word has it that the former regional commissioner has already identified someone from the Sabaot Community. Nduruchi told the Star on Thursday that his quest to become Trans Nzoia governor is unstoppable. “I have observed over a long period of time the needs, dreams and aspirations of the people of this county which are far from being met," he said. "That is the basis on which I'm going for this seat,” he said. Nduruchi said his manifesto will tackle issues such as unemployment, housing problems, better schools and health. He said he will help in "mobilising both public and private housing stock."