The Government of Kenya is keen on incorporating 11 counties as viable routes for future WRC Safari Rally. While making the announcement Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed noted that they have considered three clusters of counties for upcoming Safaris. “We are going to make a proposal to interested counties to ensure they have the capacity to host rallying and accomodation for our guests,” Amina said. The move follows last year’s confirmation by the World Governing Body, FIA  to extend the hosting of the iconic Safari in the country through to 2026. This year’s WRC Safari Rally Kenya will revolve around Naivasha and its environs between June 23 and 27. The counties of Laikipia, Nyandarua, Meru and Nyeri are in cluster one while Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi and Taifa Taveta in the coast are the second category. Nairobi, Kajiado and Machakos are placed in the third group. CS Amina added that several government infrastructure projects like the Dongo Kundu Bypass in the coast and the Nairobi Expressway will go a long way in supporting the ambitious Safari Rally initiative. Speaking during the WRC Safari Rally sponsors briefing, Amina explained: “As we roll out these clusters of counties, we’ll definitely consider other circuits in the western part of the country. You may have possibly heard murmurs from some counties about hosting the event in Naivasha. We will include only counties who can guarantee capacity since we do not want to water down our standards.” WRC Safari Rally CEO Phineas Kimathi called on sponsors to consider the diverse sponsorship opportunities which include teams and competitors, branding as well as several disciplines of motorsports in the country. “Being a world event, the Safari offers sponsors irresistible brand visibility across the globe given the huge number of fans following the event globally,” Kimathi said, adding: “The essence is to have total commitment across the board.” During the event, CFAO Motors Kenya, exclusive dealers of Toyota models in Kenya, committed Sh30 million towards the WRC Safari Rally Kenya 2022. The support includes a monetary sponsorship of Sh14 million and Sh16 million in kind, being the double zero (00) and triple zero (000) route opener Hilux GR Safari Limited Edition. CFAO managing director, Arvinder Reel said: “We join the rest of the country and the motorsport community in celebrating the return of Safari Rally on the World Rally Championship (WRC) calendar till 2026. Our sponsorship is a demonstration of our commitment to support the growth and development of this leg of the championship,” said Reel. He added that having the Toyota Hilux as the double zero and triple zero car during the rally is a testament to the Hilux’s characteristics of being an off-road king, versatile and its high ground clearance, thus stamping its authority as “Shujaa wa Kazi”. As momentum builds towards the start of the Safari Rally, Toyota Kenya will give rally fans an opportunity to view the 1995 winning car, Toyota Celica ST185 Turbo Group A from May, which was driven by Japanese driver Yoshio Fujimoto.