@ppcheti The Sh20 million renovations for the Lamu museum is one month past the scheduled completion date. The National Museums of Kenya had earlier said the works would be complete by March. They commenced the renovations in November last year. However, NMK curator in charge of the Lamu Museum and World Heritage site Mohamed Mwenje said the works were 65 per cent complete. Mwenje, on Wednesday, said the delay was occasioned by aspects that had been added to the initial plan, hence the need for more time to complete the same. “According to our initial plan, the project was to be undertaken in five months. However midway, we had to add some more elements that needed renovation, hence we couldn't meet the deadline,” Mwenje said. “The windows for instance need to be designed afresh. The floor design requires certain specifications which call for new designs..” He however said the museum will be ready to receive visitors by end of May. The renovation works are funded by the Sultanate of Oman Embassy in Nairobi. This is the first time the Lamu museum is undergoing a major renovation since its establishment in 1970. The ongoing work involves replacing the corrugated iron-sheet roof, removing sections of the dilapidated plaster walls and reconstructing new ones. Exhibitions of archaeological artefacts are poorly arranged and displayed and will be improved and clearly labelled, for visitors to see, identify and understand them. Mwenje said that once refurbished, the museum will better educate visitors about Swahili traditions through collections such as clothing, domestic utilities and furniture. He said NMK was keen to cooperate with the Oman government to enhance the cultural ties that have existed for centuries between the two states. The rehabilitation of the Lamu Museum is part of a larger plan to expound on Oman's presence in East Africa, which has existed for over five centuries. “This particular rehabilitation project has provided new opportunities for collaboration in trying to improve the exhibition and presentation of the building, which is a key tourist attraction,” Mwenje said. One of the challenges the museum building has faced is constant erosion and corrosion due to its proximity to the waterfront, exposing it to humidity, strong winds, direct sunlight and salinity from the Indian Ocean. The rehabilitation serves to eradicate such risks among others. The Lamu museum is among NMK’s crucial facilities as it contains the largest and best collection of authentic Swahili archaeological artefacts on the East Africa Coast.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris