Industry players in the housing sector are set to meet in Nairobi and find solutions to the biting housing deficit. Habitat for Humanity Africa is set to host the inaugural Africa Housing Forum that seeks to foster solutions that promote low-cost and affordable housing as a driver of economic growth in Africa. The forum is part of a global series of regional housing forums organised by Habitat for Humanity in collaboration with partner organisations and will be held between May 12 and May 14 in Nairobi. Habitat for Humanity helps low-income people build strong homes and communities. With the theme 'Fostering Inclusivity and Resilience in Housing in Africa', the forum will be the first-ever housing forum organised in the continent by Habitat for Humanity. As a key milestone before the pivotal UN 9th Africities Summit, the forum will inform renewed action towards sustainable and affordable housing in Africa. Housing Principal Secretary Charles Hinga has welcomed the initiative. Hinga asked policy makers and key stakeholders in housing and infrastructure development from the continent to seek lasting solutions to affordable housing. He said the government has prioritised housing to foster inclusivity and economic growth in Kenya under the Big 4 Agenda. The PS also said the government has been working with partners to alleviate the housing challenge that the country faces. “Initiatives like the Africa Housing Forum are important for African nations that face similar infrastructure challenges,” he said. The housing pillar in the Big 4 agenda seeks to facilitate the development of 500,000 low-cost homes, together with the supporting infrastructure using innovative funding mechanisms and technologies by 2022. Kenya has an annual housing demand of 250,000 units, with an estimated supply of 50,000 units, culminating in a housing deficit of 200,000 units, or 80 per cent. The housing deficit in Africa is huge and continues to grow with about 238 million people living in informal settlements. Land tenure also continues to be a challenge, especially in the informal settlements. Habitat for Humanity Africa vice president Maurice Makoloo said the Africa Housing Forum will be seeking to consolidate solutions to the housing challenges that African countries face. We will focus our discussions on the role of housing in driving the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic in a more sustainable and inclusive way that brings together housing sector stakeholders from the continent," Maurice Makoloo said. According to UN Habitat, 50 per cent of sub-Saharan Africa will be living in towns and cities by 2030, primarily due to huge population growth that has been compounded by rural-urban migration. The migration has brought about a huge shortage of housing, in terms of both quantity and quality, contributing to the spread of slums and informal dwellings. Further, Covid-19 pandemic has shown that access to adequate housing can be a frontline defence against contagious disease. So far, three regional forums have been held, the first being hosted in Latin America and the Caribbean in May 2021. The other two were held in Europe and Asia-Pacific in November and December of 2021, respectively.  (edited by Amol Awuor)