UDA has called off nominations for Starehe, Kamukunji and Embakasi East, which were to take place on Wednesday. The National Elections Board on Tuesday announced the party will use opinion polls to settle on popular candidates. “The board clarifies that there will be no nominations for Embakasi East and Kamkunji constituencies under UDA using universal suffrage. Instead, alternative methods as provided by the party constitution will be applied," board chairperson Anthony Mwaura said. Nominations in Starehe and Kamukunji did not take place last week over violence. It is believed that supporters of  Starehe MP Charles Njagua and his opponent East African Legislative Assembly MP Simon Mbugua clashed leading to the postponement of the exercise. Mwaura said the party had launched investigations into the incidents of violence in the two constituencies. Any candidate found culpable will be held accountable. According to Mwaura, both Njagua and Mbugua have agreed on use of opinion polls and they signed a commitment to accept the outcome of the polls, and this was witnessed by UDA secretary general Veronica Maina and Mwaura. Deputy President William Ruto's party has also stopped the planned joint nominations with  ANC, an affiliate party in the Kenya Kwanza Alliance, in Mathare and Dagoretti North. This means there will be no universal suffrage nominations between the coalition partners as earlier communicated. “The National Elections Board wishes to notify the public that after consultations between UDA and ANC, there will be no joint nominations for Dagoretti North and Mathare constituencies. Instead, alternative methods will be used to identify nominees,” Mwaura added. However, primaries will still take place in 19 wards in Nairobi on Wednesday. The wards include Landi Mawe, Nairobi Central, Ngara, Pangani and  Ziwani which are from Starehe subcounty. Last week, only Nairobi South (South B) held their nominations for the MCA position which was won by the current ward rep Waithera Chege. In Kamukunji the nominations will take place in  Airbase, California, Eastleigh North, Eastleigh South and Pumwani wards. Kangemi ward in Westlands and Mowlem in Embakasi West will also have the exercise. In Embakasi North Subcounty, UDA nominations will take place in Dandora 2, 3 and 4 wards.    -Edited by SKanyara