She possesses a petite frame but Hellen Wawira is certainly no pushover. As a sportsperson with a disability, the powerlifter has encountered numerous challenges on her way to ranking second in the Under-41kg category. Her career trajectory shows that the path to glory is paved with naysayers on both sides, trying to dissuade you from your purpose. At her training base in Embu, she has, for a long time, been the object of puzzled stares from other gym-goers. She feels as if they are disturbed that someone who is supposed to be slouched at home in helplessness is bench-pressing heavier weights than some of them. "Stigma from able-bodied gym goers is something I experience every day of my life. They come into the gym and find me working, looking at me as if I do not deserve to be lifting that much weight or be there in the gym," Wawira says. Nonetheless, the sight of curious onlookers is just but a mere mosquito sting to a giant, that is Wawira. Powerlifting is the love of her life and vows she will never part with the sport till death do them apart. "In everything you do, you must be passionate. For me, I love powerlifting since the time I lifted my first weight in 2015. Discipline is paramount and you need to be prudent with your time. If training starts at 10am, then it has to be 10 am,"  Wawira explains. From Racer to lifter Until 2015, Wawira competed in wheelchair racing, since her high school days. However, prodding by fellow powerlifter Gabriel Magu, prompted her to embrace the sport, which she took to as a fish to water. Her first competition yielded a third-place finish and a blossoming of the newfound love for powerlifting. "It wasn't bad considering at that point I didn't know much about the sport. I remember it was the All Africa Games in Congo, where I finished third. I was so motivated by the result and resolved to get better as a powerlifter," she says. The rest is history as they say and Wawira's reputation has continued to grow from strength to strength. The hallmark of her seven-year career is competing at the Tokyo Paralympics last year where she finished fifth in the Under-41kg after agonisingly falling short of 95kg in her third attempt. As the stoic girl that she is, Wawira immediately bounced back from the disappointment and was already dreaming of breaking the world record of 110kg, currently held by China's Lingling Guo. "Right now, I can lift 100kg but the target still remains to lift 115kg. I believe it is something that is still possible hence there is no need to change goals at this time," she explains. The upcoming Commonwealth Games in Birmingham will offer her a chance to achieve this feat although she still has to navigate through the qualifiers. Wawira departs the country on Saturday for England where she will compete in the qualifiers in Birmingham under the GAPS Programme. The initiative offers upcoming athletes and coaches from Commonwealth nations the opportunity to gain extra knowledge, skills and resources through education and inclusive sport pathways. She knows too well the magnitude of the opportunity that has landed in her arms. "I am so happy. It is a great opportunity to qualify for Birmingham considering there are other talented powerlifters in the country. I will give it my all to do my country proud," Wawira says. Should she qualify for the Club Games, it will also be a chance for Wawira to heal from the disappointment at the Gold Coast when she missed out on the medal bracket. "It was really hard for me to take it in because I had dreamt of it. For days, I struggled to come to terms with missing out on the medal. Thankfully, Gabu (Magu) encouraged me to continue working hard and not to dwell so much on the loss," she recalls. Sporty family Wawira is a firstborn in a family of three — one girl and two boys — and is the most famous of the sporty siblings. She says their meetings are usually characterised by the exchange of knowledge on how to improve in their respective careers. "It is hard being a firstborn because all the others have got their eyes on you. We often advise each other to keep striving for the best in our respective careers. Our last born is a footballer whereas the other brother is a weightlifter," Wawira explains amid giggles. Also part of who she considers family includes Magu and her Embu-based coach Kennedy Ngatia. "Ngatia is the one who has been training me from the first time I began powerlifting. Even when faced with stigma from other able-bodied gym-goers, he has been encouraging me to push on. I think he has also been talking to these people, trying to reduce the stigma against me," she says. Wawira adds: "Gabu (Magu) is my role model. Until today, he follows up on my progress and advises me on how to improve. He is a straightforward guy who calls it as he sees it." Her career progression plan also includes establishing a foundation to nurture young, talented para-powerlifters. However, her biggest headache so far is the long-winding modalities of establishing one. "The foundation is to nurture young powerlifters so that many can hone their skills from a young age. It is better to start young when your body is still growing and developing rather than at an older age. The problem is I still don't know how to go about it," she says. Wawira believes national competitions across the counties will grow para-powerlifting and unearth more gems from all corners of the country. "We need to expose people to opportunities to exploit their potential. There are so many languishing across the country with nothing to do but their talents are going to waste. We need different competitions across the counties," she expounds. She was once told that becoming a champion comes at a price and Wawira, likewise, passes the same advice to other upcoming sportspersons. "You will struggle now and enjoy later but the reverse is true when you enjoy now. You have to keep pushing yourself for success," she says. Literally speaking, Wawira has lifted the bar high for powerlifting in the country. For someone who seems timid and reserved on the outside, lifting 115kg would be the hallmark of the unquenchable fire for success, which burns within her belly. 