Diary, A date, I’ve come to learn, is probably the only ritual with as many variants as there are demented minds that concoct them. I’ve been subjected to almost every conceivable torture in the name of courtship. I’ve run a marathon to appease my date. Me! Who thinks no one should run unless escaping from danger. I’ve visited a taxidermist and watched as a weird old man stuffed wood shavings inside the head of a dead impala so some macho dude can hang a trophy in his living room. I’ve even visited a sex store: three hours of my life wasted while my companion, a stranger, explained to me that men were wrong and size truly mattered, then proceeded to demonstrate through a tour of some of the bizarrest contraptions made purely for self-pleasure. Though some of those dates culminated in sex as wild as the dates themselves, nothing more came out of the exercises. I mean, how, in all wisdom, could I continue dating someone who makes me run for absolutely no reason? Or a woman who enjoys staring into the dead glassy eyes of mounted critters? Even worse, how can I possibly keep up with an army of dildos, some as large as my leg? Even the batteries in the smallest toy will outlast any Casanova. They say a hungry lion will eat grass. Well, grass I may eat, but I stop at dojo dates. Boy, oh boy, did I suffer! This woman screamed, made kamikaze faces, climbed the walls like a creature from a horror flick, then hurled herself at me at the speed of a jumbo jet. Out cold, she revives me with a blasted blood choke, strangling the daylight out of me, right before shouting, “Aikido joint lock. Hee-ya!” and nearly snapping my fingers off. When the sensei instructed us to relax, my date tied my arms and legs into a knot, said it was a relaxing yoga pause called, “The tripod headstand with lotus legs.” “You haven’t seen anything yet,” she said when I complained that I could taste my kidneys. “Wait until I get you into my bedroom.” Thank God for the woman who helped me practise running. I’ve never thought it possible that I would run away from imminent sex with a beautiful woman, but the way I hightailed it out of that dojo, I would have left Eliud Kipchoge eating my dust.