Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya was over the moon after his charges pulled off a much-deserved 2-0 win over KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. Muluya said the outcome was a clear indication that his newly-formed squad — where most players were promoted from the academy side at the start of the season — had ultimately come of age. Mercurial striker Felix Oluoch's brace was all Sharks needed to bag maximum points. “I am glad our patience is gradually paying off. This is an entirely new team, with most of the players in their early twenties,” Muluya said. “The performance they gave this afternoon is a memorable one. We know KCB is full of experience and certainly among the best sides in the competition. Registering such a scoreline is something to be proud of.” His opposite number, Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno, said they were the better side — just unfortunate in converting the numerous chances they created. “It's the same problem we've been experiencing. We create a lot of chances but fail to convert them,” Otieno said. The experienced tactician said they will continue training their sights on a decent finish in the cutthroat competition that has now entered its final phase. “I wouldn't want to discuss our chances at the title. I'd prefer we still take one game at a time and ensure we collect maximum points from our remaining fixtures to ensure we secure a respectable finish at the end of the season,” he said. The outcome fired Muluya's charges to fifth on the log with 41 points while the bankers have slumped to eighth, with 39. Runaway leaders Kakamega Homeboyz squandered a glorious opportunity to steer clear of their closest rivals Tusker after playing out to a one-all draw against Sofapaka at Bukhungu Stadium. Skipper Lawrence Juma fired the visitors ahead from the spot in the 21st minute before David Okoth restored parity three minutes to the break. Debutants Vihiga Bullets pulled off an impressive 2-0 win over bottom-placed Mathare United at Bukhungu. Coastal side Bandari settled for a two-all draw with Nzoia Sugar at Mbaraki Sports Club. Whereas Bandari are now sixth with 41 points, Nzoia are 14th with 27.