Vihiga Queens coach Boniface Nyamunyamu is targeting to clinch the Kenya Women’s Premier League title even before the conclusion of the season. There are seven matches remaining but Nyamunyamu that is too far and has trained his eyes on wins against Kayole Starlets, Gaspo and Zetech Sparks, which will give them an unassailable advantage. The three-time national champions face the trio in the next fortnight, fixtures Nyamunyamu said are in the grueling title run-in. “We are close to wrapping up the title but nothing is won yet. However, we are going for nine points in three matches to confirm our status as champions. Doing so with four games to spare will be a special moment for the team,” said Nyamunyamu. “We are still unbeaten, a record I believe we can keep till the end.” Vihiga, with 41 points, have an 11-point advantage over second-placed Ulinzi Starlets. The Cecafa club champions have drawn only twice in 15 matches. Vihiga have not been prolific in front of goal lately with their last four matches yielding only six goals. The departure of striker Tereza Engesha in the mid-season has been felt but Nyamunyamu is of the opinion that teams want to prove a point against Vihiga. “Teams are always scared to face us because of the quality we possess. How they play against other teams is so different to how they approach our matches. I acknowledge that we have struggled to score in recent matches but we have the stability to finish the season on a high note,” added Nyamunyamu. Merceline Wayodi suffered a foot injury in the 1-0 win against Kisumu All Starlets and is a doubt for the Kayole tie, according to Nyamunyamu. New signings Shalyn Opisa (striker) and midfielder Shalyn Ikalakala are also unavailable. The duo are Form Four students at football-mad Wiyeta Girls and are back to school. However, Emmaculate Wangila and Caren Bosibori will be available for selection. “Wayodi is the unsung hero. Her creativity is on another level. We struggled against Kisumu after her withdrawal in the early stages but we hope it’s not serious,” he observed, adding: “Opisa and Ikalakala played in three matches and are the future of this club. We can only call them into action unless our squad is totally depleted.”