Tenants at National Cereals and Produce Board premises have taken over the properties as their own and are collecting rent at the expense of the grains bulker. A review of the board’s records and field inspections by the Auditor General revealed NCPB properties in Kakamega, Kisumu and Nakuru counties were sublet by tenants to third parties. Audit inspections at sampled depots revealed encroachment by private parties. In Nakuru, a three-bedroom house that was to fetch NCPB Sh118,000 per month has been converted into a restaurant. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has revealed this in an audit of the NCPB for the year ending June 2020 tabled in Parliament recently. The cereals board leased the Nakuru land measuring four acres and the three-bedroom house located on the land to three tenants. For starters, it was leased without being valued. The tenants built numerous business stalls which they sublet to other people contrary to the requirements of the respective lease agreements. Tenancy agreements were not dated hence the rent due and paid or outstanding in the contract could not be confirmed. “The rental income was not remitted to the board. No evidence was provided to confirm whether the tenants had obtained the consent of the board before subletting the properties,” Gathungu said. In Kakamega, a tenant put up permanent structures on the open space and sublet the same disregarding a warning by the board. In Kitale and Nyahururu, there was a lack of valid lease agreements between the board and tenants on some of the premises. “The board may not have realised all rental income due from its leased properties. The completeness of the balance of Sh1.4 billion on other incomes could not be confirmed,” Gathungu said. In Bungoma, auditors found that an encroacher had fenced the plot where NCPB silos are located and leased it to a garage operator. In Kisii, there were structures irregularly built by third parties at two blocks of about one acre. “No records were provided to indicate the effort made by the management to recover the lands,” she said. In Nakuru, NCPB did not have ownership documents for land measuring 0.0879ha (0.2172acres) LR No3490/16. Gathungu said it was not possible to physically identify the said land for verification. In Kericho, there were permanent residential houses built and occupied by third parties who claimed to own the properties. They have allotment letters for the properties LR No 631/488, LR No631/505, and LR No631/504. “The circumstances under which the land ceased to belong to the board were not explained, some plots had beacons moved inwards causing NCPB to lose tens of meters of land,” she said. In Kakamega depot, the tenant leasing the land had built permanent structures and repainted the NCPB office. No records were provided showing the developments were approved by the directors. “In view of these issues, the ownership by the board of the cited properties as of June 2020 could not be confirmed,” Gathungu said. As NCPB appears to sit back and allow grabbers to prowl on its property, the auditor is concerned about the health of its finances. This is amid revelations the board’s financial performance is on a steady decline and may not sustain its operations. In the year under review, NCPB recorded an operating loss of Sh1.1 billion compared with Sh717 million loss it made the previous year.  The board has overdrawn its bank balances by Sh1.7 billion. Management attributed the low revenues to large debts owed by the government that resulted in a shortage of working capital needed to restock the trading stock. “NCPB may require the support of the national government and creditors to finance its operations. Management has not disclosed the measures taken to reverse the unsatisfactory performance,” Gathungu said. NCPB was found with 35 parcels of land valued at Sh1.3 billion that do not have title deeds, some of the parcels having been leased from Kenya Railways Corporation. Title deeds of four parcels of land located in Kericho identified as LR No631/2495, LR No631/407 Block 5/167, LR No631/406 Block 5/166, LR No631/406 Block 5/165 and Nakuru municipality block 8/13 were not provided for audit verification. “From the foregoing, the ownership by the board of the parcels of land without the legal title could not be confirmed and further, the property, plant and equipment totalling Sh5.7 billion may not be fairly stated,” she said. Several audit reports have flagged government properties at risk of grabbers. Cases have been cited at the Kenya Airports Authority, Kenya Forest Service (1,373 acres), National Housing Corporation (227 acres), and Kenya Railways.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris