Sgt Sophia, my colleague, the most beautiful woman in the world, my one true love, looks up at me from her hospital bed, groggy from all the medication they’ve been pumping into her. “So, this was your solution?” I look at the IV bag hanging on a stand by the bed. “Nope. The nurse brought the IV over and hooked it up. I wouldn’t know what to mix if my life depended on it.” She smiles weakly. “I hope you’re joking, otherwise you sound as dumb as a doorbell.” “Now I’m lost.” “I’m asking if you decided to kill me since you can’t have me.” “Oh, no! I didn’t know you were allergic to christhem… christenan… chrysthemem…” “Still can’t pronounce chrysanthemums, huh?” “What else are you allergic to? Beans? Cucumbers? Love? Do I need to make a list?” She presses a button on a keypad, raises the bed to a half-seating position. “Makini, I’m not allergic to love. You’re just not romantic enough.” “I was trying to be romantic by bringing you flowers. At first, I thought you fainted out of joy. Then you started getting bloated with joy. But to die out of joy? That’s where I drew the line. That’s a joke.” She laughs, winces a little. “I know, silly. How about we stick to daisies and roses from now on, huh? Or the occasional sunflower. What I’m saying is, don’t try too hard. I’ll try to make it much easier for you.” “Thank you. So, is this your solution?” “What?” “Do you have to be lying in a hospital bed to be this nice to me?” She pats the empty space on the bed. “Come. Let me show you how nice I’ll be to you from now on.” I get all fidgety. “In the hospital? That’s so naughty.” “I just want to kiss you, silly.” As I approach her, the curtains part behind me and a doctor walks in, clipboard in hand. The man is tall and as handsome as an Adonis. Picture Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson in hospital scrubs and a white dust coat. Sophia’s face lights up. “Oh my God! Dr Mwamba! What are you doing here?” No way! You got to be kidding me. His name is Mwamba? The rock? “I’m posted here now,” Mwamba says in a voice as smooth as a baby’s bottom. The kind that would ‘toa nyoka pangoni’. “I was as surprised to see your name on the patient roster. How have you been?” “I’ve been great. You?” “Since the last time you and I were together, my heart has been in pieces.” He perches on the side of Sophia’s bed. “I’m so sorry, Sophie. I was stupid to think that flying you to the Maldives, vacationing in Zanzibar or even a week-long shopping trip to Dubai were enough to win your heart.” “All that was nice. It was the small detail you conveniently forgot to mention that ruined it all. How’s your wife?” “Not anymore. See?” He wiggles the fingers of his left hand. “I wasn’t lying when I said our marriage was on the rocks.” “Ahem!” I cough. “Oh, Dr Mwamba,” Sophia says, “this is Makini. My colleague.” I squeeze his hand, almost injuring myself in the process. “I’m also her lover.” He laughs, sticks a thumb at me. “He’s the chrysanthemum guy?” “Yep.” “Remember that time we ate shellfish at Pongwe Beach? You swelled up like a blowfish.” They both laugh. The doctor looks at me. “Luckily, she was with a doctor, right?” Oh, that’s how you want it? It’s on, doc. It’s ON!