Two Nyeri leaders have promised to pursue the issues of disparity in teachers’ hardship allowances and the review of the delocalisation policy. Nyeri town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu and Nyeri senatorial aspirant Priscilla Nyokabi said they had already raised the issue with education CS George Magoha to have allowances for teachers in certain areas balanced. Wambugu said there have been cases of teachers in one school receiving hardship allowances while those in the neighbouring school do not get anything. The MP said he will work hand in hand with other Nyeri leaders to pursue that matter and ensure that the allowances are balanced. He said the problem arose during zoning after neighbouring schools, a stone throw away, were categorised in different zones. “We are pursuing that issue and I want to assure you that we shall follow that issue to the end,” he said. Nyokabi on her part said the delocalisation policy has to be looked at afresh saying it has been causing suffering to teachers. She said the matter has been discussed with the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga who is also the Azimio presidential candidate who promised to address the issue upon his election. The former Nyeri woman representative said Raila understands the pain of teachers and urged them to vote for him in the  August 9 general election. She said it is unfair given teachers are not paid enough money but instead of spending the little money near home they are sent to far flung areas. “I think it must be looked at afresh. I promise you that the policy will come back for review so that we give our teachers the best working environment,” Nyokabi said. She said placement should consider families and ensure they are taken care of by enabling husband, wife and their children  live together. She also said retired teachers’ dues must  be paid. The issue, Nyokabi said, has been raised both in parliament and is a subject of court case that is  pending  to date. “When teachers retire, they should be paid their dues. There can be no other way nor  answer to that matter but to pay them their dues,” she said. They spoke at Kagumo Teachers Training College in Nyeri town on Monday where they had convened a meeting with primary, secondary and ECDE teachers’ leadership to share their vision with them. Also present was Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina who is in the  gubernatorial race. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)