ODM primaries in Kisii on Thursday began on a chaotic note with the party shelving off nominations for parliamentary and Woman Rep seats. Party officials in Kisii told the Star the shelving of nominations exercise was to allow for consensus. Nyaribari Masaba parliamentary aspirant Laban Chweya, however, said he was caught off guard. He said he had turned up at Got Nyango polling station in his home area in Nyanturago and found it 'empty'. "There are no materials yet voters are here to pick candidate," he told journalists. He said he did not receive any communication on plans to discuss consensus. "I am hearing that some aspirants were called to Nairobi yesterday night to discuss consensus. Am an ODM aspirant yet am here, I did not receive any communication to that effect," he said. Chweya accused the ODM party of failing its aspirants in the hour of need. "It all boils down to lethargy on the part of the elections board. Personally am not pro - consensus, I wanted nominations," lamented Chweya. The party, he said, failed to communicate properly its plan of dishing direct tickets to some individuals. "We thought ODM will this time round be democratic. But what they are doing is unacceptable. Our supporters were in polling stations by dawn ready to cast votes yet there are no materials," he said. At the Kenya Institute of Highways and Building Technology in Kisii, the main tallying Centre, the party Branch party chair Kerosi Ondieki said nominations for MPs and Women Rep had been suspended to give room for consensus. The aspirants for both seats had been called to Nairobi for 'deliberations on reaching consensus', he said. "Anybody claiming he has not received communication is lying. Even those caught by surprise have travelled by flight to catch up with the meeting," Kerosi told journalists. The exercise set off slowly delaying the arrival of kits in some stations across the County. In Boitangare Bobasi Ward, Kerosi said the primaries had to be postponed after a Ward Rep aspirant's name was missing from the list. He said they will fix a fresh date for the exercise following the anomaly. Elsewhere, there was drama at Mwalimu Hotel in downtown Kisii after a Ward Rep ransacked the facility on allegations that it was hosting people plotting to rig against him. A hotel executive said the aspirant sauntered in at 10 am in the morning with goons in tow. "They broke a few items and intimidated customers. We have filed complaints with the police and we expect the police to investigate the incident with a view to taking action," said the official. In the Bobaracho polling station, there was confusion with voters voting for the Women Rep seats and MPs even after the party suspended it. Some Ward Reps also lamented over the lack of photos as voting got underway. Lukas Ongaki, an aspirant, said voting took place only in one of the 16 polling stations marked early by the party. "We suspect possible rigging because one polling station cannot be used to gauge who is popular. It may turn out that it is a popular ground for some aspirant who the party has an interest in," he said. Aspirant Joash Tai said he found his picture missing from the list even as voting got underway. In the Bomachoge Borabu constituency, presiding officers protested being deployed to other neighbouring constituencies over security. "We are being told to go to South Mugirango yet we come from Bomachoge. We are unsure of our security there," said Alex Aika.