Defending champions Chipu face a stern test of their credentials when they come up against Namibia today in the Barthes Cup semifinal at Nyayo Stadium. Curtis Olago's charges thrashed Uganda 54-20 in their quarter-final with Namibia equally dominant in a 62-0 demolition of Ivory Coast on Saturday. Olago has asked his charges to play with the same intensity they did in the second half against Uganda in what promises to be a competitive match. "Namibia are formidable side but we must bring our physicality and intensity and take our chances to win the game,'” added Olago. The side received a major boost ahead of the showdown with Teital Sisal Estate through its Hiladana Lodge forking out Sh1 million. The side used Monday and Tuesday to review the performance against Uganda ahead of the Namibia encounter. Kenya will rely on Idd Ganguma, Nicolas Okullo, Gabriel Ayimba, and skipper John Baraka in the forwards while Cornelius Mukoro and Samuel Mwaura take care of the half-back. Tonny Oketch, Anderson Oduor, and David Mwangi are expected to provide speed in the backline. On their part, Namibia will be gunning for revenge having lost to Kenya 21-18 in the final in 2019. The Southern African country did not grace the event last year due to Covid-19 concerns as Chipu picked up a second consecutive title. Namibia will rely on Jano Otto, Flippus Iyambo, Gregory Grethius Ombili, and Rian Groove in the forwards with the fullback and top point scorer Geraldo Stephan Beukes, Adrian Louw, and Manuel Hawinga the pick of the backs. Namibia coach Chrysander Botha expects a stern test from Kenya but said his boys are prepared for the clash. "It will be a tough clash. Kenya have a speedy backline and very strong forwards and we must rise to the threat they will pose,” he added. The other semifinal will see Zimbabwe face Madagascar with the final being played on Sunday at Nyayo Stadium. In the classification matches being played Wednesday, Ivory Coast face Uganda at 9 am while Tunisia take on Zambia at 11 am.