Caleb Otieno’s family hope the government will step in to save them from the “ridicule of shameful compensation proposed to us by the Blue Nile Rolling Mills Company where he worked. Otieno, 34, was crushed by a heavy metal rolling mill at the Thika-based establishment before his body dropped into a 200 degree celsius furnace on March 25. His body dissolved and mixed up with molten metal. Three pieces of bones and ashes collected from the furnace’s floor were put in an adult-sized casket and buried at his Kogony home Kisumu on Saturday. The family has asked the government to ensure a humane compensation is given to them  to serve justice for the blood of their kin. Reports from the family had earlier indicated that the company’s top brass had proposed that Otieno’s father, Martin Oraro Dache, be put in the company’s payroll on a Sh7,000 monthly stipend for five years. This, according to the family, was the compensation arrangement pushed for by the company. But during the burial, the family  recounted how the second born in a family of seven was the main breadwinner. The deceased paid school fees for his kins. With him now gone, Dache said, the family was vulnerable and that  is what his employers  wanted to exploit. The family members bitterly complained that the company’s senior bosses despised them due to poverty. They want the government  to step in and protect them from being taken advantage of. This, they say, would secure them meaningful compensation for the loss of their kin. "How can you say the blood of 'Otis' is worth Sh7,000 a month after that kind of pain and death? Surely," Otieno's elder brother John Agwambo said. The father said the season has been hard on them. “It has not been easy for us as the family, from the expenses during the entire period until we managed to finally bring the remains home on Friday night," he said. Otieno’s cousin Michael Orao had told the Star that the company’s bosses had raised the compensation issue immediately they visited the scene of accident  on March 27. Orao said, while the parents were still in deep shock, the company's boss said that  he would consider Otieno's father as one of his employees and he would receive the stipend like every other employee on the payroll. The company directed the family to pursue “meaningful” compensation from the insurance company, he said. "The 'mhindi' owner of the company was the one suggesting the ideas and deciding alone without anyones input. I think they saw how poor mzee was and decided to give the ridiculing amount," Orao said. "They brought the motion of compensation when the family was still moved by the death. Our focus was just on the death but they chose to strike when it was still hot." During the funeral, emotions ran high even as locals stated that Caleb was still a young man and didn't deserve to die. The funeral mass was held at a field next to their home with his remains resting under a tent surrounded by family and friends. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)