Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee has released a document that proposes key changes to the FKF Constitution and Rules in the wake of the government's sustained efforts to streamline the administration of the sport in the country. The development comes exactly a day after Caretaker Committee chairman retired judge Aaron Ringera reiterated their desire to align the current FKF document with the Constitution of the Land as well as the Sports Act. The Committee's head of secretariat Linda Ogutu said they would present a working document to Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed once they are through with the reforms. Some of the Articles targeted in the document entitled 'Key Changes To The Constitution And Rules Of FKF (2020) include the definition of terms and phrases where ‘county’ has been amended to mean the 47 branches of FKF in charge of the administration, management and running of football at County level. The term ‘club’ has been also been amended to mean an organization whether incorporated or not registered as such under the Sports Act. “Article 6 on players has been amended by inserting the phrase that the Players shall be registered in accordance with the regulations of FKF and Fifa and where there is any conflict in the rules then the Fifa regulations will take precedence,” reads the document in part. “Article 10 has been amended by inserting the Kenya Primary Schools Sports Association, Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Associations, and Kenya Colleges & Universities Sports Association as members of the FKF,” reads the proposed document. In Article 14 which defines members’ obligations, Clause 14 (1) (C) is amended by inserting that the members of FKF have the obligation to convene the General Assembly (GA) at regular intervals, as a general rule at least once a year on or before the 31st day of March in each year. “Clause 14 (1) (g) is amended by inserting that the members of FKF have the obligation to adopt a clause specifying that any dispute requiring arbitration involving itself or one of its members relating to statutes, decisions, and directives of Fifa, CAF, CECAFA or FKF shall be pursued using internal mechanisms and only be referred to the Sports Tribunal or CAS after exhausting all internal dispute or appellate mechanisms.” “Article 26 on decisions of the General Assembly is amended by inserting the phrase if the GA votes to suspend the NEC or any member thereof, it shall be empowered to replace the said members of the NEC with interim officials of not more than nine and not less than five for purpose of procuring fresh elections within 90 days.” Article 35 County Representation Clause 2 is amended by inserting the phrase each club that is duly registered by FKF and actively participating in not less than 50% of the fixtures in the leagues and competitions will be eligible to vote. “At Article 37 (Composition), clauses iii, iv, v, and vi are amended by including the phrase that the Representatives of the FKF Premier League, National Superleague, and Women's Premier League shall be elected by the respective Premier League, National Super League and Women Premier League Clubs.” The Article is amended by inserting Clause vii-ix which provides for one representative from the Kenya Primary Schools, Secondary Schools, Colleges, and Universities Sports Associations. 