Diary, Imani Kamene is back. Remember last week I told you about her? She’s the ugly duckling back in primary school who transformed into a gorgeous swan. After teasing then abandoning me at the restaurant, I never thought she’d call me again. Two nights ago, she did. Invited me over to her house for a party she was throwing for her friends. “Why?” I asked. “Why would you invite me after I ignored you back in school?” “Because the last of my single friends just got herself a man. You wouldn’t fail me now, would you?” Gripped by a mix of guilt and good old intrigue, I had no choice but to see what she was up to. The dress code was formal casual. Imagine that! Imani Kamene, throwing a formal dinner? It was almost laughable. I wore navy pants, a sky-blue shirt and threw a sport jacket on top. Now the head of the Kenyan branch of a global cosmetic juggernaut, Imani lives in a palace in Lavington. I parked my Benz at a petrol station outside the estate and called an Uber. Always have a getaway vehicle handy, is my motto. A white butler, of all people, opened the door. “Mr Ojiambo, I presume?” He even spoke like a butler, all British and cultured. “I’ll show you to the parlour. The mistress will be with you shortly.” In the rich sitting room (I don’t know how I expected a parlour to look, but I was a tad disappointed), the butler asked, “May I interest you in a beverage? The mistress has authorised me to serve you anything in her private collection.” “Unless you give me a menu, I wouldn’t know what’s in her private collection.” “This is a private residence, sir. We don’t order off a menu.” And that was only the tip of the iceberg. It got stranger as the night wore on. The food was delicious but unusual, the wine too expensive, and Imani’s friends a bunch of bourgeois socialites from across the country and abroad, who casually discussed shopping trips to New York and impromptu dinners with the likes of Elon Musk in Mecca. “Did you enjoy yourself?” she asked me after dinner. “The wine I recognised, but what did I just eat?” She laughed. “The technical name is Long Pig.” “What’s the ordinary name?” She whispered in my ear, “We’re a society of international cannibals.” The way I hightailed it out of there, she had to offer an apology by phone, said it was a joke and promised to make it up to me. And you know what, my head must be screwed on wrong because I’m going back there for a private dinner tomorrow. Hopefully, I’m not on the menu.