Deputy President William Ruto has reportedly made up his mind to name his running mate from Mount Kenya. According to several people close to the DP, the UDA leader is understood to have informed ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula of his decision a few weeks ago. Mudavadi will instead be named Finance minister while Wetang’ula will take over as Senate speaker.  Wetang'ula, a lawyer, will succeed his tribemate Ken Lusaka who is fighting to become Bungoma governor again. Mudavadi and Wetangula will also get 30 per cent of the Ruto government while 20 per cent will be shared among other small parties under the Kenya Kwanza alliance. Mudavadi’s party has been agitating for the naming of their leader as the running mate, but Ruto has decided that he will instead settle for someone from either Upper Eastern or Central Kenya. “DP has told the two that he cannot afford to lose a single vote from Mount Kenya hence his decision to pick his number two from the region,” a senior aide to Ruto said. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula were yet to respond to calls and SMSs from the Star on the developments by time of going to press. Those being considered for the number two slots are Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Kandara’s Alice Wahome, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki. Ruto is expected to consult with some of his key and close allies in the course of the week before naming his number two. "We shall unveil the running mate with time. You will just know with time. Talks are on," the Kandara MP said, adding she still believes her cap fits for the job. According to the IEBC, all presidential aspirants have eight days to name their second in command. “Ruto has narrowed down his options to a few people. He is now looking to see who might help galvanise his support not just in Mount Kenya, but across the country,” a close ally from Rift Valley said. In an interview with KTN News on Sunday, Gachagua seemed to confirm Ruto’s decision when he said the number two slot was one of the several pacts they sealed with DP as Mt Kenya leaders last year. "One of the things we had discussed with him is that whatever we had agreed earlier cannot change drastically to the disadvantage of the Mt Kenya people because the new friends have come," Gachagua said. On public spats between him and ANC leaders over the DP slot, Gachagua said he is in the Ruto camp to advance the interest of the Mount Kenya region. Despite acknowledging the huge contribution brought by their coalition partners, he said what was agreed between them as Mt Kenya leaders and the DP remains intact. "Their coming has been a very big boost and it has given a fresh impetus to our team." Yesterday, Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi, known to be close to Ruto told the Star that the decision had not been discussed yet but will be after the nominations disputes are resolved. “This issue will be resolved after we finish with a few nomination disputes that have risen,” Sudi said. Apart from Gachagua who has consistently led in the Star opinion polls as the most preferred running mate, women leaders are pushing for either Waiguru or Wahome. “A woman will really increase our chances across the country. We believe either Waiguru or Wahome would be the best," Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga said. Ruto believes Mudavadi would the right person to turn the economy around should he win. Mudavadi, a land economist, entered politics in 1989, aged 29, to succeed his then powerful father Moses Mudamba Mudavadi. His father's close ties with Moi ensured that his political career was fast-tracked. He was appointed to the Cabinet soon after his election to Parliament and served in key positions, including as Finance minister between 1993 and 1997. His tenure at the Finance ministry was tainted by the Goldenberg scandal, which had started during the time of his predecessor George Saitoti. However, Mudavadi was condemned for approving further payments to the architect of the scam. This remains the largest economic fraud in Kenya's history. In the recent past, Mudavadi has been critical of how President Uhuru Kenyatta has run the economy. He has particularly taken issue with the debt burden the Uhuru administration has accumulated in the last nine months. Kenya’s public debt increased to Sh8 trillion by the end of September last year, according to data from the Central Bank of Kenya. The CBK’s records indicate that the country’s stock of public debt, including guaranteed loans, stood at Sh7.996 trillion in September last year. This is an increase of Sh299 billion in the first three months of the current financial year ending June 2022. Public debt stood at Sh7.697 trillion at the end of June 2021.  (edited by Amol Awuor)