Some Kilifi MCAs want the ODM party to conduct nominations. They are optimistic they will win in the primaries and are opposed to the issuance of direct tickets to some individuals. They have failed to reach a consensus. The aspirants from Malindi town, Shella and Ganda said they invested heavily in the campaigns. Malindi has five wards. In Jilore and Kakuyuni wards, the members were given direct tickets because they do not have competitors. Malindi subcounty ODM acting chairman Nixon Mramba said in Jilore there were two candidates but the sitting MCA Daniel Chai Chiriba quit the race and joined UDA. He will vie for Malindi MP seat in Kakuyuni and he is the only ODM MCA aspirant hence there would be no nomination. However, he said aspirants from Malindi town, Shella and Ganda disagreed and want to go for nominations. Speaking to journalists after meeting the aspirants separately wards on Monday, he said Malindi town ward which had seven aspirants, failed to agree because each member felt they are best placed to fly the flag. He said in Shella there were three aspirants but one had stepped down in favour of Twahir Abdulkarim who disagreed with the sitting MCA Kadenge Mwathethe. In Ganda, he said there are five aspirants and they did not reach a consensus and wanted nominations. “Malindi town ward is 100 per cent ODM, If you contest using a different party, you will lose,” Mramba said. The Kakuyuni MCA said they gave aspirants time to discuss to reach a consensus but they failed. He said they will prepare a report and submit it to the ODM National Election Board for further directions. Rashid Odhiambo one of the aspirants in Malindi town ward said they have faith that ODM will conduct free and fair nominations. He said those who are in the NEB should conduct the primaries. “We are ready for the nominations that is the only way which will determine everyone’s position. The issue of direct nomination is not acceptable,” he said. Oscar Wanje, an aspirant from Ganda ward said he was ready for anything provided the party remains strong and united after a decision is made. When the nomination dates were announced Wanje said he was ready for the primaries and respected the party’s decision to postpone the exercise. “I am ready and will respect the party's decision,” he said. Baraka Mataza another aspirant in Malindi town ward called on the NEB to ensure they do not lose any candidate following their decision. “ODM is a strong party and we believe the union we have with these other aspirants, will enable us to get one of the best from us,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris