Kenya Reinsurance Corporation Limited owes Kenya Revenue Authority Sh3.21 billion in accrued taxes, a report of Auditor-General Nancy Gathungu shows. In her report for the year ended December 31 2021, Gathungu said of the total, Sh1.27 billion was for assessments done from 2009 to 2012 and Sh1.94 billion from 2013 to 2017. She said the amounts related to withholding tax on cedant acquisition costs and brokerage fees. “The outcome of the contingent tax liability remains uncertain, even though discussions to resolve the contentious matter continues between the corporation and KRA with the assistance of professional advisors,” she said. “No provision has been made for this contingent liability.” Kenya Re was established through an Act of Parliament in December 1970 and commenced business in January 1971. Kenya Re’s core activity is providing reinsurance services for most classes of business. Since its inception, it has progressively and consistently continued to provide reinsurance services to more than 265 companies spread out in over 62 countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. In the report, Gathungu said the corporation owns a parcel of land within the precincts of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport that it cannot access. She said the property was valued at Sh720 million as of December 2021. “Management has disclosed it has limited access to the land as imposed by the Kenya Airports Authority mainly due to security reasons. The corporation, therefore, is not realising the full potential of the investment” she said. Gathungu said Kenya Re invested Sh350 million for the purchase of land measuring 59.87 hectares (147.94 acres) along Ngong Road which is a subject of dispute between the corporation and Kenya Forest Service. She said the matter is before the National Lands Commission. “The corporation may not be realising the benefits that may accrue from the ownership of the land and the management is not in a position to make long term investment plans unless the matter is resolved,” she said. Gathungu said the corporation is the registered owner of a parcel of land measuring 99.58 hectares (246.07 acres) along Kiambu Road valued at Sh563 million. “The corporation is in dispute with one of the directors of the vendor of the land and the case is in court. The corporation is therefore not realising the full value for money of the funds invested in the property,” she said. Gathungu said the corporation is the registered owner of a parcel of Sh23 million piece of land measuring 17.3 hectares (42.75 acres) in Shanzu Mombasa that is also the subject of a dispute. “The corporation is in a dispute over the ownership of the land with Kenya Prisons Service. As a result, the property is not being utilised to generate income,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris