The scramble for the Kamba vote in Kajiado County has intensified after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka endorsed Governor Joseph Ole Lenku for a second term. Kalonzo and a brigade of Wiper senators led by Enoch Wambua (Kitui) and Agnes Kavindu (Machakos) rallied the Kamba community behind Lenku saying their interests would be best catered for in his government. "We have agreed that we shall not field a gubernatorial candidate in Kajiado. Our candidate is governor Lenku," declared Musyoka. The endorsement is a shot in the arm for Lenku's re-election bid who faces competition from the UDA candidate, Katoo Ole Metito, and Jubilee's David Nkedianye. Analysts have interpreted the endorsement as a huge setback to former governor Nkedianye who in 2017 got majority of the community's votes as the Nasa candidate. Kalonzo further said he would protect the interests of the Maasai community when the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya government takes power. "We have won elections and we shall win this one. I seek votes for Raila Odinga." Kalonzo urged the Kamba community to support Lenku saying he had shown courage and determination to fight for the rights of the Maa nation. "It is not easy to defend sensitive matters affecting the community the way Lenku has done. He is a true champion of his people's welfare. He needs to be given a second chance to finish his job," Kalonzo said. The former vice president who is eyeing to be Raila's running mate further said he was impressed by the relationship between governor Lenku and his deputy Martin Moshisho. "I am impressed by this young and tall man. I can foresee that this deputy will be ripe to succeed Lenku in 2027." Kalonzo spoke in Ng'atataek when he led thousands of local residents to unveil Moses Birisha as the Wiper parliamentary candidate for Kajiado Central on Sunday. In his bid to return the political favour, Lenku pledged to fully back Birisha to oust the area MP Memusi Kanchory. “This sea of humanity will vote for Raila. They have said loudly that they will re-elect me. They have also come today to declare they will vote for Birisha. Memusi shall be sent home," Lenku said. Bagging the Kamba vote will give Lenku a head start against his rivals as he tries to inherit and consolidate votes from the Azimio-leaning communities in the county.