ODM leader Raila Odinga has called on Nyanza residents to only vote for candidates vying on his party ticket in the August 9, general elections. Raila said he wants six counties in the Nyanza region to vote ODM candidates from MCA to the presidential seat to strengthen the party in their Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance Coalition. The Azimio party presidential candidate argued that he does not want to be a lame-duck leader should he win the presidency. Nyanza counties are Kisii, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Siaya, Nyamira and Migori. “I want people in this region to only vote six-piece for the party to remain strong. Let MCA, MP, Woman Rep, Senator, Governor and President come from ODM,” Raila said. Speaking during the burial of immediate Kenya's ambassador to Qatar Paddy Ahenda in Kabondo Kasipul constituency in Homa Bay county, Raila told residents to speak with one voice during the general election. The opposition leader spoke as many aspirants in his Nyanza backyard complained over nominations. A number of aspirants who sought ODM tickets during the party primaries are crying foul that they were rigged out. The party has also been accused of favouring other aspirants by giving them direct tickets without appropriate consultation among competitors. But on Monday, Raila asked those who lost in nominations to join hands with the party flagbearers to avoid division in the region. He argued that direct tickets were handed to popular aspirants after consensus and to avoid chaos during primaries. “Even if the election is repeated several times, it's only one person who will be declared the winner. I want our people to get united and focus on one agenda of making everyone turn up and vote on election day,” he added. The opposition leader was accompanied by a number of leaders including former Jubilee party SG  Raphael Tuju, Governors James Ongwae (Kisii), Wycliffe Oparanya(Kakamega) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay). Other leaders were EALA MP Oburu Oginga, Senator Moses Kajwang (HomaBay), woman representative Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and MPs Babu Owino, Millie Odhiambo, Eve Obara, James Nyikal among others. Raila condoled with the family saying he met Ahenda in Doha 10 days before his death. “His death came as a shocker. Ahenda would be remembered as a true patriot and a dedicated leader,” he said. Tuju who read President Uhuru Kenyatta's speech described Ahenda as a humble and team player. Tuju called on Nyanza residents to remain calm and united as they approach the August 9 general election. “Let not party primaries' anger make us lose the focus. In an election, every vote counts hence we should get united,” Tuju said. Oparanya and Ongwae said they will help Raila in his campaigns to ensure he wins the presidency. They reiterated the calls for peace during campaigns in Nyanza and Western regions. Oparanya said he wants Raila to win the presidency with a majority of MPs and governors. "We had released Raila to go and seek the presidency as people from Western Kenya. Let's concentrate on how we'll deliver him the votes," Oparanya said. Oburu, Wanga and Kajwang told residents to ignore independent candidates in the region. "Those who want to run as independent candidates after they were defeated in ODM primaries should be treated as traitors," Oburu said. Wanga claimed all her competitors were consulted before ODM handed ticket the governor seat ticket to her. "All aspirants were called before they agreed to support me as flagbearer for governorship," Wanga said.