Seven suspects were Wednesday arrested in connection with the killing of a fourth-year JKUAT student in Juja, Kiambu County. Police said they are interrogating the seven over the murder of Joel Juma, who was stabbed in the chest in Juja on Tuesday morning. Juja head of DCI Richard Mwaura said they will subject the suspects to various identification processes as part of the probe into the murder. “We believe we have the real suspects in the murder of the student. We are processing them for production in court on Thursday,” he said. Juma was in the company of his girlfriend when he was stabbed by three men and robbed of an unknown amount of money and valuables. Earlier, DCI arrested two suspects linked to the murder. The sleuths said on Wednesday that the arrest of the two came following a manhunt launched after the murder of the 4th year Industrial Chemistry student. The undercover agents seized Joseph Muchiri, alias Agent, 22, and Paul Mbatha, 20. Their arrest followed a detailed forensic analysis of the scene conducted by Crime Scene experts based at the DCI National Forensic Laboratory, leading the detectives to the identity of the suspects. The first suspect was seized from his hideout in Kiandutu, Thika town, while the second was arrested in Gachororo, Juja area, as he tried to escape our dragnet that had been extended to Murang’a County. "The seasoned crime busters are closing in on the third suspect and efforts to find him dead or alive are at advanced stages," DCI said. The detectives added that Joel Juma, who was at the apex of his undergraduate studies, met his death in the most callous manner after three men accosted him and his girlfriend as they were headed for a friend’s house to seek revision materials. Special teams of detectives from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau (CRIB) were dispatched on Tuesday to augment the Juja based detectives in a manhunt for the suspected bloodthirsty killers. The thugs, who are part of a gang desperately escaping an ongoing operation in the larger Eastlands area, assumed that they had found a safe haven in Gachororo but not anymore. A comprehensive operation to engage them is ongoing. Muchiri alias ‘Agent’ and Mbatha, have since confessed to taking part in the murder, and are being processed for arraignment on Thursday, in strict compliance with the law.