Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda becomes the first MP in Nyanza to be floored in the ODM nominations. The first time legislator was kicked out in the hotly contested primaries held on Tuesday by businessman Dr Joshua Oron. Oron thrashed Ouda after he garnered 6,842 votes against the MP's 5,362 votes. Victor Radido emerged third with 269 votes while Elijah Oburu trailed with 172 votes. However, many MPs from Kisumu county easily recaptured the ODM tickets after many of them were not subjected to the nominations. In Muhoroni, the incumbent MP Onyango Koyoo beat four other contestants to clinch the ODM ticket. Koyoo got 4,043 votes followed by Hezron McObewa who garnered 3,317 while ex-majority leader Samuel Ongow managed 1,081 to clinch position three. In the Kisumu East constituency, Nicholas Oricho emerged the winner after beating three other opponents. Oricho won after getting 4,533 votes against his main opponent Senior counsel James Mwamu who got 2,626. In Nyakach, the incumbent MP Aduma Owuor made his first step towards recapturing his seat after flooring six aspirants who were also eying the ticket. Aduma got 3,893 votes to emerge victorious while former MP Daima Ochieng managed 3,000 votes to secure the second position in the race. Jonathan Opande and Wilson Ochola scored 2,869 and 794 votes respectively. The polls were not conducted in Seme, Kisumu West and Nyando where ODM issued direct tickets. In Kisumu West, the ticket was given to Rosa Buyu, who is the current Kisumu woman representative. She is eying to replace incumbent Olago Aluoch of DAP-K. In Seme constituency,  Dr James Nyikal received the ticket while in Nyando, Jared Okelo, incumbent MP, was also considered. The primaries also saw Senior counsel Tom Ojienda clinch the ODM senatorial ticket. Ojienda bagged the ticket after garnering 39, 336 votes against his closest challenger nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga who got 18,319. Former assistant minister for Education and Muhoroni MP Ayiecho Olweny got 10, 794 votes emerging a distance third. Former Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga will fly the ODM flag in the county woman representative race. Ruth grabbed the ticket by scoring 23,665 votes against her closest challenger Rose Omondi who managed 13,685 votes. About 90 per cent of the members of the Kisumu County Assembly were sent parking during the primaries which saw comebacks in some of the wards within the county. The official results were declared by the County ODM returning office Jackeline Sanaipei Muntet at Tom Mboya Labour College, which was the tallying centre. Before announcing the results, ODM commissioner Nchoe Syntei pleaded with losers to remain in the party and support those who emerged winners for the sake of unity.