Murang'a governor aspirant Jamleck Kamau has unveiled Naomi Njeri Kagone as his running mate in the August 9 race. He will vie on the Jubilee Party. Kagone holds degrees in education and international business studies from Kenyatta University and USIU and a masters degree in science and a doctorate degree in entrepreneurship. She is also the Poise Business Development Consulting Ltd chief executive officer. The unveiling comes days after some women from Gatanga appealed to aspirants to appoint women as their deputies. Kamau said Kagone's qualifications and her experience in the corporate world will help him in running the county should he get elected. “I wanted someone who will partner with me in running the office and who will help empower the youth and women and I am confident that Kagone will be the first woman deputy governor in Murang’a,” he said. Kamau was confident he will emerge the winner saying his agenda will help streamline the county operations. In 2017, he vied for the same seat but was defeated by Mwangi wa Iria. He will battle it out with former Water PS Wairagu Wa Maai, former Devolution PS Irungu Nyakera, Senator Irungu Kang’ata, pharmacist Moses Mwangi and businessman Michael Gatogo. Kamau said he is starting his campaigns and will make sure that by August, 75 per cent of Murang'a people will be supporting him. He spoke on Tuesday in Gatanga. Kamau urged residents to scrutinise leaders before deciding who to vote for saying, they should be weighed depending on their development record. “I am politically experienced. I served as a Cabinet Minister under the late President Mwai Kibaki’s administration and I have never been incriminated in any graft scandal,” he said. Kamau said he is ready to partner with the people of Murang’a to make it one of the best performing counties. Kagone said she is humbled to have been chosen as Kamau's running mate, praising him for believing in her ability. His decision, she said, shows that he believes in women empowerment and is not afraid to demonstrate it, saying he has led by example. “Kamau has a specific agenda for women and youths and I accept the opportunity. I am excited to know I will support his administration and I am confident that Murang’a will never be the same again,” she said. Kamau is the second governor to appoint a woman as his running mate after Nyakera who last month said he will be deputised by Catherine Mugo. Mugo who served as a nominated MCA until 2017 was vying for the woman representative seat before the two decided to work together.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris