Wazalendo captain, Danston Wabwire, believes their ball handling skills ought to improve if the South B-based side want to be a competitive team. Wazalendo are third in the Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League standings with nine points from four matches. They are a point behind leaders Butali and second-placed Strathmore Gladiators both although the sugar millers have a superior goal difference. Wabwire admitted that their 3-0 loss to Kenya Police in the season opener was a wake up call to the team that was still suffering from the hangover of playing in the African Cup for Club Champion in November 2021 Accra, Ghana. "Losing to Police by such a margin was surprising considering how we played but it was a timely caution for us," Wabwire said. "We needed an immediate response because tongues were already wagging that our second-place finish in the 2019 season was by fluke. It was clear we needed to get away from the ACCC exploits and channel the energy on improving in the league." Wazalendo emerged from the ashes to register three wins without conceding a goal, thanks to a change in strategy. They beat United States International University (Usiu-A) Mashujaa 2-0. Wazalendo edged out Western Jaguars 1-0 before registering a similar scoreline against Greensharks who have been blowing hot and cold. Even though Wazalendo still play with flair, defending has become a priority for the team known for their counter pressing. "Heads up to the tactical team for striking a balance between defense and attack. Ball-handling skills have improved but they need to be inch-perfect. Defending starts with Strikers and we have adjusted accordingly. Competition has not been there for two years so a change in strategy was desperately needed." Wazalendo take on newbies Parkroad Badgers in three weeks' time in a match they are fevourites to win and Wabwire has warned the team against complacency. "We are building momentum and there's need to take one game at a time with aim of victory. Underrating any of our opponents is uncalled for.” Editing by Tony Mballa