Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has issued 1,866 title deeds to squatters living on the disputed Nzalae ranch in Nguutani ward, Mwingi West. The residents who have battled incessant and violent evictions for almost half a century received their tittle deeds on Monday. Ngilu said it is the end of the age-old plight of residents in the hands of land cartels hell-bent on grabbing the expansive land. “Since early 1970s, these people have only known Nzalae as their ancestral homeland. However, lack of title deeds and land rights has exposed them to numerous eviction attempts by land grabbers," she said. The governor said she is pleased to declare them the rightful landowners. Ngilu said her administration started the land adjudication process late last year with the aid of the Ministry of Lands. “We thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and his administration for their invaluable support in making surveying, demarcation and titling of Nzalae plots a success," she said. The county boss said residents can now walk into a bank and secure a loan using the title deeds and better their lives. She also took a swipe at politicians who have over the years used the disputed land issue as a campaign tool. "It is insensitive and shameful to politick about emotive issues like land ownership," Ngilu said. The residents could hardly hide their joy and relief after receiving the crucial documents ending decades of an agonising wait. Janet Kyalo said land cartels used to invade their villages, burn down their homes and evict them from Nzalae ranch. “We have slept in the bushes countless times following numerous eviction attempts by powerful people laying claim on this land. We can now sleep soundly as the legal owners of the adjudicated plots,” she said. Another resident Stephen Musembi attributed their plight to a land cartel codenamed “Group Ranch”, which he claims was led by a prominent politician in Kitui. “He promised to use his influence to ensure the group took ownership of the ranch but we fought back even with bows and arrows,” he said. Musembi said their lands have become prime and this will lead to development and financial growth. “We have suffered a lot and for long in the hands of land grabbers but victory is finally ours. Thanks to Governor Ngilu who came to our aid,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)