Baringo residents facing acute unemployment crisis have called on leaders to come to their rescue. Residents have said the county stopped employment since 2017, hence causing serious backlog of unemployed youth. “Personally I sold everything including my only ancestral parcel of land and livestock to educate our children,"Laban Chepuywo, a resident, said on Sunday. "But sadly, we currently stay with them (children) at home, and none has since secured employment.” Chepuywo, who hails from the remote Lelbatai village in Baringo Central subcounty, said crisis of joblessness is becoming unbearable. He said the only government official they see in their village is the area chief. “The rest of us, including our children, are firewood vendors and charcoal burners” he said. Another resident, Ezra Kiptoon, from Mokorwo, said he stays at home with his five children who have completed studies in different tertiary institutions, but lack jobs. “They have tried to apply for jobs, but were not lucky to get employed just because they lacked someone to help them,” he said. Governor Stanley Kiptis said unemployment currently stands at 80 per cent, although he said he can do nothing about it. “Our wage bill is currently at 56 per cent against the standard 37 per cent, so you can see my hands are tied and I can’t help” Kiptis said. He also said his predecessor, Benjamin Cheboi, employed and confirmed an exceeding number of employees. A similar crisis  has been reported in the subcounties of Baringo North, Mogotio, Baringo Central, Eldama-Ravine, Baringo South and Tiaty. Apart from joblessness, more than 200,000 people in the county are facing acute starvation owing to prolonged drought. “My family now survives only on porridge we are lucky to get some little maize flour” Loruk Margaret Chemjor, a Baringo North resident, said. According to the National Drought Management Authority, a majority of the families currently have nothing to sell to afford their basic needs after their livestock succumbed to hunger. Kiptis said, although his administration is collaborating with Kenya Red Cross to donate maize and beans to affected residents, that was still little. Last month, county commissioner Abdirizak Jaldesa also donated a few sacks of rice and beans to the hungry victims of bandit attacks, saying more is still needed. Government officials have asked partners to intervene urgently and supply more relief food to cushion the residents against hunger. On Saturday, Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie visited Cattle Dip, Kaiso, Kipkituny, Ochii, Chepkero, Lelgut, Cheplongon in Tenges ward on Saturday during campaigns where unemployment topped the list of challenges. Kandie promised to donate farm equipment to the residents living along River Kerio so they can be self-reliant and earn a living through irrigation.  (edited by Amol Awuor)