Bahati's baby mama Yvette Obura has said the singer did not show her the DNA result for their daughter Mueni. Speaking on Diana Marua's YouTube channel, Yvette said she knew a DNA test was to be done but she was not shown the result. She said after moving in with Diana, one day Bahati asked for Mueni to spend time at his house only for her to see her daughter's photos online without her consent. Yvette's beef with Diana started when she felt the latter disrespected her. Diana apologised for posting Mueni's photo on social media without Yvette's consent. "I didn't realise until later. This is what happened, after moving in with Bahati, he wanted to do a DNA of the baby and it was a bit an issue," Diana said. "I had never seen the baby although I knew there was a child somewhere. I was like okay. One day Mueni came home and when I saw her, I told him, 'this is your child but if the DNA will make you okay, then go ahead'." Bahati had a DNA test done to ascertain if Mueni was indeed his biological daughter. It was a match. "He later did a photoshoot and I saw Diana post my daughter, Bahati, his friends," Yvette said. "I felt disrespected as the mother. I am an introvert, I don't talk much but my friends talked on my behalf." She added that they had previously agreed to keep their child off social media. "I am trying to explain to Bahati and he is like this [Diana] is going to be Mueni's mum. I didn't have access to him since after that he blocked me and I didn't even know you [Diana] in person," Yvette said. Diana defended herself, saying she innocently posted a photo of her, Mueni and Bahati. "The first few comments were okay and I slept. I woke up trending, bullied and insulted," she said. "It was bad and I told Bahati this is how I felt. I cried about it. I did not have anything to say. "A friend told me 'Hapo umechoma' she told me I should have asked the mum. The best thing I should have done was to delete the photo but Bahati refused." Diana said life afterwards was not smooth but they have moved past the incident.