After over a two-year break, former Butali Warriors captain Kenneth Nyongesa is ready to make a comeback to the club. Nyongesa, who guided the sugar millers to two Premier League titles in 2018 and 2019 is out of the country for work-related commitment but hopes to return home in June. "To be honest, I miss playing. However, I believe I still have a lot to offer to the club that has built my profile. Physically, I am unavailable but I am in touch with the team and follow their matches closely," the title-winning defender said. "Hopefully, I'll help the club achieve their target in the second half of the season because, at Butali, it's all about winning and fighting for the title," said Nyongesa, who also played for Strathmore Gladiators. Having set very high standards at the club during his tenure, Nyongesa,  34, challenged the current skipper Constant Wakhura to guide Butali to another title in order to repay the faith shown in him by the management. According to Nyangesa, Butali's 2019 unbeaten title triumph was all about defensive solidity and ruthless attack— the club's trademark since 2018. "Transition for the captaincy started much earlier even before the 2019 season ended. So I believe Wakhura has settled into his new role by now. As a leader, he has to be bold and address players' issues besides uniting the dressing room." He added: "The pressure is on him to lift the trophy considering he also captains the national team. He needs to leave an indelible mark." Nyongesa, an ICT expert, called on the senior players to offer guidance to the juniors. He said the club must continue with the policy of recruiting young talented athletes to ensure continuity. "The only way the club will grow is by recruiting young players who offer a longer playing lifespan. Experienced players have an obligation to offer leadership to the juniors," he quipped. Butali are second in the Kenya Hockey Union League standings with seven points from three matches. Leaders Strathmore have 10 from four matches.