Kenya Volleyball Federation want the women's beach volleyball team to start immediate preparations ahead of the Commonwealth Games planned for July, Birmingham. Kenya were granted the opportunity by virtue of its ranking continentally. The country is currently ranked second in Africa in the women's category and was awarded the slot on what they termed as FIVB Bipartite invitation. An excited Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) vice-chairman, Charles Nyaberi said the country's participation in the quadrennial games was inevitable by virtue of their current ranking. "We are back to the drawing board and there's no time to waste. Training needs to start as soon as possible," he said. He added; "This is a golden chance and we will need to go back to basics. We have been rewarded because of our consistent performance. We have the potential in terms of talent and we know we can stand our ground at the Commonwealth Games." The pair of Naomi Too and Veronicah Adhiambo bagged bronze in the qualifiers in Ghana last month. Olympians Gaudencia Makokha and Brackcides Agala were overlooked despite being part of the team. The men's team, on the other hand, is placed sixth and Nyaberi said KVF have appealed to FIVB to allow them realise their Birmingham dream. On his part, Kenya Beach Volleyball Commission secretary Sammy Mulinge pointed out the need to expose the teams to World Tours before Commonwealth Games. As much as he wasn't surprised by FIVB's move, Mulinge said the country needs to channel its energy into thorough preparations. The former APR coach said Kenya will field different sets of players for both Commonwealth and World Championships slated for June. "The only way to acquaint ourselves with the nitty-gritty of the game is by exposing the players. We are discussing with KVF to see if the players can have one or two World Tours before the Birmingham show. This is in line with our long-term programme," he revealed. He added: "We would like to field different teams for these two competitions as there are no qualifiers for the World Championship. The top four will qualify automatically and we must ensure we are on top of our game and scale up the ranking to be guaranteed a slot." Kenya will also field a team in the world Youth Championship zonal qualifiers next month at a yet-to-be-announced venue.