Over the years, men have chosen to explore different hair designs, moving with the millennial era. Men no longer just shave clean their heads. There’s the option of plaiting, dreadlocks, clean, combed hair and rugged hair. Young men between the ages of 20 to at least 30 years mostly go for the ‘lot of hair’ style compared to the ones above 30 years. Men above 30 years like getting clean cuts. Below are some styles young men can consider. 1. LONG AND SHAGGY Shaggy hairstyle is one of the most popular haircut styles for men as it is easy to get. It is a messy hairstyle that is versatile and exudes confidence. The layered cut works well with all hair types and lengths, giving you limitless styling options that will transform your hair. The shaggy haircut will work well for your next date; it can be the right style for you. Guys with shaggy hair may want to pair their look with a taper fade haircut on the sides and back to add some needed contrast. You can ask your barber for a high, mid or low fade to create the right look. 2. FULL-HEAD DREADLOCKS Dreadlocks are one of the best and most popular hairstyles for black men. Modern and cool, dreads can be worn short or long, with a taper fade or undercut on the sides and back. Dreads can be styled loose and flowing or tight and up top, lying to the front side of the head. Men also choose to braid their dreadlocks, and this adds an interesting texture to your style. If you’re after a braided look, it’s best to keep the dreads thin. This way, it is easier to control and incorporate more complex style elements. Of course, there are also braids that cater to thick dreads. 3. PARTLY RUGGED This is the most common hairstyle for young men who want to have a ‘freestyle’ look. The sides are faded and the top hair is left unkempt. Using a sponge with holes and rolling designs, men use this tool to make rugged hair at home. One can choose to use styling wax and gel or leave the texture to soften on its own. Then dry the hair using a hairdryer or leave that work to the scorching sun. This will help the hair remain tough and firm.