A Baringo South professional wants the Education ministry to give special consideration  in Form 1 admission to KCPE exam candidates from banditry-prone areas. High Court advocate Fridah Lotuiya, who is running for Baringo South MP, said special consideration to the candidates is only fair since they missed school and took exams under stress. Exceptions should be made to uniform admission criteria, she said. Form 1 selection is imminent. She wrote a letter to the ministry in what appeared to express the views of other professionals and parents. "KCPE exam candidates, especially from Baringo South and Baringo North, were affected by banditry so they didn't get an environment conducive to writing national exams," Lotuiya said. In her letter, she said parts of Mochongoi, Ilchamus and Bartabwa wards in Baringo South and Baringo North have been affected by rampant banditry attacks. The attacks led to loss of life, property, displacement and children dropping out of school. “The students in areas affected by bandits have had to suspend their learning for so long," Lotuiya said. "The environment is marred by gunshots, fear and constant anxiety. "Some had to drop out of school because of the insecurity,” she said. During the KCPE examination, some schools and homes were stormed by bandits, who killed people and drove away thousands of animals. The disturbed areas were not suitable for study or exams and some students had to be transferred to other schools to continue with their national exams. “And against all odds, some of the students did exceptionally well in the just-released examination results," Lotuiya wrote. She said it would be unfair to use uniform admission criterion for all students directly affected by the insecurity and those who were not affected. The prevailing circumstances during the time of the examination should be factored in, she said. “It is noteworthy the 8-4-4 curriculum does not take into consideration any previous performance by the students," the lawyer wrote. "Therefore, circumstances surrounding the time of the final exam become critical and relevant if justice is to be done," she wrote. She urged the ministry to fully sponsor students from banditry-affected areas. In this way, they will get access to equal opportunities with all other students, she said. “The families of those students have been robbed dry of their livestock by the bandits, lost their bread winners and most of them have been displaced. Some live with relatives but most are homeless," the letter read. Lotuiya said most of the affected parents lost their animals so they cannot afford to buy food and pay their children's school fees. The government and well-wishers should help, she said. (Edited by V. Graham)