Mombasa Woman Representative Asha Hussein has faulted ODM's decision to use opinion polls to nominate its candidate in the county. Hussein is competing with Zamzam Mohammed, who has vowed to topple her for the party ticket. The two were part of the leaders called in Nairobi last Thursday by the ODM National Election Board to agree on who would be handed the party ticket. Hussein said ODM had conducted two polls, in February and March. The February polls put her ahead with 38 per cent with Zamzam managing only one per cent. However, the March polls saw her opponent jump to 34 per cent as she dropped to 27 per cent. ODM has since commissioned a third poll after leaders present during the meeting failed to come to a consensus, forcing the party to postpone the primaries scheduled for Wednesday. “Sadly, we will not go for the nominations, yet we had spent resources printing posters, banners and branding cars. We shall however await the fate as will be guided by NEB,” Hussein said. It had earlier emerged that Zamzam was likely to be handed the party ticket.  However, Hussein refuted the claims, saying no one had been given the party ticket. Speaking on Monday in Mombasa, Hussein was confident she was going to lead in the third polls and retain her seat. “I believe if given the party ticket I will deliver the seat. I have done a lot of work in the grassroots and have been instrumental in selling Raila to the people,” she said. Hussein is said to have fallen out with Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who wants to succeed Joho. She denied joining Suleiman Shahbal’s camp after the political break-up. She accused Nassir of abandoning her to join forces with her opponent. Hussein said she is capable of funding her campaigns and was not interested in joining any camp but focusing on her re-election. She got into elective politics in 2007 after she successfully won the Kingo’rani ward seat under ODM. In 2013, she said she defeated current Likoni MP Mishi Mboko for the Woman Representative, but the ticket was handed to Mboko. “Despite being denied, I remained loyal to the party that’s why I was nominated as an MCA in the Mombasa county assembly,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris