Police are investigating seven incidents of suspected suicide in the country that happened on Tuesday. The first case was reported off Waiyaki Way where a 39-year-old man, an accountant at a private firm, was found dead in his house. The body of Bernard Kamau was found hanging on a rope. In Buruburu, the body of Moses Njoroge,50, was found in his house long after he had died. Police said they suspect the two men died by suicide but they are investigating to establish if they were killed. The other incidents were reported in Chebunyo, Bomet, where a Form Two student died by hanging himself. In Mariakani a 27-year-old man also hanged himself as his wife showered outside and in Kiirua, Meru, a 45-year-old man was found dead by suicide. Another incident was reported in Kabras, Kakamega, where a 24-year-old man hanged himself. Police said another man,60, hanged himself on a tree in Ukwala area. Police said the motives of the incidents are yet to be known and postmortem exercises were planned as part of the probe. Cases of suicide have been on the rise this year and authorities blame the trend on mental distress. There were 174 cases of suicide reported in 2020 as compared to 196 in 2019, 302 in 2018, 421 in 2017 and 302 in 2016. The majority of the victims were male, police reports say. Police say the trend has been worrying and increasing as up to two cases are reported daily. Police spokesman Bruno Shioso said the issue needs serious attention. The World Health Organisation says such cases are attributed to joblessness, death, academic failures or pressures, legal difficulties and financial difficulties. Other reasons are bullying, previous suicide attempts, history of suicide in a family, alcoholism and substance misuse, depression and bipolar disorder. WHO rates suicide as a serious global public health issue that is among the top 20 leading causes of death worldwide. Globally, close to 800,000 people die of suicide every year with an estimated 78 per cent of cases occurring in low and middle-income countries. Kenya ranks position 114 among the 175 countries with the highest suicide rates. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the country is in the process of putting up a National Suicide Prevention Strategy and Programme (2021-2026), in line with the WHO guidelines. A task force on mental health established Kenya has a high burden of mental illness due to ill health, psychosocial disability and premature mortality with huge gaps in access to care. The team found out that the majority of people in Kenya associate mental health and illness with negative narratives leading to a low focus on the importance and benefits of mental health and well being. The team recommended that mental illness be declared a national emergency of epidemic proportions, to prioritise mental health on public health and socioeconomic agenda. It recommended that mental health be provided with adequate financing in line with international best practices.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris