No Value Added Tax would be charged on unga until six months after the signing of the Finance Bill, 2022 into law by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The bill, which MPs voted to fast-track last week, proposed to delete from among VAT-exempt goods, maize flour, cassava flour, wheat, and meslin flour. “This is provided that this paragraph shall be in operation for a period of six months after assent,” the Finance Bill reads. This would mean that the VAT would be charged on Unga in about November this year, assuming the President signs the bill into law by May 1. MPs on Tuesday last week voted to reduce the bill’s publication period from the 14 days provided in the standing orders to four days, thus paving way for its first reading. Majority leader Amos Kimunya said the legislation was being fast-tracked to allow the Finance Committee chaired by Homa Bay MP Gladys Wanga to act on the bill during the short recess beginning next Thursday. The committee is expected to receive views and memoranda on the bill from Kenyans interested in the amendments. The proposed VAT on maize flour stirred a heated political debate with DP William Ruto-led Kenya Kwanza side promising to shut it down in further amendments. “We will not pass the Finance Bill you have brought before the National Assembly that is meant to raise the price of flour, milk, bread and bodaboda,” Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said. "We will not allow them to raise the standards of living so that they can get money to push their projects. We shall stand firm in the National Assembly to ensure that we bring down the cost of living," he said in Nyeri on Sunday. In the bill, motorcycles – largely used by bodaboda riders – other than ambulances and locally assembly bikes would attract a duty of Sh13,404.64 per unit from the present Sh12,185.16. The Finance Bill also seeks to increase excise duty on fruit juices, vegetable juices from Sh12.17 per litre to Sh13.30 per litre. Duty on cosmetics and beauty products would be charged at 15 per cent from the current 10 per cent, new charges which come into force on July 1. Bottled water and other non-alcoholic beverages – not including fruits and vegetable juices – would attract duty of Sh6.60 per litre from Sh6.03. Beers, mixtures of fermented beverages with of alcoholic strength not exceeding six per cent per volume will increase from Sh121.85 per litre to Sh134. Wines and other alcoholic beverages obtained by fermentation of fruits would attract duty of Sh229 per litre should MPs approve the bill, an increase of Sh21. Spirits and other spirituous beverages exceeding six per cent would be charged excise duty at Sh335.30 per litre. Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos with tobacco and substitutes would attract duty of Sh13,296 per kilo from the current Sh13,906 per kilo. Cigarettes with filters would attract duty of Sh2,752.97 from Sh2,502.74 per mille while other manufactured tobacco and substitutes would attract duty of Sh10,707.88 per kilogram. Imported sugar confectionary will be charged duty of Sh40.37 per kilo from Sh36.74 while chocolate, chocolate in blocs, slabs and bars would be charged Sh242.29 per kilo. Electronic cigarettes and other nicotine delivery devices would be charged excise duty at 40 per cent while liquid nicotine for electronic cigarettes at Sh70 per millilitre. Ice cream and other edible ice will attract duty at 15 per cent. “Excise duty on fees charged on advertisement by television stations, print media, billboards, and FM radio stations on alcoholic beverages, betting, and gaming competitions shall be charged at 15 per cent,” the bill reads. Duty has been removed for fertilized eggs imported by hatcheries, neutral spirit used by pharmaceutical manufacturers, and local manufactured passenger motor vehicles.