Kakamega Homeboyz head coach Bernard Mwalala has urged his charges to step on the gas peddle as the Kenyan Premier League enters its crucial stages. The side opened an 11-point gap on the closest rivals Tusker at the summit of the log after Sunday's 1-1 draw against Sofapaka at Moi Stadium Kasarani fired them to 53 points. Dave Odhiambo put the visitors ahead in the 12th minute but Joe Waithira's 72nd-minute screamer drew the host's level. “I'm happy with today's performance. But we must work hard to ease off the pressure that we are feeling at the top with Tusker closing in on us,” Mwalala said. “It's now upon us to push ourselves further. It's not the time to start celebrating because we still have a considerable number of matches to play before the end of the season. “Still, I believe we have an opportunity to make the people of Kakamega proud by taking the title away from the dominant Nairobi sides,” Mwalala said. Mwalala's opposite number Dave Ouma lashed out at the referee, saying he was lenient to their opponents. “There was some reckless play against our team and the ref did absolutely nothing to contain the situation,” Ouma said. He said he is in the process of rebuilding a new outfit after taking the reigns from Ken Odhiambo who left a week ago. “We are not badly off and still stand a chance of wrapping up the season in a respectable position,” Ouma said. “I believe in the quality of our players. I know there is no way they can let the fans down no matter how bad the situation is,” Ouma said. At Thika Stadium, AFC Leopards beat Wazito 2-1 to reignite their hopes of wrapping up the season in the top ten. The outcome fired Leopards to ninth on the log with 34 points. Joseph Kinyanjui put Wazito ahead in the 17th minute before goals by John Makwatta and Nigerian Ojo Olaniyi handed Leopards their back-to-back victory. Leopards' head coach Belgian Patrick Aussems said he was happy with the outcome, adding that their hard work and consistency was finally paying off. “This is simply amazing. We have finally found our winning touch and I believe if we continue this way we will certainly secure a respectable finish in the league,” Aussems said.