Kiambu Jubilee senate aspirant George Maara has promised residents that he will advocate for more funding to the county if elected. Maara, who hails from Limuru unsuccessfully ran for Limuru parliamentary seat thrice. On Saturday, he said if given a chance he will push for better healthcare, agriculture, youth affairs, education and industrialisation. "I have good intentions to serve the people of Kiambu and I am once again vying for the senator seat," he said. Maara said county funds are not well administered and he is capable of offering  a proper oversight role. He said issues of health care needs more allocation of funds so that affordable medical care can be accessed by all people. "I will bring in the corporate world and donors to support our healthcare systems," Maara said He added that the health care givers need to be remunerated well to offer quality service to the residents. "If there is a legislation to improve the quality of health our people receive then I will be ready to support that in Senate," he said. Maara attended Ngecha Primary School and later Starehe Boy’s school, he says he wants to give back to the community through development of educational facilities. "I will work with the community, government and all stakeholders that are interested in making sure that we have a good education system," he said. He said that he will address youths issues to ensure they are employed and more opportunities are created for them. "We cannot move forward without our youths. Once I am in the senate I will be at the forefront in advocating for  youth issues , enable them access higher education funding and mentorship programmes in business," Maara said. He said the county depends on agriculture but past regimes have destroyed it but he will ensure the sector is revived to boost livelihoods. "We had coffee and tea and all this has been mismanaged leaving the people impoverished," Maara said. In industrialisation he said that he will make sure that industries thrive in Kiambu. He assured residents that he will shun empty and divisive politics and ensure all the policies he makes are fulfilled and delivered. Others who are eyeing the senate seat on a Jubilee ticketinclude John Mugwe, Gathogo Eric, Dominic Gicheru and Beth Wangui. The Jubilee aspirant will face Karungo wa Thangwa  of UDA, Gathii Irungu(Tujibebe Wakenya Party), Machel Waikenda(CCM). (Edited by Tabnacha O)