Meditest Diagnostic Services, which operates Meditest Hospital, has denied claims by some reports that it lacks basic equipment such as ICU, HDU and a lab. The facility has also refuted reports that it is a Level 5 facility, saying it is a Level 4 hospital licensed and gazetted as so. “Meditest is duly authorised by the KMPDC to be a level four hospital, daycare facility. It is published in the Kenya Gazette,” CEO Sunil Kumar said. “It is a reputable specialised institution, offering specialised services operating under strict observations of all medical ethics.” Kumar spoke in the wake of media reports the facility has been elevated to Level 5 hospital despite lacking the basic components to support its status. The reports said the hospital was on January 1 issued with licenses to operate as a Level 5 by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council. The reports show the hospitals lack the necessities of a Level 5 hospital including an HDU, an ICU, an emergency and an ambulance among others. Addressing journalists at the facility’s premises in Parklands, Nairobi, Kumar said the hospital, which operates in four counties, has never applied to be a Level 5. The CEO said Meditest hospital has HDU, ICU, inpatient areas and an automated lab. “Normally our patients just walk in and in the evening they are discharged,” he said. “Sometimes some of the patients may want to stay overnight and we keep them in a private room to support the surgical department.” The hospital’s marketing and communication director Olekina Jerry said the hospital’s license and the gazette notice confirm that Meditest hospital is a Level 4. “It is a malicious intent to damage the reputation of the facility. Whoever is doing it is out there and probably celebrating but they will not manage to damage our spirits,” Jerry said. The hospital operates in Kenya, Uganda, South Africa and India. In a statement issued by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Council in the wake of the report, CEO Daniel Yumbya said the facility is a Level 4 and not as stated in the article. “According to the categorisation rules, a Level 4 medical or dental facility offers specialised outpatient services,” the statement said. The hospital provides dental, radiology, laboratory, surgical and oncology services. Jerry said the facility does not accept emergencies, and in the event they come, they are immediately referred to the Kenyatta National Hospital. “Due to lack of specialists in contagious or infectious diseases, the facility does not admit patients with infectious diseases. We do not see them unless there is a lab request from other facilities. In which case we only receive specimens,” he said. The hospital which has three outlets in Nairobi has operated in Kenya since 2016.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris