The Kiambu county government has procured maize and beans seeds worth Sh34 million to be distributed to farmers this planting season. Governor James Nyoro launched the free distribution at Maguguni in Thika East on Wednesday. He said the 105 tonnes of maize and 14 tonnes of beans seeds will be disbursed to farmers across the 60 wards. Nyoro, an agricultural economist, said the maize seeds to be distributed are of different varieties including DKC, Haraka and Aminika which are fast growing and suited to specific ecological zones. The beans seeds include Nyota, Katran, Kat 56 and B9. “We procured the seeds at Kenya Seed to ensure that we give our farmers quality seeds. The seeds are early maturing, tolerant to diseases and high yielding. Our main objective is to improve food security and empower our people economically,” Nyoro said. The county chief, who was accompanied by a host of MCAs and other county officials, said Kiambu farmers will also receive extension services offering them technical advice and training to maximise production. “We launched a programme whereby we have village-based advisers in all wards across the county who impart essential training to farmers to enhance their farming practices to enable them reap more yields. We have already instructed the advisers to move from village to village training and offering advice to our farmers,” Nyoro said. Nyoro said that the county government is committed to promoting the region’s self-sustainability in the agriculture as well as compliment the national government’s efforts towards achieving food security in the country. “This is why we are going for the best and quality varieties of seeds to be distributed to our farmers in different agro-ecological zones across the county. We want Kiambu residents to grow enough food for consumption and agribusiness,” Nyoro said. The governor said his government plans to increase allocation to the agriculture sector to 10 per cent of the county budget. The region, being an agricultural area, should focus on the sector to grow its economy and improve residents’ living standards. “Agriculture is the reason why Kiambu has been flourishing economically and hence the need for us to focus more on improving the sector. We will also be reaching out to our financial partners like World Bank through NARGI project, Agricultural Sector Development Support Programme, FAO, the Qatar government, Danish International Development Agency and Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa for the same,” he said. Nyoro disclosed  his administration plans to support farmers from semi-arid areas including Ndeiya, Ngoliba, Maguguni, Komo, Juja and Kamangu with chicks for poultry farming. This will enable the farmers generate earnings and hence improve their living standards. “We will be providing day-old chicks to our farmers and we hope they will change their lives because poultry farming is nowadays a lucrative venture,” Nyoro said. Residents welcomed the county government’s move to give the free seeds terming it as a shot in the arm. They said that they now have high hopes of getting better yields this season. “Some of us didn’t have enough seeds for planting this season but we thank God that we now have plenty. We are just waiting for the rains so that we can plant. We hope we will get a good harvest,” resident Lucy Nyambura said. Edited by Henry Makori