President Uhuru Kenyatta has said will soon resume succession politics despite taking a long break. He said his silence should not be interpreted to mean he is afraid of jumping into succession politics. Uhuru spoke at Gakarara AIPCA church in Kandara, Murang'a during the annual Holy Oil Consecration ceremony on Thursday. The President used the church service to re-enter the county after years of postponed visits. The county that was previously perceived as a Jubilee bedrock had developed animosity towards the government, mostly due to the rising cost of living. Residents have since shifted their loyalty to Deputy President William Ruto who has visited the county numerous times. Since his re-election in 2017, Uhuru has visited the county four times, all while attending burial services for prominent persons. The first was in April, 2018 when he attended veteran politician Kenneth Matiba’s funeral service at Ihura stadium. He also attended the burial service of veteran Kikuyu artiste Joseph Kamaru at Kaharati in Kigumo constituency on October 11, 2018. The President next toured the county in February 2019 when he attended the burial of popular businessman Thayu Kamau at Gitui village in Kiharu. The last time he was seen was in August, 2019 when he attended the burial of renowned musician John De Mathew in Gatanga. Uhuru however said he is in full control despite his absence and his presence will soon be seen and felt. He resolved to ignore politicians insulting him saying they should continue their rude ways as he (Uhuru) fights for national unity. The President was hailed for helping heal decades of divisions that had torn the AIPCA church into three factions. Each faction had elected its own archbishop resulting in numerous fights among members. One of the archbishops, Julius Njoroge, said the church split 17 years ago and he only became part of it in 2017. “We have been struggling as a church since then and God is great that we have been inspired to come together and unite our church,” Njoroge said. In 2020, the three archbishops held sittings together with stakeholders and agreed to work together to heal the divided church. By then, the Attorney General was threatening to de-register the church due to the conflicts. Stakeholders, with the help of officials from the Office of the President helped the three elders to come up with an addendum that allowed them to all lead collectively. The agreement said each will lead the church as the presiding archbishop for one year and after three years, they will have to hold elections. “People who could not eat or sit together have become one. Today marked the end of violence in the church. “We have exchanged vows with Holy Oil which is binding. This was last done in 1993 when the church first split but we hope this is final,” Njoroge said. The archbishop said members should burry the hatchet and forgive each other. Presiding archbishop Samson Muthuuri said the President’s help has been instrumental in healing the church, hailing him for initiating the peace process. “He called the three of us and urged us to unite the church. He supported us with guidance, financial aid and his time every time we needed it,” he said. Since the agreement, Muthuuri said the three archbishops have been able to restore church organs that were previously dysfunctional such as the bishops’ synod and women and youth councils. He said they will not allow anybody to cause cracks in the church again. Muthuuri said they will ensure the church’s constitution is amended to seal loopholes that fuelled the conflicts. Archbishop Fredrick Wang’ombe said were it not for the President, the church would still be divided. He said members of the church should forge forward with harmony as the church is now one. Uhuru said the church was formed during colonial times when Kenyans were being locked out of other churches that were offering education. “When this church is divided, the nation is divided.” He lauded the leaders for putting their interests aside to unite the church. The President said the same way he has supported the church in its struggle to find peace, is the same way he will walk with the country until it is united. “If archbishops can shake hands, why would someone tell me that I shouldn't shake someone’s hand. I will shake hands with anybody who is after peace,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)