National Vision Party leader Anthony Chelimo will formally launch his campaign for Elgeyo Marakwet governor on Saturday in Iten town. His entry will spark a fierce challenge against UDA nominee Wesley Rotich, the deputy governor. It's likely to be a two-horse race to succeed Governor Alex Tolgos. Having completed two terms, Tolgos will run for Senate. At the launch, Chelimo will also introduce his manifesto and programmes to benefit youth, women and people with disabilities. “We are set and the target is to win because our party brings on board clear and focused plans to take our county to the next level,” Chelimo said. Rotich defeated former IG Joseph Boinnet in the recent UDA primaries. Boinnet's team rejected the results, citing massive rigging during the tallying. Boinnet's dispute is likely to spark sharp divisions among residents. Chelimo is likely to benefit, especially because the former police boss refused to accept the results. Chelimo, an international businessman with wide networks, is a well known leader in the region. He has raised the profile of the NVP founded by former powerful minister Nicholas Biwott. Chelimo's manifesto says he will improve healthcare by ensuring hospitals have adequate facilities and equipment, better management and well-trained staff. “We will also focus on empowerment of youth and women to create employment and empower them through training," Chelimo said. He also aims to improve school performance during national examinations. “If elected I will also give priority to peace issues in Kerio Valley where banditry is  a major hindrance to development," Chelimo said. His team has also identified improving infrastructure, tapping tourism resources, providing water and increasing agricultural production. Rotich who won the UDA primaries after a gruelling campaign will be supported by Deputy President William Ruto. He says he is determined to succeed his boss, adding that his win in the primary demonstrates his support in the region. While Chelimo is from the more populous Keiyo South area, Rotich is from Keiyo North and both are likely to pick running mates from the Marakwet community. The county is mainly inhabited by the Keiyo and Marakwet communities (Edited by V. Graham)