Homeboyz Amon Wamalwa has been called up to the Kenya Sevens squad for this weekend's Africa Cup sevens slated for Kampala. Wamalwa joins Alvin  'Buffa' Otieno who makes a return after missing out on the Singapore and Vancouver tournaments. Also joining the team are— Timothy Mmasi of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology(MMUST) and Augustine Lugonzo. Head coach Innocent Simiyu said they needed to freshen up the squad for the two-day competition that will also act as a  World Cup qualifier. “We are coming from a tough two legs in the World Series and it's imperative that we bring in fresh legs for the qualifier to give ourselves a chance of progressing to the World Cup. Simiyu said they will be out to make a statement of intent at the Africa Cup. "The goal apart from qualification to the World Cup will be to make a statement of intent and show everyone that we are the best on the continent,” said Simiyu. On the team's dismal show in the past two tournaments in Vancouver and Singapore,  Simiyu said the squad has to improve on execution which will, in turn, positively impact the performance. "We are not taking our chances when we need to, and at the same time minimise our errors in both attack and defence,” said Simiyu. Vice-captain Herman Humwa said he expects a physical Senegal side in their opening match. “There are very strong physically and we expect a tough contest from them. However, the boys are well prepared and we are relishing the challenge,” said Humwa. The Quins forward said by virtue of them being defending champions, every team will come hard at them. “We are the hunted and every team will want to beat us," said Humwa. Three teams will qualify for the World Cup slated in Cape Town in September while one team will earn a ticket to the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England in July. Kenya and South Africa have already qualified for the Club Games. Squad: Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Herman Humwa (Quins), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Daniel Taabu (Mwamba),   Augustine Lugonzo (Homeboyz), Tony Omondi (Mwamba), Edmund Anya (Impala), Kevin Wekesa (Kabras), Timothy Mmasi (MMUST),  Alvin Otieno (KCB) and Amon Wamalwa (Homeboyz).