UDA aspirants in North Rift are engaged in tight last-minute efforts to woo supporters with only a week before primaries. The most hotly contested seats are those of governor in Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet. Deputy President William Ruto's allies are battling for survival against newcomers and veterans. Primaries are scheduled for April 14. Most aspirants have invested heavily in their campaigns for the last one year. Some started grassroots campaigns more than two years ago. It's do-or-die. Uasin Gishu, which is DP Ruto’s home county, has seen a high number of his allies battling to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago. The governor aims to run for Senate on the UDA ticket. Vying are former envoys Julius Bitok and Sarah Serem, politician Jonathan Bii, Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Ngenyilel MCA David Sing’oei and former Nairobi Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo. “We are expecting free and fair primaries as promised by our party," Bitok said. "I believe I have the best manifesto, the people can judge my ability to take the county to the next level." Some leading aspirants are engaged in private negotiations, offering each other the running mate position, to team up and consolidate support ahead of the primaries. Reports indicate Bitok and Bii, who are the leading aspirants, have offered running mate positions to other aspirants. They want the two to drop out and back their separate bids. These reports have not been confirmed by front runners. In Nandi, Governor Stephen Sang is battling to save his carrier against an onslaught by lawyer Allan Kosgey and a team calling itself the Nandi Kwanza Alliance. It brings together former Governor Dr Cleophas Lagat and Nandi Assembly Speaker Joshua Kiptoo. Kiptoo agreed to step down and be Lagat's running mate. Finance expert Antipas Tirop is also in the race. “This is the team that will save Nandi county from bad leadership that has stagnated our development," Kiptoo said. In Elgeyo Marakwet, former Police IG Joseph Boinnet is running against Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich. The tight race includes educationist Josphat Sawe and university don Dr Joyce Jemencho. The top aspirants in the three counties are now going door to door in rural areas. They will wrap up with major road shows next week ahead of primaries. The aspirants are also putting in place teams of agents to ensure the voting and counting is free and fair. UDA said it plans to invite foreign and local observers to witness the primaries. The party has sought consensus wherever possible but where it's not, then primaries will be held. UDA has hired 100,000 polling clerks, 128 presiding officers and 47 returning officers. (Edited by V. Graham)