Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth has explained why he does not support DP William Ruto for his presidency bid. Speaking to Nation during an interview on Saturday, Kenneth said the true colours of Ruto have come out through his troubled relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “This country requires a person who is not chest-thumping, not arrogant, a person who does not feel entitled or that he is above the rest. That is very important for a country,” he said. “Leadership requires humility even when under stress and you can clearly see the statements from the DP, especially over the past year, really scare a lot of people. You can actually see vengeance in his heart.” Kenneth said on the other hand Raila had sacrificed for Kenya and should be given an opportunity to serve the people. “Raila has a history in our country, a history of fighting for liberation, a history of fighting for fairness.  His records are right as a Kenyan in my view. What I have been able to notice is his easy connection with the common person,” he said. “I also feel that, of all the candidates who have offered themselves for the presidency, he is the right candidate to hit the reset button for the country on a lot of things that bedevil us so that we can move forward as a country. “ Kenneth, successful business man and one time MP, has been pushing for his place within the Azimio matrix, accompanying Raila on his presidential campaign trail across the country. He has also been very aggressive and forceful as the battle for Raila’s Number Two takes shape. However, there is a group of strategists around the President said to be in favour of governor Kinyanjui to deputise Raila. Then there is an emerging faction mainly made up of MPs who what Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua to deputise the ODM leader. “There is no doubt that camps have emerged, making Raila’s options even harder,” said an MP from Central Kenya aware of the behind-the-scenes intrigues. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya is also being touted as a way of locking Mt Kenya where Ruto has been making significant inroads.