Knec is planning mass cancellation of KCSE exam results in Northern counties, says Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. Duale said the cancellation is under the guise that the candidates engaged in cheating. The legislator who spoke during a graduation ceremony of Madarasatul Tawheed Al Islamiya in Korakora town on Sunday, said they will not accept such attempts. “As leaders we are keenly watching and eagerly waiting for the results before we can take our next course of action,” Duale said. The KCSE exam ended last Friday. Marking begins this week and results are expected before schools reopen for the new calendar year on April 25. “We know the statement that was issued last week by the DCI was meant to prepare us for cancellation of our children's exam. "We want to tell the government and the Education CS George Magoha that we are prepared to challenge such acts in court, if they end up doing so,” Duale said. He said he doesn't understand why Knec would target the region, when exams were being managed by supervisors, invigilators, security officers and other top officials. Last week, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations identified Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties in Northeastern as examination cheating hotspots. Following the announcement, students who sat for the exams and their parents have been unsettled, not knowing what to expect when the results come out. Findings by the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau of the DCI show that the region is responsible for the growing cases of illegal exposure of national examination materials. The probe revealed that almost all KCSE exam materials recovered during a recent crackdown on examination cheats, were impounded in the three counties. The DCI listed the three counties as notorious for exam leakage following results of a forensic examination on the mobile phones of four students. The students were arrested on March 20 over their possible involvement in the crime. Cases of impersonation have also been reported even as sector players fear that Knec and the Ministry of Education may have dropped guard. Stakeholders have warned that exam cheating will water down gains already made if not checked. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)