Leaders in Vihiga have come out to condemn political polarisation as political tensions rise in the country ahead of the General Election. Addressing boda boda riders in Ebunangwe resort, Governor Wilber Ottichilo said an election is a day’s event, which should not be given room to ruin what people have achieved over the years. “This country is ours and we are here to stay. So we must safeguard it. If we are going to land into cheap propaganda of ruining it, then we have no other place to go,” he said. “I want all those leaders seeking to be elected for any position to sell their agenda to Kenyans, and once they have done that, you, the people, will decide on the ballot.” Ottichilo told the youth that they have the mandate to choose who to lead them without engaging in violence or politics of abuse. He said politics of hate speech, abuse and misuse of youths should not be given room at any cost. “And you, the youth, do not just be there for hire just because of cheap alcohol that later on leaves you suffering,” Ottichilo said. He said already, there are signs of trouble, so politicians must be reminded to lower their political temperature. Ottichilo urged the youth to only buy good ideologies from politicians who seek their support, further appealing to them to ignore those who are in politics for chaos and hooliganism. He called on young people to be ambassadors of peace at all times. The county boss urged the political class to tone down their attacks, saying it is not of any help at the moment. "We should create a fair and cool environment to run our business, and that can only happen when we have a peaceful transition in the forthcoming General Election," he said. Luanda MP Chris Omulele said politics is not an art of war that people have to shed blood for in every transition period. He said a peaceful transition will be a plus to Kenya's economy, as most businesses will go on without destabilising the country's revenue. Earlier, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati warned leaders and aspirants drumming up politics of division that may lead to mayhem that they won't be spared at any cost. "It's my prayer that all of us who are out there for campaign ensure you do it peacefully for a peaceful elections," he said. He was speaking at Kima Mission, while attending the funeral service of the late Florah Muchilwa, the wife to the late Sheldon Muchilwa, former MP of the larger Emuhaya constituency.