American biotechnology firm Moderna has begun exploring potential sites to set up a vaccines manufacturing facility in Kenya. The team led by chief legal officer Shannon Klinger met with the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday to discuss the project. According to a statement by the Health ministry, the team is in the country on invitation of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “They are in town to explore where to situate the factory and they will be visiting potential sites in Nairobi and its environs,” the ministry said. The team is also expected to visit the Kenyatta University Teaching, Research and Referral Hospital facility to see a vaccination site and get a tour of the cancer care centre. Others in the delegation include Roland Rocafort, Moderna senior vice president, facilities and engineering, head of corporate security, Dean Geribo and policy director at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck Congressman Ed Royce. Also present at the meeting were representatives from the US embassy in Nairobi led by Adam Ross, the economic officer. “The plan is to ensure that the setup of the establishment is as smooth as possible and happens in the shortest time possible,” Kagwe said. “The country is committed to ensuring Moderna's objectives because the country and the region will benefit." Once completed, the manufacturing facility in Kenya will be the first in Africa to produce Messenger RNA vaccines, including Covid-19 shots. The agreement that was witnessed by the President in State House Nairobi, will see Moderna establish a state-of-the-art mRNA facility with the goal of producing up to 500 million doses of vaccines each year. The company anticipates investing up to Sh60 billion in the facility which will focus on drug substance manufacturing for Africa and could also be expanded to include fill and packaging capabilities at the site. Moderna is also working on plans to allow it to fill doses of its Covid-19 vaccine in Africa as early as 2023, subject to demand. “Battling the Covid-19 pandemic over the last two years has provided a reminder of the work that must be done to ensure global health equity. Moderna is committed to being a part of the solution,” Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel said. “We believe that this step will become one of many on a journey to ensure sustainable access to transformative mRNA innovation on Africa and positively impact public health." This comes amid mounting pressure on biotech firms to share their expertise with manufacturers in countries that desperately need more coronavirus vaccine doses. Moderna's Covid vaccine brought in $17.7 billion in sales in 2021 and has been cleared for use in more than 70 countries including Kenya. (Edited by Tabnacha O)