A section of women from Kirinyaga have endorsed Governor Anne Waiguru to be Deputy President William Ruto's running mate during the August 9 polls. Speaking on Tuesday under the aegis of Kirinyaga People's Forum, the women said among those being fronted for the running mate position in the United Democratic Alliance and Kenya Kwanza Alliance, Waiguru is the most suitable candidate. The women said Waiguru has the academic, experience and energy to work for the nation as the deputy president. They cited Huduma Centres, Ifmis system and unmatched development projects that Waiguru has implemented in the country and in Kirinyaga County as reason enough for the nation to trust her for the job. "During her tenure as the Cabinet Secretary for Devolution, Waiguru implemented life changing programmes that continue to touch lives of all Kenyans. Talk of the Huduma Centres, talk of Ifmis and the slum upgrading projects, Waiguru is best candidate for the running mate position," Caroline Muriithi, the group secretary said. The group stated that in order to help bridge the gender equity gap in the country, Ruto should consider a woman as his mate. “We know our DP Ruto is committed to issues of gender equality, we now ask him to consider our daughter Waiguru as his number two because she has all it takes to be a Deputy President and as women we also want to be fully represented in government,” Rebecca Muriithi, a member of the group said. Governor Waiguru said that she would readily accept to be Ruto’s running mate if he nominates her. Waiguru who has been fronted by various quarters as one of the most suitable candidates to deputize Ruto also said that such nomination would be a great step towards achieving gender parity in the country. “It would be great honor to deputize William Ruto and if he saw it fit that I would complement him and support him, I would accept it,” She said. However, Waiguru pointed out that even as such a move is awaited, her focus at the moment is entirely on Kirinyaga where she is defending her gubernatorial seat. She said that increasing women participation in politics is a step towards the achievement of 30 per cent women representation and there has to be deliberate efforts by leaders to offer opportunities for women to participate. On Mt. Kenya politics, the governor said that Ruto still commands the majority following while Raila’s popularity keeps on diminishing. “We have looked at the trends and the people of Mt. Kenya are not changing. If anything, they are increasing their support for UDA and for the deputy president,” said Waiguru. She said Raila’s campaigns in the mountain region has no impact since majority of voters have already made up their minds to support Ruto. the governor pointed out that President Uhuru’s support for Raila’s candidature has cost the latter more votes since Kenyans perceive Raila as “a project that is being imposed on them.” “He has also lost ground to UDA in many areas where he previously enjoyed support” said Waiguru citing the Western, Ukambani and the Coast where the Deputy President has garnered increased support base." She said that even though UDA is a relatively new party, it has now come of age and has proven to have the capacity of running its affairs professionally which was demonstrated in the recently conducted nomination which had very minimal instances of dissatisfaction.