Imenti South MP Kathuri Murungi wants Agriculture CS Peter Munya to deputise the Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kathuri, who is affiliated to Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza, said Munya is best suited as Raila's running mate. He said Azimio leaders should reduce their ego and rally behind Munya. “Time inasonga (time is running out). What is the advisory committee for?” Kathuri said on Monday. In February, Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea said he will ditch UDA and shift to ODM if Raila picks Munya as his deputy. He said he would rather lose while campaigning for a Raila-Munya ticket than be in Ruto’s camp. Kabeabea said though Ruto has promised him the position of chairman of the transport committee in Parliament, Munya is his brother and he cannot afford to betray him. The MP spoke while inspecting the construction of the Mikinduri-Kunati-Gacibine road. He also launched developments projects at Kaathi and Kiguma Primary Schools. Early this year, Senator Mithika Linturi, after announcing his gubernatorial bid said he has nothing against Munya and wishes him well in his endeavors. Kathuri, Linturi and Kabeabea are ardent supporters of DP Ruto. In Azimio, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, his deputy Titus Ntuchiu and EALA MP Mpuru Aburi have urged Raila to pick Munya as his deputy. Aburi said there are consequences if Munya won’t be picked as deputy. He said Munya obeyed President Uhuru Kenyatta and shelved his Meru gubernatorial bid in February. The legislator said Munya did not resign despite calls by Meru residents to vie for the governorship he lost to Kiraitu in 2017. Aburi said the President’s most trusted servant is Munya. He said there is a deal between Munya and the President and Munya will be nominated as Raila’s running mate. Others mentioned as possible Raila's running mates are Martha Karua and Peter Kenneth. A seven-member committee was formed last week to evaluate all candidates over the weekend. The committee is to propose two names to Raila and Uhuru for the final decision. Jubilee Party fronted Munya and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho for the position. ODM, Jubilee and Wiper have two members each, while small parties have one nominee. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)