Menengai Oilers' quartet of Geoffrey Ominde, Clinton Odhiambo, Beldad Ogeta, and Edward  Mwaura have been drafted into the 32-man Kenya  Simbas squad for the Currie Cup slated for Saturday in South Africa. The four impressed the technical bench during Menengai Oilers' run to the Kenya Cup final where they lost to Kabras 34-20. Head coach Paul Odera said the quartet has earned their places in the squad. “They have done well for their club and we hope they bring flair and intensity to the team as we start our tour this weekend,” said Odera. Odera said despite the training hiccups and challenges faced in the last month or so, the team will be ready for their opening match against Valke in Johannesburg on Saturday. "The mood in the team is upbeat despite the issues we have had. Our long-term goal remains to qualify for the World Cup and the Curie Cup gives us a good platform to do that,” added Odera. The former skipper thanked the Kenya Rugby Union for their support. “This tour would not have been complete without the sacrifice of the members of the board led by the chairman Oduor Gangla and his team.  We are grateful for the opportunity as well as the support that the South African Rugby Union have granted us,” said Odera. Kabras Sugar's Dan Sikuta will skipper the side and will be assisted by Kenya Sevens' talisman  Collins Injera and Elkeans Musonye. Injera will link up with the team from May 1 to replace Jacob Ojee due to work commitments. The Simbas will be in South Africa for two months and will face South African provincial sides Border Bulldogs, Bolanda Cavaliers, Leopards, Griffons, South West Districts Eagles, Eastern Province, Zimbabwe, and Georgia. Kenya's match against Georgia which was slated for March 26 will be rescheduled to a later date. The top four teams qualify for the semifinals slated for June 18 and the final a week later. Squad: Forwards: Ian Njenga (Nondies), Edward Mwaura (Oilers), Andrew Siminyu (University of Johannesburg), Coleman Were (Oilers),  Brian Waraba (Quins), Patrick Ouko (KCB), Ephraim Oduor, Joseph Odero, Brian Juma (Kabras); Oliver Mangeni (to be replaced by Brian Ndirangu), Thomas Okeyo( Joburg University), Clinton Odhiambo (Oilers), Shem Joseph, George Nyambua (Kabras); Bethuel Anami (Strathmore), Brian Amaitsa (Nondies), Dan Sikuta (captain) and Elkeans Musonye (Impala). Backs: Samuel Asati (KCB), Brian Tanga (Kabras), Brian Wahinya (KCB), Jone Kubu (Kabras), Andrew Matoka (Strathmore), Timothy Omela, Beldad Ogeta, John Okoth (Oilers), Vincent Onyala, Peter Kilonzo (KCB) Derrick Ashihundu (Kabras) Jacob Ojee, Darwin Mukidza, Geoffrey Ominde(KCB). 