Former President Mwai Kibaki will be laid to rest on Saturday, April 30, at his Othaya home, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has announced. Speaking after the inaugural meeting of the National State Funeral Steering Committee, Matiang'i said the State funeral service will be held on Friday at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. "We have finalised preliminary plans for the state funeral of His Excellency President Mwai Kibaki and I would like the public to know that this will take place on Friday the 29th of April 2022 at National Stadium," he said. His body will lie in State at Parliament building for three days from Monday for members of the public and the country's leaders to pay their respects. Matiang'i said the condolences book will be available for signing in parliament on Monday afternoon. "For those who are in Nairobi who would like to visit the family, this will happen on Tuesday and Wednesday at Kibaki's Nyari Office. We are going to provide details of the map to the office," he said. "This is where members of the Diplomatic corps or any senior members who may wish to visit the family to convey their condolences will go to the Nyari office on Tuesday and Wednesday... we are going to set up a facility at the Othaya CDF office in Nyeri for members of the public because it is centrally located in town and it will give members of the public and leadeers from that part an opportunity to also visit and pay their respects." The CS added that the committee will issue a comprehensive statement and plan on Sunday with details of other activities that will happen between tomorrow and the date of burial. Kibaki died on Friday at the age of 90. His demise was announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday. Uhuru remembered Kibaki as a brilliant debater and an earnest friend to many. "We remember the values by which he lived, the ideals he embraced, his dignity and diligence, his candour and concern for the well being of all Kenyans," Uhuru said. Kibaki served as the third president of the Republic of Kenya from 2002 to 2013.