Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has announced that she will not vie for any seat and will instead focus on national politics. Chege, who had earlier indicated her ambitions of succeeding Governor Mwangi wa Iria, was recently gazetted as a member of Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance. The second-term MP said she had chosen to focus on the future, unlike many politicians who concentrate on the elections. Chege said her second term has been difficult as the majority of her supporters criticised her decision to join Azimio, which does not enjoy much support in the county. “Today, I am here to ask for your blessings to engage in national politics and to explain why I decided to stick with Azimio la Umoja,” she said. While meeting her supporters at Murang’a Teachers College on Saturday, Chege said she has not been coerced to support the President and is also not out of sycophancy. She said she has visited most parts of the country to drum up support for Azimio. Chege said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga made it possible for the government to focus on development. She said without the handshake, the numerous roads, electricity and water projects that have been implemented would have been impossible. “When the Jubilee government started experiencing difficulties, many made such strong sentiments against the President, yet his efforts were to keep the country united,” Chege said. “He brought in Deputy President William Ruto in 2013 and brought in Raila after the last election, which made it possible for Kenyans to go about their daily activities,” she added. With 106 days to the August polls, Chege appealed to her supporters to make wise decisions during the elections. “Know whether you’re casting your vote just to vote for someone or for the next generation, but remember history will judge you. I know some things that you may not know and that is why I am asking you to support me,” she said. The MP urged the people of Murang’a to embrace and support the Jubilee Party, saying it is a political outfit for the Central region. Other regions have their own outfits that are supported by residents, she said. She said she does not understand why many Murang’a residents are supporting a party that is based in another region. “If you leave your home to visit someone else’s home, you will always be treated as a guest and will not be involved in decision-making. Who said that we should insult each other just because we are not in the same party?” Chege wondered. She said with her new political position, she will be able to support Murang’a residents more and pledged to continue with her programmes such as sponsorship that has benefited more than 400 students. Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe hailed Chege as a humble leader who started supporting needy people before she joined politics. She said Chege helped her start off her career in the media industry and supported her when she joined politics. “You wanted her to become governor but there may be something better out there for her,” Wanjiku said. Edited by A.N