Former President Mwai Kibaki has been hailed by farmers and leaders in the North Rift for strengthening agriculture, education and the economy in general. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, his deputy Daniel Chemno and Moiben MP Sila Tiren said the region immensely benefitted from the Kibaki leadership and his death was a blow to the country. Tiren led farmers at a meeting where they listed Kibaki’s contributions to the economy in the region including revival of New KCC, strengthening institutions like the Agricultural Finance Corporation and ensuring better prices for farmers. “As the farming community we join Kibaki’s family in mourning his death but we celebrate the strong legacy he lives behind as a leader who cared much about the welfare of farmers and the country’s economy,” Tiren said. He said the country’s leaders should  emulate Kibaki’s leadership, which was based on nationalism and not self-interest. Mandago and Chemno said Kibaki had laid a strong foundation for the country’s economy by prioritising infrastructure development and initiating free and primary and secondary education. Kibaki focused on an economic model that was aimed at creating wealth for Kenyans. “He wanted every Kenyan to work hard and earn a decent life,” Mandago said. He also noted that Kibaki’s contribution to the fight against corruption was immense. Mandago said Kibaki will be remembered in Eldoret for awarding a charter to the University of Eldoret, which is now a leading educational institution in the country and region. “The late Kibaki valued constitutionalism and the rule of law hence his efforts to strengthen national institutions during his tenure,” Mandago said. On Friday Mandago led county workers to observe a moment of silence in hounour of Kibaki. Other county chiefs in the region including Elgeyo Marakwet’s Alex Tolgos and Stephen Sang of Nandi also mourned the passing of Kibaki, terming him a great leader whose contribution to the country’s economic growth would always be remembered. “He leaves a very strong legacy for our country and we join his family in mourning Mzee Kibaki’s death. He will always have a place in Kenya’s history,” Tolgos said. Tolgos said some of the major projects in the region including roads, agriculture and water sectors were initiated by the former president. “He also tried his best to end banditry in Kerio Valley and as a county we will always value his efforts,” Tolgos said. Edited by Henry Makori