Recent party primaries in Wajir have led to fallouts and distrust among subclans. The nomination exercise reshaped the county's politics as aspirants try to put teams together in the hunt for the 200,000 votes. The Jubilee Party gubernatorial nomination was the most impactful as three strong candidates from the Fai subclan of the larger Degodia hotly contested the ticket. Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi declared he will seek re-election on an independent ticket after the party handed the certificate to Dr Hassan Mohamed on Monday. Former CAS for Environment Mohamed Elmi was also locked out. Abdi who clinched the seat on Jubilee ticket in 2017 said Hassan is a none-starter and a set back to the party. “I thought the ruling party’s nomination would be a serious exercise, but the party chose to award the certificate to someone who doesn’t know where to begin in the county clan-politics. "I have a feeling the party was not interested in a person who can deliver the seat, but I am ok with the decision and will defend my seat on an independent ticket,” he said. Elmi is also set to appeal the decision to the political parties tribunal. The late entrant in the county top seat race is said to be also considering running as an independent candidate. However, Elmi told the Star he is yet to reach that decision. The ODM party last week awarded their nomination certificate to former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi alias Jiir. Abdullahi joined forces with one of his 2017 challengers Ahmed Muhumed alias Ato, picking him as a running mate. The two are the major beneficiaries of the Jubilee fallout, if both Elmi and Abdi do not endorse Hassan as the sole Fai subclan flagbearer. Elites from the major subclans have bitterly fallen out, contesting for various posts on different parties. Fai subclan, which comprises of Odosuge and Lobage is so divided that Elmi’s section, the Lobage, is hesitant to back an aspirant from Odosuga. The Odosuga side has produced three candidates; Jubilee’s Hassan, Ugas Shiekh of ANC and incumbent Abdi. Abdi’s deputy who was once at the helm of the county for nine months, Ahmed Mukhtar was also nominated for the governor position by the Ogaden council elders in February. However, Mukhtar who comes from the Mohamed Suber section is facing rebellion from the Muqabul and the Bahgeri subclans. They accuse him of trying to exploit the bigger clan platform which he betrayed in 2017, after bitterly opposing the clan nominee Ahmed Muhumed, now Abdullahi’s running mate. In Wajir North, Senator Ali Abdullahi alias Kabreta is contesting for Wajir governorship on a UDM ticket. Ali was overlooked by the Ajuran council elders last December, who picked Shallow Abdullahi and Maimuna Osman for senator and woman rep positions. Shallow and Maimuna are contesting on a UDA ticket. However, Ali believes he will bag the votes of the Ajuran as he is the sole gubernatorial candidate vying from the community and for the first time. Former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi has aligned with Senate aspirant retired colonel Abdirahman Ali Maalim of ODM who hails from the Ajuran clan of Wajir North. The alliance is eating into the vote base of Senator Ali. As time ticks towards the August polls, aspirants are expected to begin a rigorous campaign at the end of the holy month of Ramadan. Abdullahi who is the sole candidate of his Matan subclan from Wajir West, told the Star his team will hit the road as early as next week. He promised his opponents a gruelling battle for the county’s top seat. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)