@robertomollo3 Some Homa Bay residents want the ODM National Elections Board to allow them nominate candidates ahead of the August 9 polls. Residents from Rangwe, Homa Bay town, Kabondo Kasipul, Kasipul and Suba South constituencies on Friday protested against the ODM party for allegedly planning to give tickets without primaries. Led by Opondo Obunga, Tony Maxwell, Munira Anyango, Gordon Owiti, Jane Adoyo and John Aura they asked the party NEB to conduct primaries on April 14 as scheduled. Obunga said issuing direct tickets would lead to ascension of wrong leaders to power. He said Homa Bay lagged behind in development in the current government and they do not want a repeat of the same. “ODM party has started giving direct tickets for nomination. We are not pleased with this decision because it will make unworthy leaders come to power,” Obunga said. Maxwell said issuing direct tickets can cost the ODM party many seats in the general election. “We will vote for independent candidates if ODM does not rescind its plans to give free tickets to candidates in this county,” he said. Anyango and Adoyo said Homa Bay residents need leaders who can transform their lives. They said the Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital is in pathetic state and lacks drugs due to poor political leadership. “Voters know aspirants who can serve them well. But such leaders cannot be elected if the nomination is done on our behalf by the ODM party,” Anyango said. Owiti said they are not going to elect leaders because of a political party. “We are going to consider credentials of leaders. Let them watch the results after August 9,” he said. Aura said more than 90 per cent of Nyanza residents are supporters of ODM leader Raila Odinga hence all aspirants should be treated with fairness. “Issuing direct tickets mean some aspirants are being discriminated against,” he said. The complaints come as ODM is engaging aspirants in the region, to achieve a consensus over the tickets. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)