Three people were on Wednesday killed and one injured after bandits attacked a village in Baringo North subcounty. George Chebor from Ngataraku village was shot dead while pursuing his stolen herd of cattle at Lemuyek, Baringo North-Tiaty border, around 2pm. Resident Richard Chepchomei said Chebor was shot in the back and head, dying instantly. The body was still lying at the volatile scene by the time of going to press on Thursday. Tension remains high in the area. Another herder, Francis Changwony who was also pursuing the armed bandits, was shot and injured. He is currently being treated at the County Referral Hospital-Kabarnet. During the attack, the bandits stole 34 heads of cattle and 55 goats. Baringo North OCPD Fred Odinga said the residents together with the police recovered only five cows. “Our officers are currently on the ground pursuing the bandits to recover the remaining stolen animals,” Odinga said. On Thursday morning, the bodies of two other men, Stephen Chelal and another unidentified person, were found in a pool of blood with gunshot wounds in Chebilat, near Loruk-Marigat highway. “Investigation is still ongoing to ascertain if the deaths are linked to banditry or highway robbery,” Odinga said. Since December, more than 30 people have been killed, thousands displaced and hundreds of livestock stolen by bandits. However, residents have appealed to the governemnt to move with speed and address the insecurity issue in Baringo North and South. “We have been left to die like rats yet we are in an independent and peaceful country. Where is the government? Chepchomei asked. In February the government deployed 30 National Police Reservists to Baringo North and 70 in Baringo South. However, Chepchomei said the number is too small to tackle the armed bandits. County Commissioner Abdirisak Jaldesa had earlier urged the residents to stay calm saying the government has put up measures to end banditry. “We are committed to restoring peace and resettling the displaced victims,” Jaldesa said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris