The Azimio One Kenya Alliance led by ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta is staring at turbulent times after a section of its members emerged with fresh demands. Eight fringe parties that are members of the Azimio One Kenya Alliance are now threatening to walk out if their grievances are not listened to. In a press statement on Wednesday, key officials of the parties raised concerns over the lack of inclusivity and consultations in making key decisions in the coalition. Among the issues raised by the group is the feeling that the Azimio leadership is made up of three parties including Jubilee, ODM and Wiper leaving out other members who the group say founded the coalition. The group has also lamented over being sidelined in the making of the coalition document, so much so that they have not seen the document yet they are being pushed to sign. "Coalitions agreement documents have not been shown to us and yet they are insisting that we should sign. We will not agree to this," Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua who read their joint statement said. The group also expressed reservation on alleged planned zoning saying they will not be a party to it. "Our candidates have already registered their candidature with our parties and they have an equal right to be on the ballot," the joint statement added. " There is an attempt to run nominations through zoning. Our candidates are already prepared to compete and zoning has no place in the current arrangement. The eight parties that Mutua said raised the grievances include MCC, Muungano, Kenya Reform Party, CCU, DAP-K, PPT, NARC, and Maendeleo Democratic Party. The group has now christened itself as the Mwanzo Mpya caucus and wants itself included as the fourth leg of the Azimio stool. The group added that they will have to seek an alternative path if their grievances are not respected. "There are currently no provisions for us to be on the elections board. We insist to be also included and having a voice since we represent a significant voting bloc. The so-called big parties have already appointed themselves portfolios at our expense. We can form our own coalition and enter into a post-election agreement." Other demands raised by the group include renegotiation of the coalition document, scrapping of zoning, deposited coalition document at the registrar of parties should be withdrawn, all decisions henceforth should be through consensus including on all nominations. The group noted that the choice of Azimio One Kenya Alliance running mate should be through consensus just as it was agreed on the presidential candidate. Present at the meeting that gave birth to the statement was DAP-K secretary-general Eseli Simiyu and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana among others. Edited by B. Marita