Top candidates in the 2021 KCPE exam have all been selected to national schools of their first choice. A spot check by the Star reveals that most students will be enrolled to Alliance Boys or Alliance Girls. The top candidate Bruce Magata has been selected to join Alliance High School while Shantel Ndinda from Kitengela International will join Mary Hill Girls. “I am excited and I promise to work hard. When I grow up, I want to be a robotics engineer,” Magata told the Star. The Gilgil Hills Academy alumnus scored 428 marks. Naomi Wekesa was selected to join her dream school, Kenya High while Ethan Karuga from Stepping Stone Preparatory has been placed in Murang’a High. Others who have been selected to Alliance schools include Abdul Hakim Halkano Wachile of Moi Forces Academy Nairobi who scored 421 marks, Faith Apiyo from Kitengela International and Garo Mumina. Education CS George Magoha urged parents to be satisfied with the placement of their children. He further called out ‘rich’ parents who may want to take up slots left for the vulnerable. “Do not flood my office because we have done justice and I want to be remembered for helping the less fortunate, where I belonged before I became CS,” he said. Nanyuki High School received the highest number of applications for Form 1 admission. The Oliver Minishi- led school received 156,003 applications against a capacity of 480 students, followed by Kabianga High with 149,087 applications. The CS however warned school heads against keeping children away from school due to fees arrears. “Don’t stop a child from going to school, if you do that, I am still the head of this ministry and I will come for you,” he said. This being the fifth cohort of 100 per cent transition, Mgoha said he will conduct a mop-up of students just like last year. Last year, the CS went around slums picking vulnerable students who had missed out on admission due to financial crises. The Elimu scholarships have so far benefited 18,000 students and 9,000 more are set to be beneficiaries this year. Magoha said members of the public should report any extra levies and learners who will have missed admission. However, he called on well-wishers to prioritise sponsoring students in boarding schools since there is free secondary education. This financial year, the government released Sh62 billion under Free Day Secondary Education. The government further provides Sh22,244 to cover tuition and related expenses for all public secondary school students. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)