Following the death of the third President Mwai Kibaki on Friday morning, Nairobi MCAs and leaders have sent their message of condolences to the family. Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu said the late Kibaki will be remembered for his economic legacy, and passion for education. “I urge Nairobians to emulate the good legacy left by the former President who led Kenya into economic prosperity and introduced the free primary education initiative. May the Almighty Rest his Soul in Eternal Peace. Go well Mzee Kibaki,” Kananu said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja euologised the late former president as a man of great wisdom. “Go well Your Excellency. Today is a sad day for Kenya. Your legacy lives and is clear for all to see. I met you at the beginning of my leadership journey and have never forgotten all the words of wisdom and advice you imparted on u,” Sakaja said. Nairobi County Assembly Majority leader Abdi Hassan sent his message of condolences to the family of the former president, stating that Kibaki was a true leader and a game changer in politics. "We are saddened by the death of the former President Mwai Kibaki. He will be remembered for steering the country into economic prosperity during his tenure 2003-2013.” "He will be greatly remembered for gifting parents and children the Free Primary Education which shall be remembered with fondness for directly touching lives of many Kenyans. Our prayers are with his family,” Guyo added. “It is sad to say goodbye to a man whose legacy we all have felt. In this sad moment of great loss, therefore, let us still rejoice because of what he did for his countrymen and countrywomen,” Paul Kados, Majority Whip said. In her condolences message, Deputy Whip Waithera Chege said the late Kibaki fought for the democratic space that Kenyans are enjoying today ‘Sincere condolences to the family of the former president and Kenyans. He will fondly be remembered for transforming the Kenyan economy. The roads infrastructure we are enjoying today and free primary education was in his masterplan ,” she said.