UDA has assured aspirants in Taita Taveta county that the party primaries will be fair and no one will be favoured. The nominations are slated for April 14. While meeting aspirants in Mwatate on Tuesday, UDA's Coast campaign team leader and Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said they are engaging aspirants in consensus talks to avoid costly primaries. “Consensus is our top priority because we want to field strong aspirants in all positions. Most of our aspirants have agreed to team up, so we shall not hold primaries in many parts of the county,” Mvurya said. Mvurya said aspirants who have not yet agreed on who would fly the party ticket have been given more time to talk. He, however, said in the event that consensus is not reached, the party shall ensure that nominations are free, fair and transparent. Some of the most contested posts include the senatorial ticket that pits youthful aspirants John Righa and Nathaniel Noti. Others are Maungu ward seat where incumbent Waweru Kang’ethe will face activist Idris Mohammed. In Kaloleni ward, Fatuma Salim will face businesswoman Mary Kamau, Robert Kegen and Albashir Mwalozi. Mvurya expressed confidence that Deputy President William Ruto’s party will win many seats in the August 9 polls. He said the party has attracted hundreds of candidates across the region despite being new. “We are now enjoying a massive following at the Coast. We are urging our people to embrace the six-piece voting pattern so that we can have many elected leaders,” Mvurya said. Mvurya said UDA shall serve as a perfect alternative for the region, further promising inclusivity should Ruto win the presidency. “People from the Coast have been sidelined in leadership despite supporting ODM and Jubilee. UDA brings change,” he said. Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika disclosed that consensus talks with different aspirants were at an advanced stage. She said the party may not conduct primaries in the county. Haika together with former Governor John Mruttu said UDA hopefuls are ready to face their opponents on the ballot. “All is set for our team and we are soon going to hit the ground with rigorous campaigns,” she said. Mruttu asked aspirants to lead by example by promoting peaceful campaigns and allowing their opponents to sell their agenda to the people. He said political intolerance was a threat to the country, urging the police to take necessary actions against politicians found fanning violence. (Edited by Tabnacha O)