Garissa has reported more than 146 cases of fistula over the past two years, Garissa Health executive Roble Nunow says. The executive who spoke during a fistula event on Tuesday, said only 54 per cent of women in Garissa deliver in a medical facility. The increasing fistula cases in Garissa have been blamed on retrogressive cultural practices such as Female Genital Mutilation, child marriages and home deliveries. Fistula is a condition where women leak urine and stool after giving birth. It is a common occurrence when a mother undergoes prolonged and obstructed labour. In turn, the women suffer from shame and stigma because of their incontinence, which gives a foul smell. Nunow said men should take a hands-on-approach and ensure women do not suffer from fistula, which is preventable and treatable. “As men, we should ensure our wives and sisters attend regular clinic during pregnancy. They should also give birth in a medical facility where complications will be promptly dealt with,” he said. Garissa county director for Women Education and Health Development Fatuma Ali said most fistula cases are as a result of FGM, rape and child marriages. She said most girls are married off to older men at a tender age, exposing them to what they can't bear. “We are currently handling a case of a 13-year-old girl who was raped. She was then taken through the cut a few months later and married off. The girl conceived and lost the pregnancy due to fistula,” Ali said. The director said residents should support one another to access treatment. “We all have a role to play, our men are still the decision makers and we need to help our women to access the treatment they need,” she said. Ali said fistula patients should come forward and seek help instead of suffering in silence. She said women affected by fistula are rarely assisted because they do not get to talk about it. Fistula Foundation is collaborating with other development partners to help women in Garissa access medical assistance. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)