Some Kilifi leaders want ODM governor aspirant Gideon Mung’aro to pick Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi as his running mate. Speaking in Kilifi on Tuesday, the leaders said Saburi should be nominated as the running mate after he shelved his ambition to vie for the seat in favour of Mung’aro. “Saburi has a lot of experience in the position after serving Amason Kingi for five years. He was among ODM politicians who were eyeing the Kilifi governor's seat but in his wisdom decided to step down and support Mung’aro. Mung’aro should return the favour,” Abdallah Shalako from Rabai said. Gabriel Kahindi from Malindi warned they will not support Mung’aro’s candidature if he fails to pick Saburi as his running mate. “We have had a meeting with Mung’aro but he has just sent mixed signals. We want to tell him that Saburi has many supporters in Kilifi county and if he fails to pick Saburi, then he should not expect any votes from us,” he said. Saburi said he is ready to work with Mung'aro should he be given the chance. Just like Kingi in his two terms, Mung’aro will pick a running mate from the Rabai community which is part of the negotiated democracy in Kilifi. Since he declared to vie for the seat, Mung’aro has been eyeing Jane Mkoba Kamto, a sister to the first Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto, as his running mate. Kamto is a Rabai. However, Kamto’s choice may not be viable as she failed to resign on time. She is a teacher. The other proposal in Mung’aro’s camp is Jubilee party chairman Nelson Dzuya. Dzuya declared interest in the Rabai parliamentary seat but stepped down after his name was proposed as those who were likely to deputise Mung’aro. “In our meeting, Mung’aro told us the majority of his supporters are for the idea that he picks a woman as a running mate. He made it appear as if it is a constitutional arrangement, but we are not buying it. Our choice is Saburi. We will not relent until he picks him,” Kahindi said. Beatrice Baya, also from Malindi, said the sacrifice Saburi made was big enough to demand a reward. She said Saburi has stood with Mung’aro all along and he should be a gentleman to pick him. “He has always supported Mung’aro ever since he shelved his ambition. He chose Mung’aro against the wish of his current boss. We demand that he takes Saburi for the deputy seat,” Baya said. Edited by A.N