Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga started his one week tour of the US with a meeting with Kenyans in Washington DC. Raila who is accompanied by at least three governors, seven MPs and a host of Azimio leaders explained his vision for the country if elected on August 9. He also explained to the Kenyans in the diaspora his preparation for the August elections and what his plans are after August 9. Raila’s spokesperson Dennis Onyango on Sunday said the town hall meeting with Kenyans marked the beginning of the former premier’s packed program in the US. “This afternoon, Odinga will brief the Kenyans in the US on the state of the Kenyan nation, preparations for upcoming elections and his post-election plans for Kenya,” Onyango said in a signed statement. Raila arrived in the US on Saturday for the tour which will see him meet top US government officials, senior Congress members and selected key African leaders. On Monday, Raila will hold meetings with key players from Cooperate America. The engagement will be followed by another high profile engagement on Tuesday with top officials from the Executive wing of the US administration. “The engagements with the members of the Executive will give way to another meeting with the legislative arm of the US government when Mr Odinga meets key US Senate and Congressional leaders at Capitol Hill,” Onyango said. “In between, Mr Odinga will also engage thought leaders at critical Washington DC think tanks including the Atlantic Council and the Centre for Global Development.” During Raila’s Tuesday engagements, the ODM leader will speak to the US corporations that have supported Kenya through improved investment in the country. “He will brief them on prevailing opportunities in Kenya and Africa, and call for collaboration in the war against corruption. He will brief the investors on preparations for the upcoming election and explain his post-election plans to make Kenya friendly to foreign investments,” Onyango stated. In the Raila’s entourage are Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), James Ongwae (Kisii), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua and former head of Public Service Sally Kosgey. Leaders accompanying Raila are National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi, MPs Richard Tongi (Nyaribari Chache), Memusi Kanchory (Kajiado Central), and Esther Passaris (Nairobi Woman Representative). Others are Homabay Town MP Opondo Kaluma, Homabay Senator Moses Kajwang’, Kathiani MP Robert Mbui and former Kenya Ambassador to the US Elkanah Odembo.