United Democratic Alliance UDA party primaries have been called off in Cherangany constituency, Trans Nzoia County. Aspirants raised a number of concerns over the polls with some saying there were discrepancies in the exercise that kicked off on Thursday morning. While making the declaration at Kipkeikei Boys' High School, the constituency tallying centre, Returning Officer Victor Rotich confirmed the suspension of the exercise. Rotich recalled all the Presiding officers and polling clerks to pave way for further deliberations. "I am asking our presiding officers and clerks to call off the ongoing party primaries as we deliberate and resolve the standoff." Following the Returning Officer's pronouncement, angry voters burnt some polling materials at the tallying centre. The materials were salvaged by security officers who were manning the centre. Burning of the materials led to the confrontation between the supporters of former Cherang'any constituency Member of Parliament Wesley Korir and supporters of the other aspirants in the hotly contested race. The aspirants led by John Njuguna, Julius Tunduria, Joshua Koskei and Shadrach Kimutai called on the UDA head office to disqualify Wesley Korir from the race and to organize for fresh nominations. "Our party leader, the Deputy President William Ruto promised us free and fair nominations. In the spirit of that, we are asking the party's head office to disqualify Korir from the race and to give us another day for nominations," they said. In an interview with K24 digital, Wesley Korir distanced himself from the allegations labelled against him and condemned his opponents for coercing poll officials. "The CRO made the announcement under duress and threats. That is like a coup and I am calling on the party to take disciplinary action against them. They have sensed defeat and the resorting to any desperate measure" Korir said. Despite the cancellation of the exercise, voters were still casting their votes. In our spot check at Noigam and Chepkaitit primary schools, voters were exercising their democratic rights.