United States International University (Usiu-A) Mashujaa, beat Strathmore Gladiators 1-0 in the opening match of the Gold Cup club invitational hockey tournament at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, Nairobi. Captain Samson Ratia scored the all-important goal in the 30th minute to give the John Kabuu coached side maximum points in the week - long competition that ends on May 6. Kabuu said even though the win was deserved the real test awaits his charges against Exchequers of Ghana tomorrow. The four-team tournament also includes Kenya Police. "We played well but we are not up to the standards we demand from the boys. I believe the boys are psyched up to meet the Ghanaians and that will really gauge where we are," Kabuu remarked. "Scoring has been our problem. We've tried to rotate and tweak the forward line but it's a matter of time before rhythm can be established in the final third." His counterpart Meshack Senge warned his players against laxity which he said was uncharacteristic of their performance. The loss is a wake-up call for the students who have only lost once in the league this season. "It was a lucklustre performance considering we neither created nor scored. The reality is we have got a long way to go before this inexperienced side becomes a well oiled team. We demand a response against Police. The tournament has come in handy as we try to minimise our errors before we face Western Jaguars in Kakamega on May 29." Elsewhere, Kenya Police were hammered by Exchequers 4-1 at the same venue. Quansah Emmanuel gave the West Africans a 13th-minute lead before Oliver Echenje drew the law enforcers level in the 32nd minute. Akaba Elikem scored a second for the moneybags before further goals from Kevemor Selorm in the 44th minute and Derrick Selorm's 54th strike condemned Police to their heaviest defeat. Police were without Robert Masibo and Titus Kimutai f while striker Govan Mbeki and Vincent Odindo remain out injured. Police coach Patrick Mugambi blamed individual mistakes for the loss citing a lack of cutting edge in attack. "We got punished for our errors and gave away cheap goals. The squad is depleted but that should not be an excuse. Upfront we were below par." His opposite number Richmond Attipo lauded his players for the classy technical and tactical display. "We knew Police are a physical team than us so we had to utilize our pace and skills. This is good training for us because our championship resumes next weekend. We want to be in peak condition ahead of the national league." Editing by Tony Mballa