Deputy President William Ruto on Friday moved to draw similarities of his humble beginnings and that of the former President Mwai Kibaki. The DP painted the picture of Kibaki’s journey of life which he said started from tending to goats, as having laid the ground for the former president’s successes. “He was a man of great simplicity…his journey of life which started from tending to goats in Thunguri village made him a great scholar and the finest economist the country ever had,” Ruto said. In his campaigns for the presidency, the DP has been positioning himself as one who rose from the sleepy Kamagut village as a chicken seller to the country's second in command. It is this reference that birthed the term "hustler" which is associated with his campaigns to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The DP, during the Kibaki requiem mass, also hailed the former president as the greatest president the country has ever had, and one whose story would shape the presidential race. “I also can see his shadow and influence in what is going to become of the fifth president of Kenya,” Ruto quipped. “I see the conversation around the economy which Kibaki was its architect influencing the coming election.” “He was a distinguished public servant that rose through the ranks, both in opposition and in the ranks and of course, the greatest president Kenya ever had,” he said. Ruto has for long lamented about stumbling blocks by government functionaries keen on killing his dream of succeeding President Kenyatta. In the mass, which was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the DP said Kibaki will be celebrated for leaving a rich legacy which his boss Uhuru has equally borrowed from. “We celebrate his achievements, contribution, and his rich legacy. President Kenyatta has been a good student of President Mwai Kibaki – I know that as his deputy,” ” he said. The Deputy President said the country’s history would not be complete without a mention of the former president’s contribution. “President Kibaki and his history is the history of our country. He was part of the architects of our independence, the first government and made a huge contribution,” Ruto said. He said Kibaki would be remembered for laying a strong foundation for education and infrastructural development and as the architect of the country’s economy. “Kibaki sowed the seeds and laid the foundation upon which our fourth president built the elaborate infrastructure that we see in our country.” The DP further made an attempt to assure the outgoing President of his support after retirement saying he had taken pride in how the government cares for former presidents. “In a quick three years, we have bid farewell to our second president and to our third president…it is a solemn, heavy moment.” “…but I take pride in the heritage we have built as a nation of respecting and honouring our leaders in office and protecting them in retirement and death,” he said. The DP added, “I am confident that together as a nation, we can strive into the future with the confidence and the foundation our forefathers built.” It is not clear whether it is a coincidence or by design that Kenya Kwanza leaders seem to want to paint Ruto as the next “Kibaki” Kenyans should vote for on August 9. During a debate in Parliament on Thursday to pay tribute to Kibaki, Ruto's allies said he was the closest to Kibaki. "The next leader of Kenya must be like Kibaki. And the closest person to Kibaki is none other than DP William Ruto," Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said. -Edited by SKanyara