Governor Jackson Mandago will face an uphill task to win the senate seat in Uasin Gishu after losers in the UDA primaries will run against him asindependents. Former radio journalist Robert Kemei who came third in the primaries on April 24 has confirmed he will run as an independent. Registrar of Political Parties Ann Ndungu  cleared Kemei on April 21 to vie as an independent. Kemei had rejected results of the primaries, claiming there massive interference to favour Mandago. “We cannot accept results of such a flawed nomination exercise carried out by UDA in Uasin Gishu,”Kemei said. In the tallying, Mandago received more than 75,000 votes followed by lawyer Kipchumba Karoli who got slightly more than 55,000 votes while Kemei came third with about 30,000 votes. Karoli could not be reached to confirm reports he planned to run as an independent. But pictures indicating he would still vie were widely circulated in social media platforms. Other reports indicated Kamei and Karoli were considering to join hands to support one of them to defeat Mandago. Analysts in the region argue either way, Mandago will have to fight for August 9. Several other losers who complained of unfairness iUDA primaries have also dashed to secure independent tickets to vie on August 9. In Nandi, MPs Vincent Tuwei of Mosop and Cornel Serem of Aldai will defend their seats as independent candidates. The two tallied second in the primaries, in which massive irregularities were claimed. The margins of their loss in the primaries were slim and analysts say the MPs could still reclaim their seats. Serem lost to former employee at DP William Ruto's office Maryanne Kitany, while Tuwei lost a newcomer Abraham Kirwa In Marakwet West, Lawrence Mutwol who lost to MP Bowen Kangogo will also run as an independent. Mutwol had filed a dispute at the UDA elections tribunal against the win by Kangogo in the primaries, saying the matter was unfairly determined. He said from the on start he had warned he would not allow the will of the people to be subverted. The independent aspirants will have a hard task running against UDA, the predominant party in the region. Deputy President William Ruto will campaign for a three-piece voting pattern for UDA. In Uasin Gishu other MPs who did not join UDA but will run as independents include Dr Swarrup Mishra of Kesses constituency, Silas Tiren of Moiben and William Chepkut of Ainabkoi constituency. A major battle between independent candidates and UDA is expected in Uasin Gishu which is DP Ruto’s home county. Politician-businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki will be running for governor in the region as an independent. (Edited by V. Graham)