Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his allies have intensified calls to have Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga name him as running mate. Though it is not clear whether the question of the running mate is decided, the tone of finality with which the politicians pushed the demand was telling. Kalonzo repeated what he told reporters on Tuesday that there was no point discussing the obvious when it comes to the position. He was addressing aspirants seeking his party ticket to vie for seats in the August 9 polls. Kalonzo also told the aspirants that of the three officials who will be signing the nomination certificates, he is not one of them "because I am getting ready to run in the coming polls." "This will be a party in government and even with the position of deputy president, we will have many more opportunities," he said. "This time, especially in the coalition power negotiations, I am sure some people have said that they have never seen this Kalonzo (who is assertive in pursuing his rights)." Kalonzo has been quoted as saying he would approach discussions around coalition building as a tough negotiator, and that he would not budge. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr was the first to start the demand for the seat, asserting that the deputy president in the Azimio camp must come from Wiper. The Wiper vice-chairperson also urged the aspirants not to ditch the party after the nominations should they lose. MDG party leader David Ochieng took cue from Mutula, asserting that Kalonzo must deputise Raila. He said that was the settlement that stabilised the Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya coalition. His party is one of the members of Oka. Former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko, the party's secretary general Shakila Abdalla and its chairman Chirau Ali Mwakwere were, however, blunt in their demand. While swearing his loyalty to Kalonzo after defecting from Jubilee to the party, Sonko said he would be the foremost defender of the Wiper boss, and that he will be fiery in defending his interests. "Let the journalists get this very well [and tell it to Raila]. We will not accept anything less than running mate for Kalonzo. It is a must," Sonko said to a jubilant crowd. They said Kalonzo has sacrificed his ambitions thrice for Raila and that the only measure of reciprocity he could get is to deputise him. On the question of zoning of parties to avoid splitting votes to the advantage of opponents, Kalonzo also said his party will not accept to be locked out of fielding candidates in some seats in the country because he had recruited strong candidates. "We have candidates right across the country and we don't expect to stop our people from running. What we will agree to in the coalition is to assess every candidate based on their strengths," he said. The party is preparing for primaries on April 13 and 19 in Nairobi and coastal counties respectively, as well as in Ukambani. "We encourage consensus and negotiated democracy. If one member is stronger than you, then it is good to allow them have the certificate," the party's national election board chairperson Agatha Solitei  said. She asked such aspirants to stand down, saying the party will refund those who agree to give way to stronger candidates.  (edited by Amol Awuor)