The newly crowned Africa Zone 3 Boxing light-heavyweight champion Elizabeth Andiego has attributed her landmark victory to proper preparation and hard work. Andiego, 35, pulverized Tekasala Malewu of the Democratic Republic of Congo on her way to the momentous glory. The gallant Kenyan contingent secured a total of 18 medals in the historic swoop to emerge second behind hosts DRC after bagging six gold, five silver, and seven bronze. “We worked well on our techniques in training to get these results. I urge Kenyans out there to keep supporting us so that we can continue to train without any interference,” Andiego said. “I’m satisfied with my achievements so far. I only managed to win bronze during last year's edition in Kinshasa,” Andiego said. She believes the experience she gleaned from the Kinshasa trip has set her on course for a successful medal hunt at the forthcoming World Championship and the Commonwealth Games. “This has been a build-up towards the Africa Championship and the Commonwealth Games. I can say I did my best and I'm happy. The team's performance was also great.” The seasoned pugilist is elated to have marked her return to the ring in style after a past harrowing procedure conducted on her left leg limited her prowess in the ring. The hard-hitting boxer escaped death by a whisker in 2015 when she was caught up in a grisly road accident while riding on a motorbike along Kangundo road in the outskirts of Nairobi. “I thank God for giving me the gift of life. I want to also thank the government and the Boxing Federation of Kenya for enabling us to attend the Championships,” Andiego said. “On my side it's been long since I stepped into the ring. I've not been actively involved in competitive games,” Andiego said. Andiego, says she intends to immerse herself fully in nurturing budding talent, but only after bagging a medal at the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. “I hope to wrap up my career with a Commonwealth medal in Birmingham next year. So if the global games happen to get me in good health, then why not? As she rigorously devotes herself to a noble mission of refining the versatile talent at Kayole Social Hall in Nairobi's Eastlands, Andiego continues to sharpen her own claws too. Andiego boasts of a wealth of experience, having first fought in  2010 in Barbados during the World Championship. In 2014, she went to Glasgow Commonwealth Games but crashed out early in her first bout. Her experience in major competitions includes the Commonwealth Games, All African Games, Olympic Games, World Boxing Championship, and Olympic qualifying tournaments in Barbados and Beijing China.