The Azimio Nairobi team will officially begin campaigning in the capital next week as they seek to consolidate Polycarp Igathe's support for governor. Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party last week introduced Igathe, the former Nairobi deputy governor, as its candidate for governor. Igathe quit abruptly on January 12, 2018, saying he hadn't earned the trust of Governor Mike Sonko. He is a business tycoon and corporate executive. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has joined Deputy President William Ruto's UDA party and will run for governor. Igathe will lead the team on an intense three-month campaign to sell Raila Odinga's coalition. “From next Wednesday, we will begin campaigns in Nairobi,  not as Jubilee or ODM. We shall go by the identity of Azimio," Igathe said on Wednesday at City Hall. He had paid a courtesy call on Governor Anne Kananu who backed out of the race to support him. He has called upon aspirants who lost nominations under Azimio la Umoja to drop plans to run as independents and instead campaign for the coalition. "This is the time to prove your support for the team you wanted to be part of," Igathe said. He emphasised his administration will be "all inclusive". He will first meet county staff to listen to their grievances, as well as pointing out issues and challenges faced by the county. “The first town hall meeting held during this campaign will start with the county workers," Igathe said. Nobody understands the challenges, the problems of Nairobi more than the workers of the Nairobi City County. "I will be calling on them and asking them to come and tell us what they like." He said it is important for Kenyans and Nairobi residents to understand there is continuity in politics, saying politics is not a matter of life and death. Kananu urged residents to support Igathe. "Leadership yetu iliamua hivo kwa sababu ilijua mahali tunaelekea, na kwa sababu iliamini Igathe anaweza. Wengine wetu ningependa kuwaomba." "Especially those who think they can go to independent, I’m asking all of you to focus on our party and support Igathe," she said. “Campaign tutaenda pamoja na mashinani tutaingia pamoja…Mahali tumebakisha na NMS tutakamilisha na Igathe," Kananu added. "I respect my party leaders' decision and I support Polycarp Igathe in his bid to become the fourth governor of Nairobi," Kananu said. "I want to tell all Nairobians you are safe under Igathe. Those in Azimio thinking of going independent, that won't help us,” she said. The governor pledged to join Igathe’s grassroots campaign across the 17 subcounties. "I assure Igathe I shall not sleep until you get are sworn in as the governor." Kananu asked Igathe to further the projects and developments initiated by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. "What Kananu has demonstrated here today is that politics is not war," Igathe said. "It is important Nairobi people see the continuity without necessarily having in-fighting and power battles." "That is the spirit all aspirants need to have to ensure Azimio will take over Nairobi." (Edited by V. Graham)