Nairobi Metropolitan Services has stepped up the upgrading of sewerage infrastructure. Access to sewerage services is only 50 per cent. The move will improve access to quality and sustainable wastewater services and curb diversion of sewage into rivers. NMS Water and Sanitation deputy director Mario Kainga said they are upgrading sewerage infrastructure and improving sustainable management of rivers. The work is part of the Nairobi Rivers Basin Rehabilitation and Restoration Programme. The project, Kainga said, aims to divert wastewater directed into rivers by individual and industrial waste generators. “We have worked on cleaning the rivers and particularly diverting the wastewater illegally directed to the rivers to treatment plants," Kainga said. Currently, NMS is upgrading the sewer system in Kawangaware and Eastlands. The Eastlands programme involves one installation at Eastleigh Jump Street and at Athman Kipande Road. “The project has been designed and budgeted and it will be implemented to make our rivers clean,” he said. According to a 2013 report by the National Environmental Management Authority, even in areas where sewerage systems exist, many households are not connected. The lack of connection is due to the costs of maintaining a connection or poor functioning of the system. All upcoming suburbs in Nairobi lack sewerage coverage. They includeRuaka, Ongata Rongai, Kitengela, Mavoko, Ruai, Embakasi Village and areas around the Eastern Bypass. The only places with proper coverage are city centre and areas around it, including Lavington, Langata, Upper Hill, Industrial Area, areas along Mombasa Road except for inland container depots, and the area bordering Hwa Ng’ombe area. Coverage is 90 per cent along North Airport Road, the whole of Eastlands up to Njiru area, Buruburu, Kariobangi, Dandora, Ruaraka, old city council houses, Pangani, Ngara, Parklands and Eastleigh. Nairobi generates about 525 million litres a day, of which only 350 million litres is converted into sewerage material in treatment plants. The existing treatment system is only able to handle fewer than 200 million litres. Last year July, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Services gave property owners in Nairobi with illegal sewer connections three months to regularise connections with landlords and developers. Houses within 100 metres of the urban utility firm’s sewer line granted a similar grace period to connect their sewers to Nairobi Water’s main line. Property owners with illegal connections will be required to pay Sh5,000 to Sh7,500 for domestic and commercial connections, respectively, to formalise their connections. Developers and landlords will also be charged Sh5,000 and Sh7,500 per connection for domestic and commercial connections, respectively, payable to Nairobi Water. (Edited by V. Graham)