The Qubaa Muslim School has put Mombasa county on the map by earning a place in the finals of the robotics competition Lego League Challenge, which will be held in Texas, USA. Mombasa Innovation chief officer Anwar Ahmed has been visiting the team and monitoring their travel preparations. He says they will look for partners to assist the team prepare well for the global competitions. “What the children are doing is a big win not only for Mombasa and Kenya but the entire East African region. As a county, we will try and support you where we can,” Ahmed says. The chief officer says it was exciting to see pupils from Mombasa participate in such a high-level competition. He says as a county, they want to invest in the future innovators, who will play a major role in transforming the region. “I believe with the right attitude, we will refute the outdated perception that Coastal people do not value education,” he says. “We need to change the attitude and appreciate the diversification we have as a county to promote the digital world and economy.” The Mombasa county government has been working to develop the robotics studies within all the public Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) centres. On March 2, the county government organised the first-ever robotic competition for nursery school kids at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park. This was part of the Mombasa County Early Childhood Robotics Programme targeting ECDE pupils spread across the 104 centres across the county. The robotics programme was launched in February last year and so far, six ECDE centres have been equipped to offer the programme. Six nursery schools were selected for the competition, each was supposed to give out six PP2 pupils to compete in the finals. The centres that took part in the competition include Likoni, Mtongwe, Kadzandani, Utange, Khadija and Jomvu. Utange won in the nursery school competition. Ahmed says the competition was to assess the first batch of pupils, who had benefited from the programme before it was fully rolled out to the remaining 98 public ECDE centres. "We managed to equip six centres and introduce them to the programme last year. The competition targets PP2 pupils to assess what they have been learning," he says. He says they are targeting 30,000 learners aged between four and six years annually in the 104 public ECDE centres spread across the county. "The goal is to equip them with the necessary skills to participate in solving global problems,” he says. Ahmed says the Mombasa government is also going to establish a County Innovation Fund and come up with community-based Innovation Hubs across the six subcounties. These will give the youth a platform to nurture and grow their ideas. Last year, Mombasa received global recognition for rolling out ICT projects that have helped improve services. The county has four projects: Youth ICT Innovations, Online County e-Service, Early Childhood Training Programme and County ICT leadership. The four ICT projects enabled the Hassan Joho-led administration to receive the Best Digital Innovation and Leadership Award during the CIO 100 Africa Symposium Awards at Sarova Whitesands Hotel, Mombasa.