AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems believes his charges are still on the right track despite having played out to a one-all draw against Wazito at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Sunday. The Belgian gaffer believes it's only a matter of time before his striking force gets the elusive sharp edge needed to rip their opponents apart in their remaining fixtures. “I believe we are doing every other thing right except scoring goals but it's only a matter of time and we'll be celebrating more goals in the near future,” Aussems said. “We now have enough options on the bench unlike in the past when our choices were limited,” he added. “The team is still growing, remember most of them were acquired from the academy side and they certainly need some time to gel with the rest of the squad,” Aussems observed. Wazito head coach Fred Ambani was optimistic that his charges would survive relegation despite their precarious position on the log where they are rooted in the second last spot. The moneybags squandered glaring opportunities in front of the goal. “We still have some matches which we can use to our own advantage and survive the relegation battle,” Ambani said. “Today's match was a big improvement. We crushed to Leopards in our first leg encounter and we were tactically the better side this afternoon,” Ambani said. “We are going back to the drawing board to work on our weaknesses ahead of our next fixture. Hopefully, we shall be able to register a positive result when we take to the pitch against our next opponents,” Ambani said. John Mark Makwatta fired Leopards ahead in the third minute from a contentious penalty after referee Peter Waweru ruled that the striker was  brought down by Wazito custodian Zamu Adisa as he charged towards the goal. Michael Otieno should have netted a goal for Wazito in the 15th minute after he was set up by James Kinyanjui in the six yard box, but his header swerved inches wide. Leopards custodian Levis Opiyo was forced to stretch full length to parry away Tyson Otieno's rasping shot in the 20th minute after dancing his way past his markers. The outcome leaves Leopards 10th on the log with 35 points while Wazito are 17th with 21. Elsewhere, Oliver Maloba's 58th-minute strike was enough to hand Nairobi City Stars a well-deserved win against Ulinzi Stars at Ruaraka Grounds.