Special Olympics Kenya will present a team of 76 athletes to next year's World Summer Games slated for June 17-24 in  Berlin, Germany. The sports manager for Special Olympics Kenya, Vincent Mungai, said Kenya will be represented in 10 disciplines and will be led by 19 coaches. They include football (girls), volleyball (both boys and girls), beach volleyball (both genders), basketball (3 X 3) boys, handball boys, athletics, golf (girls), Bocce, cycling, and badminton. "Rules for special Olympics are unique in that for every four athletes, they must have a coach. Based on this, we will therefore take 19 coaches to the world show," Mungai said. Regional trials will be done in June this year in the Western, South Rift, North Rift, Central, Nairobi, Eastern, North Eastern, and Coast regions. "Thereafter, the team will proceed to a residential training camp for between three-four weeks. Depending on the political climate, the national trials will be held before or after the General Elections," Mungai added. Special Olympics caters to people with intellectual disabilities. Kenya became the first African country to register for the Special Olympics in 1978 and boasts 70,000 registered special Olympics athletes in different specialties. The events feature a minimum of three and maximum eight participants per discipline. Anybody who participates is given a participation award as long as he or she has entered into the competition. World Winter Games that were to be held in January 2023, Kazan, Ukraine have been cancelled owing to Russia-Ukraine feud. In the meantime, Special Olympics Kenya will in June hold a Law Enforcement TorchRun that seeks to sensitise inclusivity of persons with disabilities and peace across the nation. The three-week event, which will run from June 2- 25, will be conducted in Nairobi, Kiambu, Nakuru, Eldoret and Mombasa. The TorchRun will also be used as a fundraiser for the global event. Special Olympics will partner with National Cohesion and Integration Commission to preach for peace during the electioneering period.