Retired President Emilio Stanley Mwai Kibaki, the third President of the Republic of Kenya died on Friday, April 22. His death was announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta in a televised address from State House, Nairobi. The national funeral steering committee for the late president led by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i announced that Kibaki will be buried on April 30, at his Othaya home in Nyeri County. The State rolled out events that will precede Kibaki's burial scheduled for Saturday, April 30. President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta will lead the nation in paying tributes to the late President, as well as their last respects. The cortege will leave Lee Funeral Home at 07:05 am on Monday escorted by the family of the Third President and will be conveyed to Parliament with the casket covered with the National Flag. The Solemn Procession from the funeral home will go through Valley Road and Kenyatta Avenue through to Parliament Road. A Military Guard of Honour will be mounted along Parliament Road for the entry procession into Parliament. Kibaki’s body will be received at the Parliament by President Uhuru alongside other state officials on Monday at 10 am. The body will lie in state for the next three days (Monday to Wednesday). On Tuesday and Wednesday, the public will have a chance to view the body of the retired President and pay their last respects between 9 am and 5 pm. Members of the Diplomatic Corps and other dignitaries wishing to visit the family of the former President may do so at his Official Office in Nyari, off Redhill Road Nairobi between 9 am and 12.00 noon on Tuesday and Wednesday. The official signing of the Condolence Book of the Third President will be launched by the Head of the Public Service and the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on Tuesday, April 26, at Harambee House at 9 am. Condolence Books will also be availed at Kibaki’s office, Parliament Buildings, Supreme Court of Kenya, all Ministries Offices, Council of Governors Head Quarters, all Regional and County Commissioners Offices across the Country, and in Kenyan High Commissions, Embassies and Missions Abroad. On Friday, the national state funeral with full military honours and protocols will be held at Nyayo National Stadium. The state funeral procession will make its way from State House to Nyayo Stadium. Full military honours and protocols include; the conveyance of the body of the former Head of State under escort in a Gun Carriage, accompanied by Military Musical Honours and a 19 gun-salute. The national state funeral memorial service will be interdenominational and led by the Catholic Church. The funeral will be attended by among other dignitaries from all over the world. Final rites for President Kibaki will be held on Saturday, April 30, with a memorial service at Othaya Stadium and he will be buried at his Othaya Home, next to his late wife Mama Lucy Kibaki.