Jubilee supporters in Eldoret have protested the decision to issue direct tickets to aspirants, whom they termed unpopular. They said they were surprised after the party issued the certificates without efforts to build consensus among aspirants. Party officials led by Kuria Kiburio said the issuance was done without consultations with grassroots leaders. “We have invested heavily in the party and we will not allow officials in Nairobi to mess us, because we now stand to lose seats which we would have won easily,” Kuria said. The complaints comes after the party issued direct tickets to some aspirants on Wednesday. The certificates were given to ward representatives in Eldoret. Kimani Wanjohi was issued with a certificate to vie for the Huruma ward seat, a move that angered supporters of Maina Matokeo. "Huruma is one of the four seats we were sure of winning, however we have been messed up because the party did not consult before giving out the certificates," Kuria said. Huruma ward is one of the largest with more than 30,000 registered voters and is currently represented by Lucy Chomba, who has joined UDA. Supporters said they were targeting to win the Langas, Kapsoya and Kiplombe MCA seats and others in Nandi and Trans Nzoia counties. They blamed Jubilee deputy secretary general Joshua Kutuny for allegedly misadvising the party to hand over the direct tickets without proper consultations. Moses Barasa, a party official in the region, warned that those who were unfairly denied the tickets may opt to vie as independents and complicate Jubilee's winning chances. Eldoret is a UDA stronghold but Jubilee still enjoys support in Eldoret town. Elsewhere, a row has intensified over a decision by ODM to issue direct tickets to aspirants in the North Rift. ODM branches in the North Rift said most of those issued with tickets have not been members of the party. Members of the Luhya community also protested after reports that Kiplombe MCA Ramadhan Ali was denied the ODM ticket. “I have had reports that someone has been issued with the ticket but I am waiting for official communication from the party headquarters,” Ramadhani said. He has twice won the ward seat through on an ODM ticket. (Edited by Tabnacha O)