Judy Wanjiru Kibaki, the daughter of the late President Mwai Kibaki, has poured glowing tribute to his father, describing him as a mentor and a loving father who always had time for his family. Giving her tribute at the burial ceremony of his father, Judy said that his father was a tolerant and patient who instilled key values in them. She said that despite his busy schedule by virtue of the high offices he held for more than 30 years, he always created for them. "He drove me to school when he did not have important early morning appointments. He attended the Parents Teachers meetings when they were convened and listened keenly to what the teachers had to say about my progress or lack of it," she narrated. She added that she learned patience from him. "He taught me that nothing good comes instantly. You must work hard at it. “Stay focused” he often said." Judy acknowledged that the family 'shared' Kibaki not just with his constituents, but with the rest of Kenya and the world. She said that even though people often wondered how such a high-ranking leader could have time for his family, Kibaki had time for his children. "He blocked off his diary when we were on school vacations and took time to be with us." " When our birthdays rolled around, he hosted our friends in the garden of his home for our birthday parties. Ever the jovial personality that he was, he would invite my friends’ parents to stay on and be part of the celebration," Judy said. Judy said that the late President's life was a tough balancing act that he managed well. "He found time to fly to the United States to attend my University graduation which was on a Sunday, flew out of the US the same night, was back in Nairobi on Monday night and was able to participate in his then Political Party’s Election on Wednesday morning." Judy pointed out that Kibaki's Political Victories were hard-won battles. "I was in the thick of his four Presidential Campaigns. They were not easy." The firstborn daughter further said that Kibaki kept his political life and family life separate. She added that the third President was a Democrat even in his own home. "He knew I had other interests I wished to pursue, and he encouraged me to do so. He did not want to make me into a replica of himself." Judy said that Kibaki wanted her to grow into a well-educated focused individual, with a strong character and a unique defined personality. Which was also a dream he had for every Kenyan. "So, he worked at it all his life, because he sincerely believed that a nation of 'well developed' individuals, would surely prosper to great heights. This was Dad’s Vision." She described Kibaki as a humble man who dedicated his life to the service of Kenya. Judy added that it can be learnt from her father's life that victory can be gained Peacefully. "Dad was peaceful at home and in his work."