A man was shot in the head by a gunman near Kiwanja Ndege Primary in Marsabit on Tuesday. Adano Issako Sora, 19, is admitted in hospital. The motive of the attack was not known but officials said the trend where people are targeted and shot by gunmen in the town is now the norm. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the government is likely to embark on a special operation involving special units in Marsabit. He said the decision to deploy the officers is however subject to approval by the National Security Council. This comes after the lapse of a 30-day window pleaded by local leaders to give room for peace talks. The CS made the remarks while addressing the Anglican Church of Kenya bishops conference in Nairobi. Matiang'i said the Marsabit conflict is linked to political and ethnic profiling and balkanisation. Dozens of people have died in separate clashes in the past months. The issue has spread to Isiolo where five people were killed by suspected bandits on a retaliation mission on Monday. An attendee had asked Matiang’i if the government has failed to deal with persons fanning the chaos. “People are dying on a daily basis; we have cried to the highest office. I am a bishop who is non-partisan but I do not feel safe in Marsabit,” the bishop said. Matiang’i said the government may soon launch a special security operation to end the ongoing inter-ethnic violence between some of the communities. “There is no part of Kenya where one group of people speaks about their neighbours the way they do in Marsabit. It reminds you of the situation in Rwanda,” he said. The two communities have been encouraging armed militia to attack each other and kill. The CS said in the last attempt to broker truce between the two groups, the elders requested the government to give them 30 days for peace talks. “There is only one option left to the issue of Marsabit and we will take it. Those who sit in the National Security Council know what this option is. No one should blame the government when this action is taken,” he said. Matiang’i said special units of security agencies embedded with police will be deployed to the counties. He said the situation is aggravated by politics of expansionism, drought, rough and vast terrain and proliferation of arms sneaked in through porous borders. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)