The government has started reviving the multi-billion Tana Delta Irrigation scheme which collapsed after the main intake was blocked as a result of the diversion of River Tana. Authorities are sourcing for Sh1.6 billion to complete the entire revival which will see the area begin large-scale rice production on 12,000-acre land. Already the first phase of the project, which includes the opening up of a new intake channel, is complete and water is now able to reach the farms. Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Betty Maina, PS Belio Kipsang, and other top ministry officials toured the project being managed by Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority to oversee the work being done. Maina visited the new Kitere intake channel for the Tana Delta project, which was developed at a cost of Sh35 million. She said the government is committed to reviving the irrigation project which is key in addressing food security and in line with the Big Four Agenda. "The other thing which is evident is that even as we wait for our rice development to be restarted this factory with a little bit of maintenance has a capacity to mill for other corporations so we need to get it running,” she said. She said the milling plant requires Sh5 million to revive its current technology, but for it to be fully revived in the latest technology, it would need  Sh70 million. Once its in operation Maina said it would be possible to get the private sector to join in and partner with them. Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority managing director Liban Duba told journalists they require Sh1.6 billion to completely revive the project. However, he said it would be done in phases due to financial constraints. Duba said the government would play a much more facilitative role in terms of infrastructure extension services, training and desertification, among others and leave the rest to private sector to do the actual work. He said the project will be able to irrigate a 12,000-acre farm of rice though initially, the authority managed to irrigate only 4,200 acres. On his part, the PS said the project will help the community and wildlife in the area who depend on the water from the channel. He said there are a lot of investments done by the government such as schools and hospitals, which will help the community stay and not migrate due to the availability of the project. Residents interviewed thanked the government for reviving the project and setting up a bridge in an area that used to be dangerous as they were using canoes to cross.  (edited by Amol Awuor)