Africa's top deaf golfer Isaac Makokha has been backed to help his teammates to excel at the upcoming Deaflympic Games in Caxias do Sul. Makokha competed in 2017 in Samsun, Turkey, and finished fifth overall and the first in Africa in the aftermath of the 23rd edition of the quadrennial games. Deaf Golf Federation of Kenya president Daniel Ogembo says Makokha is a positive influence on Adan Wario and Gilbert Alikula and can help the duo perform well in their debut at the Deaflympics. "He can mentor the rest because he has many years of experience and has won many things. He is the best in Africa as was shown in 2017 and knows what it takes to participate at an international level. He keeps improving and has enough experience to coach the other two," Ogembo said. The Eldoret-born is also the first deaf golfer to compete in the Magical Kenya Open in September 2020. Last year in October, he won the Kenya Amateur Match Play Championship at 72 Vet Lab Sports Club course. Ogembo says they are bullish about the team's chances because everyone has improved immensely thanks to consistent competition against their hearing counterparts. "The players have really improved ever since they started competing against their hearing counterparts. Last time, Makokha was number five and this time we have more representatives. We believe everything is possible and our target is to make the country proud by winning a medal," he said. A second appearance in deaf golf for Kenya at the Deaflympics has Ogembo dreaming of unearthing more talents in the sports. He believes that schools should be the first stops for talent scouts. "We want to spread the game to the schools, empower and nurture young talent. There are so many young deaf people with very good sporting gifts to tap into. We also want to partner with other organisations to provide these talents with the resources they need to improve," Ogembo said. The federation is currently in the process of full registration after which they plan to embark on the process of identifying opportunities to compete. "We want to register so we become a fully-fledged federation. The players need more opportunities to compete and gain experience. Not forgetting awareness about deaf golf," he said. 