Two women are the first Kenyans to undergo open heart surgery at Kenyatta University and Teaching Hospital. The surgeries were done this week, making KU hospital the third public facility after Kenyatta National Hospital and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to offer such services. Several private facilities also offer the service. KU hospital chairperson Prof Olive Mugenda said they aim to conduct at least two heart surgeries every week. “We have a fully installed cath lab and such surgeries will continue to be provided at affordable services, funded by NHIF and other insurers,” she said. A catheterisation laboratory or cath lab is an examination room with diagnostic imaging equipment used to visualise the arteries of the heart and the chambers of the heart and treat any stenosis or abnormality found. “We continue praying for the speedy recovery of the patients. I want to thank NHIF for fully funding the cost of the open-heart surgeries,” she said. Mugenda said the doctors involved included cardiologists Robert Mathenge, David Kanyeki, and cardiovascular surgeons Chege Munene, and Albert Ruturi, who were also the lead surgeons. Other surgeons were Mishra Bashir and Makori Sagini, while the anaesthesiologists were doctors Isaac Adembesa, David Waruinge and Killian Kariuki. Dr Adembesa said both patients are still hospitalised for recovery. “The first one is 33 and the other 40 years old. One had mitral valve replacement and another aortic valve replacement,” he said. A mitral valve separates the two chambers on the left side of the heart and allows the blood to keep moving forward. It is often repaired if it is hardened and prevents blood from moving forward or if the valve is too loose, and blood tends to flow backwards. The aortic valve also keeps the blood flowing in the right direction in the heart. Replacement involves removing a faulty or damaged valve and replacing it with a new valve made from synthetic materials or animal tissue. This kind of surgery involves cutting through the breastbone, into the chest. It is a major operation that can last two hours or longer and recovery often takes several weeks, doctors say. However, there are newer, less invasive procedures only done at certain hospitals. Deputy director of clinical services Dr Onyimbo Kerama said each operation cost about Sh1 million. “The NHIF pays about Sh500,000 which is for the inputs. The valve costs about Sh200,000. There's very little top up on that and the rest is human cost. We don’t charge human cost, which is taken up by the government, that’s the genius about this programme,” he said. Prof Mugenda also drummed up support for the hospital’s cancer programme. She said they have scanned more than 600 patients with the PET Scan machine installed earlier this year. “We’re also in the process of acquiring a second medical linear accelerator (LINAC) machine for radiotherapy. We’re also installing the first cyberknife in East Africa,” she said. Edited by A.N