Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina has joined calls for better remuneration for Nyeri Early Childhood Development Education teachers. Maina said on Sunday that the teachers should be earning more than the Sh10,000 and Sh12,000 they are currently receiving as monthly pay. The Nyeri governor hopeful said the teaching fraternity has not been regarded with the due importance and respect they deserve by the county. If elected governor, he said, education will top his priority list and that the teaching fraternity will be at the centre of management and all development activities in the county. Maina said he was disturbed that education standards have declined in Nyeri, especially ECDE. He spoke to the media after a meeting with the teaching fraternity from the county at his Lusoi home in Kieni. The meeting was meant to discuss education and other matters affecting the county. “We have underlined the importance of education and I want to state here that in the coming government of Nyeri, education will be given priority so that thee county can go back to where it was,” he said. The teachers, through their spokesman Charles Mwangi, who is the Knut branch executive council member for Nyeri Central, called on the county to consider rolling out a scheme of service for the teachers, if any, so that they can be paid well. “We hear that some counties are paying them well and so I don’t think Nyeri should be left behind. Just do justice to these teachers so that they can form the foundation of this country,” he said. Mwangi said ECDE teachers should be encouraged and motivated with proper pay because it is the only way the education sector in the country can be supported and improved. The senator and the teachers also held prayers for the family of the departed former head of state President Mwai Kibaki who comes from Nyeri and asked residents to continue praying for the family. Kibaki, whose death was announced Friday by President Uhuru Kenyatta, will be laid to rest at his Kanyange home in Othaya, Nyeri county, on Saturday. “Mzee Kibaki will always be remembered forever for his love of this nation and his exemplary leadership which took this country strides ahead economically,” the senator said. He said Kenyans will also remember fondly his commitment in the fight against corruption and theft of public funds that saw the country make major economic strides where the growth of the economy grew by 7.5 per cent. Maina called on the country's leadership to emulate Kibaki by using their positions to better the lives of all Kenyans.  (edited by Amol Awuor)