Gospel singer Sammy Boy is serving a life sentence at Naivasha Maximum prison for a crime he says he did not commit. Sammy, famous for his Kikuyu song, 'Noira Tu (it's just yesterday)', says his trouble started after a friend left some households in his house. It was later discovered that the items were stolen and the owner had reported it. Speaking to Inooro TV, prison edition, Sammy said he had no idea the goods were stolen, only for them to be traced to his house by the police. He ended up on remand for three months since the family friend was nowhere to be seen. Luckily, he was released on an Sh1.2 million bond, but he gave out his title deed since he didn't have the cash. "Here, every step of your life is planned by the authority. It is not an easy life," he said. "You live incomplete in jail. My songs are now a true testimony to me. I am now suffering because of someone's mistake." Sammy regrets that he has since lost everything he had worked for, including his family. "The ladies we get married to are young and they want to see your presence every time," he said. "Once you are not in their lives for a year or so, just forget about them. They will move on. Your family is taken away by someone else. I had a wife and a son. When this case started, we disagreed in some ways and we separated." The family friend who had given him stolen goods later died in a road accident on Thika road. "He told me he was moving out and he would come for them. The items included phones and laptops. He said after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, he was affected financially and he could no longer afford a lawyer. "I was convicted last year of robbery with violence. My jail term started this year in February, and my journey started." He said they were friends but did not know the kind of jobs he operated. "There were other people arrested with me, but two ran away. I didn't know any of them." He said the complainants were white people. He recently sent an appeal and hopes he will soon be set free. His advice is that people should be careful with people they call their friends. "Make sure you know what they do. As artistes, we get people who want to be associated with us." Jail life is not an easy task but he said he keeps himself busy by teaching the illiterate inmates.