Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has yet again reiterated that Deputy President William Ruto's running mate will be from the Mt Kenya region. This comes even as the IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati told the Star that they expect Presidential candidates to pick their deputies before April 28. “We expect to know their running mates on the date when they submit names of the nominated candidates...either themselves as independent candidates or through the party, if a political party candidate, this being April 28,” Chebukati said. The pronouncement now gives Raila and Ruto up to Thursday next week to name their running mates. In an interview with KTN News on Sunday, the outspoken legislator said among the several pacts they sealed with DP as Mt Kenya leaders is the running mate slot. Gachagua noted that the making of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance does not change the earlier agreements made between them and the DP. "One of the things we had discussed with him is that whatever we had agreed earlier cannot change drastically to the disadvantage of the Mt Kenya People because the new friends have come," Gachagua said. "What I am saying, in short, is that the Mt Kenya region should get the running mate slot" On public spats between him and ANC leaders over the DP slot, Gachugua said he is in the Ruto camp to advance the interest of the Mt Kenya region. Despite acknowledging the huge contribution brought by their coalition partners, he noted that what was agreed between them as Mt Kenya leaders and the DP remains intact. "When I speak, I don't speak for ANC or the people of Western Kenya, I represent and fight for the interest of the people of the Mt Kenya region in the DP's camp," he said. "There coming has been a very big boost and it has given a fresh impetus to our team." The choice of a running mate is an uphill task both in the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance led by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ruto's Kenya Kwanza Alliance. Political analysts have billed the choice as a potential deal-breaker in both alliance even as the two top presidential aspirants race against time to pick their preferred deputies.