National Under 20 head coach Robert Ngisirei says their minimum target for this year's World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia is 10 gold medals. Having clinched 16 medals on home soil last year — eight gold, one silver, and seven bronze — Ngisirei believes the sky is the limit for this year's current crop of juniors considering they will have more time to train. "This year, we are praying to God that we win at least 10 gold medals in Colombia. We believe in these juniors and know the target is attainable. All they need to do is keep their discipline and maintain training even while in school," Ngisirei said. Kenya's medal haul at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, was the largest by a country at the Under 20 level and extended their dominance at this competition, having led the medal standings at the previous edition in Tampere, Finland in 2018. The August 17-22 show was preceded by athletics training camps across the country where the juniors honed their skills amid a crippling Covid-19 pandemic. Ngisirei credits these camps for unearthing talents from all corners of the country. "Previously, many of those who made the final team were from a certain part but last year we saw that they were quite diverse. There were those from Western, some from Rift Valley and others from Eastern and so on," he said. Ngisirei, a teacher by profession, added: "These were the fruits of these camps, which were made possible by the government and Athletics Kenya. This is why we adopted the same strategy this year to prepare for the World Under 20 in Cali." He has been part of AK youth development sub-committee officials touring 26 camps across the country to motivate junior athletes who have been training therein for the past month. The camps will compete against each other in regional championships before these regions battle it out at the national trials in July at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Ngisirei is predicting cutthroat competition between the athletes. "This time things will be quite tough because most athletes are hungry for success and want to board the plane to Colombia. Last year, certain camps produced as many as five athletes in the national team but I project it won't be the case this year...maybe one or two athletes at the maximum," he said. The coach further encouraged those who may fall at the first or second hurdle not to despair but to keep working hard in training. "We have been talking to the juniors, telling them that not all of them will realise their dreams. We try to make them understand that today it may be your friend but then tomorrow could be your day in the sunshine," Ngisirei said. He added: "We will continue following up on those who don't make it. That's why we are asking the government to continue facilitating these camps so as to keep discovering and nurturing more talents...even those who did not make it to these camps this year."