A family in Mikindani, Mombasa is demanding justice for their kin who allegedly died while in police custody. Andrew Musakale, 47, was on Monday morning arrested for allegedly failing to pay Sh57,000 debt. He was taken to Mikindani police station. At the police station, Musakale is said to have fallen ill and died while being taken to hospital. However, the family has refuted the police report saying, their kin died while at the station. Billy Musakale, a brother to the deceased, said Musakale’s wife had told the police her husband had diabetes and high blood pressure. “I got a call from my elder brother informing me of Musakale’s arrest. Later I got yet another call that Musakale was being taken to the hospital after he was taken ill and later died,” Billy said. He said despite his arrest, he was never booked at the station. Efforts to get a comment from Jomvu subcounty police commander Peter Maluki concerning the incident were futile as he said he was in a meeting. Born in 1975, Musakale was a businessman and an aspirant for the Jomvu Kuu Ward on a United Democratic Alliance party. Amal Said, Musakale’s daughter, said her father was on Monday morning at around 11am taken from his Mikanjuni home to the police station. “My father called me while at the police station saying he had been arrested. I pleaded with the officers to release him due to his medical condition, but they ignored me,” she said. Amal said her father was on medication. She questioned why her father was never booked in the police Occurrence Book records after the arrest. “The police told my father to stop pretending, he was not sick,” she said. Amal said they were ready to settle Sh18,000 as part of the amount owed by her father. “The officers did not have a warrant of arrest,” she said. She appealed to the national government to help the family get answers to the death of her father. “I will not relent until we find justice,” Amal said. Alexander Mbela, a rapid response officer at Haki Africa said they have contacted the Independent Policing Oversight Authority to investigate the matter. “The police took him from his sickbed at home. Why was he arrested yet this was a civil case and not a criminal case?” Mbela asked. He said Musakale was illegally detained. “We will push the government to take action against the police officers involved,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris