The Kenya Ports Authority is to begin test runs of oil dispatch from the Sh40 billion new Kipevu oil terminal at the Port of Mombasa on Monday. Energy and Petroleum CS Monica Juma and her PS Andrew Kamau on Thursday evening toured the facility to confirm the state of preparedness ahead of the tests. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to commission the facility before leaving office. The CS said the new facility is a game changer as Kenya moves to become the biggest petroleum products handler in the region. “This is a very important project in the energy and petroleum sector. We can all appreciate the scale of this magnificent infrastructure,” Juma said. She said once completed, the new oil facility will ensure Mombasa assumes its place as a commercial hub not just for Kenya, but for the region and the West Indian Coast. “The facility will have value in terms of increasing the efficiency of receiving and dispatching fuel products to our people. “It will cut time and ensure that bigger oil ships can dock here. I can confirm that we are ready to go. PS Kamau will be here on Monday for the tests,” the CS said. Uhuru who inspected the facility in January said it will save Kenya Sh2 billion annually in demurrage charges. The new oil terminal is an offshore facility located midstream at the Port of Mombasa, opposite the existing Kipevu oil terminal constructed in 1963. The project consists of an offshore island terminal with four berths whose total length is 770 metres and one work boat wharf in Westmont for landing facilities. It also has five sub-sea pipelines buried 26 metres under the seabed for future dredging of the channel without interfering with the pipes. There are risers each dedicated to separate oil products and six onshore pipelines each for a separate oil product. The pipelines connect the terminal to the Kenya Petroleum Refineries and the Kenya Pipeline Company storage tanks. Once completed, the new terminal will have four berths capable of handling six different hydrocarbon import and export products. It will also be fitted with a Liquid Petroleum Gas facility, crude oil and heavy fuel oil. The terminal also has provisions for handling three types of white oil products including aviation fuel, diesel and petrol. It will accommodate three ships concurrently with a capacity of 200,000 tonnes each. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)