The family of Thomas Magero Oluk, who notified the world about Jomo Kenyatta's detention in Turkana, wants the government to give him national recognition. They said their father contributed a lot to the struggle for freedom in the country but has never been recognised or given any award. Oluk was a member of Mau Mau, registration number 51028. Oluk, from Kowidi village in Kabondo-Kasipul constituency, died on March 25, aged 89. He was buried on April 12 at his home. His son, Malachi Opiyo, said only people in Rachuonyo and Homa Bay county recognised his contribution to the independence of the country. “We are appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and ensure the late Mzee Oluk’s name is placed somewhere as one of the people who fought for freedom in Kenya,” he said. Oluk started the struggle for independence in 1955 when he was working at the Ministry of Public works. During that period, most of the Mau Mau captives were being detained in Turkana and Kapenguria. Oluk was posted to Lokitung, Turkana, where Kenyatta was being detained. Malachi said his father, while working at the camp, heard a man groaning in pain and he became curious. When he checked, he realised it was Mzee Kenyatta who had been tortured. “After the discovery, my father could not keep quiet. He travelled to Kitale and told two media outlets (Baraza Newspaper and BBC) what he had seen. They published the story of how Mzee was being tortured," he said. After the story was highlighted, Kenyatta was shifted to Kapenguria, where he met other detainees–Kung'u Karumba, Bildad Kaggia, Achieng Oneko, Fred Kubai and Paul Ngei. They are famously known as the Kapenguria six. Oluk was then posted to Kapenguria. His son said his father used to give the detainees water and at one point, a prison warder caught him sharing his water with the six. He was accused by the colonialists of being one of the six. Malachi said his father was subjected to humiliation and his lower six teeth were removed to prove that he was a Luo and not part of the detainees. Malachi said his dad stayed in hospital for 40 days following the incident. After recovering, he escaped to Uganda where he trained as a driver. Malachi said while in Uganda, former trade unionist and Cabinet minister Tom Mboya facilitated his return to Kenya. Mboya also secured him a job as a driver at the East African Breweries Limited, where he supplied liquor to Uganda and other East African countries. Oluk did not stop there. Due to the humiliation he was subjected to by the colonialist, he joined the Mau Mau war and would supply the fighters with various equipment and food supplies. “We could hide equipment used in the war and supplies such as food, clothes and water,” Oluk said in earlier interviews. Malachi said Kenyatta recognised the role his father played in the fight for freedom and promised him 100 acres in Koru, Kisumu. “This was now in 1967, but some very powerful people ensured the President delayed in giving my dad the title deed for that particular land,” he said. Malachi said Kenyatta kept on saying that Oluk should be given something. “This was delayed until Mzee Kenyatta passed on in 1978. This dashed our dad’s hope of getting what President Kenyatta had promised,” he said. He said they wrote a letter about the issue when President Daniel Moi was in power but they were told the promise Kenyatta made to his father was done on personal grounds and there was nothing the regime could do. Edited by A.N