President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to visit Murang'a for a major event organised by the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa in Kandara on Thursday. The event will be the first for Uhuru in Central after he endorsed ODM leader Raila Odinga as his preferred successor. It coincides with the countrywide nominations of Deputy President William Ruto's UDA party, with Mt Kenya seen as the DP's new political bastion. There were also speculations that Ruto will attend the church event although this is unlikely because of the UDA primaries. If the speculations are true, it will be the first time the two would be sharing a room after months of verbal exchanges in the political podiums over the August 9 election. The President is expected to have an extensive tour of the Kandara constituency after the AIPCA event. He will be accompanied by Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria, MPs Sabina Chege (Woman Rep), Wangari Mwaniki (Kigumo), Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga), aspirants Kembi Gitura and Jamleck Kamau, among other Jubilee MPs. However, Ruto's allies, including Alice Wahome (Kandara MP), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Irungu Kangata (Senator), and Mary Wamaua (Maragua) are also expected to attend the church ceremony. About 12,000 AIPCA faithful, drawn from across the country, are expected to attend the National Holy Oil Consecration event at Gakarara. The visit is coming at a time the President has been under sharp criticism for taking too long to roll up his sleeves to campaign for his preferred successor Raila in Mt Kenya. Uhuru is said to be faced with the dilemma of whether he should schedule tours of Mt Kenya, amid fears he might be heckled by planted crowds. This is amid expectations that his word would help define the direction the region would take, more so among the many undecided voters. His backers said there was nothing for the President to fear as he has made his position clear on the succession debate. Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi told the Star they are adequately prepared to accompany the President on the tour, saying it is expected he will address residents. “We met as area leaders under the Jubilee banner and agreed we will receive the President and accompany him to all the stops he would make,” the MP said. The service will be presided by Archbishop Samson Muthuri, Amos Njoroge and Fredrick Wang'ombe whom the President in 2020 helped to reach a truce. Two years ago, the three bishops signed a memorandum of understanding to lead the church for one year each before an election in 2023. Archbishop Muthuri said the event will help to cement the unity of the church over the past years. “We invited President Kenyatta to witness the unity that he had wished for and being the Easter period, the unity of the church is paramount,” he said. Muthuri further said they will achieve this by holding a joint lent olive oil for the year 2022 as a united church before Easter. “This event will unite us more than ever and Uhuru as a symbol of national unity will strengthen our unity and love.” During his last visit to the constituency, President Kenyatta promised Kandara residents the construction of Sh500 million Bildad Kagia hospital, a medical training institute and several roads. He is expected to launch the projects after the church service and drum up support for Raila. Murang’a Deputy Governor Maina Kamau said the President was welcomed in the county. Mount Kenya Jubilee MCAs caucus chairman Charles Mwangi Ngang’a said the President's visit will be part of the campaign strategy. He said the recent meeting where Uhuru hosted 3,000 elders from Central Kenya marked the revival of the ruling party. Ng’ang’a said immediately after the nominations, Uhuru will traverse every constituency in Mt Kenya to campaign for the Jubilee aspirants.  (edited by Amol Awuor)