Independent hopefuls and nomination losers in Kericho have been urged to drop their bids and support UDA aspirants in the August general election. Independent aspirants for the governor seat, Elijah Maru and engineer Samuel Rotich, were on Saturday urged to team up with the winner of the UDA primaries to campaign for Deputy President William Ruto. Eric Mutai, who won the Kericho UDA ticket for the governor race, said losers in the party primaries and those going for various seats as independents will be given jobs if DP Ruto wins the presidency. Mutai and his running mate Fred Kirui said South Rift is preparing for vigorous presidential campaigns. “I'm appealing to the electorate in the region to support Ruto's bid,” he said. Mutai also urged residents to support all those who won UDA tickets, from MCA to governor aspirants. “We will ensure losers in the UDA primaries and those who have come out as independents are considered for jobs at county and national levels,” he said. “For the DP to have an easy win on August 9, we should prepare well in Kericho, Bomet, Nandi, Uasin Gishu and the entire Rift Valley.” Mutai said if he is elected governor, he will govern the cosmopolitan county without discrimination, favouritism and nepotism. “I cannot do that single-handedly unless I get support from my competitors for the governor's seat,” he said. Mutai was speaking to supporters at the county tallying centre at Kericho Tea Boys Secondary school where he was announced the winner. He said he has strong challengers but he hopes residents will elect him and his running mate Kirui. "We have to rally behind DP Ruto in his quest to succeed his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Mutai said. In the UDA primaries, Mutai won with 126,038 votes. Former CS Charles Keter was second after garnering 60,342. In the Woman Representative contest for the UDA ticket, incumbent Florence Bore lost to Beatrice Kemei. Bore got 64,651 against Kemei’s 87,182. Senator Aron Cheruiyot was unopposed and he was handed the UDA nomination certificate. In the August 9 election, Cheruiyot is expected to run against independent aspirant Aquneeas Chepchumba. Meanwhile, four out of six sitting MPs in the region lost in the UDA primaries. In Ainamoi constituency, former MP Benjamin Langat made a comeback after beating incumbent Silvanus Maritim. Langat garnered 17,000 votes against Maritim's 13,000. In Kipkelion East, MP Joseph Limo was beaten in the nominations by politician Joseph Cherorot. Cherorot garnered 11,219 votes against Limo's 8,981. In Soin/Sigowet, former MP Justice Kemei made a comeback after beating incumbent Kipsengeret Koros. Kemei garnered 11,848 against Koros 10,860 votes. In Bureti, incumbent MP Japheth Mutai Kipteregech was defeated by newcomer Kibet Komingoi. In Kipkelion West, incumbent Hilary Koske won the ticket after beating Jackson Rop. Hilary got 15,000 while Rops garnered 8,083. In Belgut, MP Nelson Koech Sonko won the ticket against newcomer Beatrice Sigei. Edited by A.N