As the polls draw nearer, concerns over the Government’s preparedness continue to arise. With the country’s history of election violence, women, girls and people with disabilities’ safety are of major concern. Akili Dada, a girls’ rights group, recently conducted a focus group discussion with young girls from Boxgirls Kenya on their experiences with peace during the electioneering period. During a Tweet Space discussion on Peace during the elections, Diana Njuguna from Akili Dada revealed the study’s findings. “The girls unanimously felt unsafe and at risk of violence during the coming elections. A majority said that their families were looking to relocate to areas they felt were neutral and little conflict would occur,” said Njuguna. She said that a number of them revealed that they were looking to form friendships with boys in their areas for security purposes. However, this could turn out to be the opposite of safe as Belta Mulinge, a Counseling Psychologist warns. “That place or person one may consider safe or secure could be the complete opposite. The protector, in this case, may take advantage and turn out to be the perpetrator instead,” she said. Winnie Aluoch from Boxgirls said that she considered her organisation a safe space. Unfortunately, she said, it is far away from her Korogocho home. “A safe space in the community during such times of election unrest would be better,” she said. Nairobi has never had a safe house for victims of violence despite years of calls from rights groups to set up one. Wanja Maina, a Gender and Development expert, said a government-run safe house should be in existence. “It is unfortunate that for years, a budget for such developments has not been set aside. The Government has left the setting up of safe houses in the hands of Non-governmental organisations and Community-Based Organisations,” she said. The problem with this, she explains, is that once the budget for that programme ends, the project stalls and victims lose the much-needed support they require. “Government-run safe houses would be better supported with security and constant funding provided in the budget,” Maina said. She revealed that a typical safe house is not a stereotypical building where victims flock in fear. “A typical safe house sometimes is just a good Samaritan's home where victims seek refuge. Often, the security is not guaranteed to make it easy for perpetrators to find the victims,” she said. Triza Gakwa, Strategic Growth Director at Freely in Hope said that the systems are already in place to ensure the safety of vulnerable groups. “Although we have gender desks as police stations and government hotlines to report violence such as 1195, they need to be very practical and not theoretical as they are now,” she said. She said that the Government needs to be very intentional in equipping first responders such as gender officers at these desks and hotlines. Last month, City Hall signed an MoU with NMS and the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF) to construct Sh88 million safe house The county government contributed Sh20 million and donated land for the construction of the house, while NMS  contributed Sh18 million and NGAAF Sh50 million towards the construction. So far, the construction is still not underway.