After a stellar showing at last weekend's ARC Equator Rally, Kenya's Karan Patel now has his eyes firmly set on the forthcoming Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally slated for May 6-8. The Ugandan round will count towards the third round of the 2022 FIA African Rally Championship (ARC) after February's ARC Rallye Bandama and Kenya's Equator Rally. Patel will be chasing a rare double on the continental scene and the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) which he currently leads after the first three rounds held in Il-Bisil, Mogotio, and Naivasha. Patel was sublimely fast on Naivasha terrain where he won four out of 8 stages in an event that also served as a dry run for June's WRC Safari Rally. "We are planning on doing all the rounds of the ARC. We will also take part in all the rallies in Kenya," said Karan after racking up maximum points on his first ARC outing this year on home soil. Patel missed out on the opening round in Ivory Coast where current leader Leroy Gomes scored maximum points. The Kenyan is now 24 points behind Zambian Gomes who admitted in an interview in Naivasha that Karan is in a class of his own. "If you look at the points that we need on the ARC standings, we have to do all the remaining events," Patel added. Last year, Patel competed in three ARC events in Kenya (retired), Rwanda, and Tanzania. He finished fourth in the 2021 Africa Championship with 48 points after twice settling for the first runner-up position on both the  ARC Oryx Energies Rally of Tanzania and ARC Rwanda Mountain Gorilla Rally. Patel will renew his rivalry with the Zambian speedster on the Pearl event alongside the big chunk of drivers who will be drawn from the host country. The Pearl is, by and large, the biggest crowd puller on the African series. It will be Patel’s debut appearance at the event and he is cautious about his expectations. “Let’s cross the bridge when we get there”, he told Hapa Sport. ARC STANDINGS AFTER ROUND 2 1. Leroy Gomes (Zambia) 54 pts 2. Karan Patel (Kenya) 30 pts 3. Jasmeet Chana (Kenya) 21 4. Jeremy Wahome (Kenya) 19 5. Gaincarlo Davite (Rwanda) 17