Another storm is yet again brewing in the Azimio One Kenya Alliance after a section of the outfit wrote to the Registrar of Parties seeking a  stop to the registration of the coalition immediately. The One Kenya Alliance wing, which brings together Wiper Party led by Kalonzo Musyoka, United Democratic Party led by Cyrus Jirongo and Senator Gideon Moi-led KANU, is seeking to halt the registration process until certain issues are ironed out. Among the three issues that the OKA team wants to be addressed is the issue of the running mate that reports say it feels there are plans to shortchange them. “Our objection is premised on fact that three (3) issues have not been agreed upon and are to be deliberated and agreed upon before the Agreement is fully registered,” OKA said. OKA team argues that the running mate slot is a preserve of Kalonzo and they are now fearing that they can lose it if the current arrangements go as it is. The OKA team also argues that a new coalition agreement has been deposited at the Registrar of Parties which they fear could jeopardize their interests in the outfit. OKA at the same time maintains that the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance is a product of three major parties that include ODM, Jubilee and Wiper party. They argue that the addition of the fourth pillar in the coalition means that the earlier agreement has been set aside, a move that risks their interests. This comes barely a week after eight fringe parties that are members of the Azimio threatened to walk out if their grievances are not listened to. Among the issues raised by the 8 parties is the inclusion of the fourth pillar in the alliance, something the OKA team has now protested. The team threatened to bolt out of the Azimio in the event their grievances are not granted. Their lamentations saw ODM leader  Raila Odinga convene an emergency meeting that resulted in their grievances apparently being solved. Sources say the 8 parties could have been added as the fourth pillar of the coalition and the initial coalition agreement was amended to accommodate the changes against the wishes of OKA. On Saturday, Kalonzo said that he will be satisfied with whichever position or role that he will be given in the Azimio. “I want my brother Raila to know, whatever formation they will come up with, whatever political formations this is the time for Raila Odinga to be the president of Kenya.