Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has called for more resources to be channeled towards development of intermediary cities. At least 55 per cent of Africa’s population is expected to live in urban areas by 2050. Nyong’o said health and climatic challenges continue to expose Africa’s frailties in managing urban populations and there is need to plan for future smart cities. He spoke at a virtual press conference over the weekend to give updates on the upcoming 9th Africities Summit to be held in Kisumu between May 17 and 21 this yer, expected to attract more than 10,000 visitors. Also addressing the press conference was Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Jean-Pierre Elong Mbassi, secretary general of the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa. The governor said with Africa’s rapid urbanisation, intermediary cities like Kisumu are assuming greater importance as they are expected to host the emerging urban population. He said there is need to craft appropriate policies that are geared towards future food, shelter, security, health and infrastructure of such cities to  provide solutions to sustainable environmental use. The three speakers said Kisumu is ready to host the summit, which is being held in an intermediary city for the first time. Kenya last hosted the Africities Summit in 2006 when it was held in Nairobi. The summit’s theme this year is, “The role of intermediary cities in Africa in the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the African Union Agenda 2063.” Wamalwa said the government has availed the necessary resources to prepare Kisumu to host the summit including constructing the ultra-modern Mamboleo Convention and Recreation Centre at a cost of Sh1.4 billion, which will be the venue. He said government has also upgraded roads within and around Kisumu and expanded other infrastructural facilities like the airport which can now handle a million visitors annually. Other facilities include port of Kisumu and the refurbishment of the old metre gauge rail network into the city. "Africities could draw lessons from Kenya’s successful implementation of devolution including how to devolve resource and decision making as the continent looks for new governance models that ensure equitable distribution of resources to all," Wamalwa said. The summit is jointly organised by the UCLG Africa, Kenya, county, Council of Governors, African Union, African Development Bank, UN Habitat, European Union, UN Economic Commission for Africa and the Cities Alliance. It will feature workshops to discuss topics like, how to light up, feed, and improve the quality of life in intermediary cities. How to develop economic activities and employment in intermediary cities and the contribution of these cities to African integration and unity. Among those expected to attend include regional heads of state and government, ministers in charge of local government, housing, public service and urban development. Local authorities, elected officials, officials of local and central administration, civil society, trade organisations. Economic operators in the public and private sector, researchers, academics and international cooperation agencies. Mbassi said the Africities forum was helping in achieving the dream of the African renaissance and said the continent’s future lies in developing intermediary cities. He called for more integration of Africans living in the diaspora to determine the continent’s future as they have valuable insights to share. (Edited by Tabnacha O)