Increased adoption of circular agriculture has led to production of more quality food and improved food security, a report has shown. Circular agriculture focuses on using minimal amounts of external inputs, closing nutrients loops, regenerating soils and minimising the impact on the environment. The report titled 'Kenya and the Netherlands working together towards circular agriculture in Kenya', by the Netherlands Embassy, was launched last Wednesday in Nairobi. It shows that Kenya is adopting new technologies that ensure use of minimal spaces to produce huge amounts of quality foods. This is especially crucial due to the rapidly growing population, which in turn drives up the demand for nutritious foods. Agricultural is the country’s second-largest industry after tourism. At least a quarter of Kenya’s annual GDP is generated from agriculture. It employs more than 40 per cent of Kenya's total working population. It is, therefore, safe to say that optimising agriculture would benefit the country in multiple ways, and in the process help Kenya achieve its ambitious climate goals, the report notes. “This is where the concept of circular agriculture comes in. In simple terms, it involves practices that are in harmony with nature and at the same time support its stakeholders,” said Karin Boomsma, Director of Sustainable Inclusive Business-Kenya. “Circular agriculture enables Kenya to tackle key environmental challenges while also sustaining its population and economy." Netherlands Ambassador Maarten Brouwer said in recent years, Kenya and his country have worked together to optimise agriculture by offering smart technology and organisational support. This has proven successful, he said. Brouwer said by adopting circular, regenerative and inclusive farming practices, Kenya has shown great potential to make its second-largest industry more sustainable overall. “For instance, circular agriculture is enabling Kenya to mitigate climate change, elevate its food quality and improve security,” he said. The report provides 11 farming trends and opportunities that have been identified as indicative of the transition towards circular agriculture. They include a selection of best practices across five areas hoped to inspire anyone working in agriculture. Ingrid Korving, the Dutch agricultural counsellor for Kenya and Tanzania, said though having vastly different climates, both Kenya and The Netherlands rely heavily on agriculture and are thus keen on exchanging experiences and best practices. “Kenya’s agricultural advancements have seen a great number of collaborations with the Netherlands. As driving forces behind circular agriculture, our countries together form a rich source of knowledge that benefits both parties,” she said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya