Professional Women in Nairobi have endorsed Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua as Raila Odinga's running mate. The women from different sectors said Azimio La Umoja coalition has a strong candidate in Karua. In a joint statement read by Policy and Research consultant Njeri Kiereini on Wednesday, the women said the Azimio presidential candidate should pick Karua. “We believe Karua is the best candidate because she has been a disruptor of an unfortunate legacy of impunity and corrupt leadership that created a trust deficit among the public,” she said. Kiereini said they are honoured to rally behind Karua to build trust networks within the professional community, to address the trust deficit she constantly talked about, should she take the seat. “She has also been a valiant and firm defender of the democratic process in Kenya, considering the fact that there has been a scarcity of women’s voices in decision-making spheres,” she said. Kiereini said Karua has been creating a firm foundation over the years, where women are seen as key contributors at all decision-making forums. “She has had to make considerable sacrifices for what she believes in. She has been a national symbol of truth, value-based leadership, principle and long-suffering. Thus demonstrating what women in Kenya represent,” she said. Pauline Warui a corporate professional said Karua is the best candidate because she embodies strong, courageous leadership and stands for what is right. “Kenyan professionals have been left out of matters pertaining to politics because we do not want to be seen as partisan. "But the reality of it is that this impacts us heavily because decisions end up being made for us by leaders whom we did not elect,” she said. Warui said Karua embodies a leadership that can place everybody at the decision-making table. Apostle Teresia Wairimu said their support for Karua is not because she is a woman but because she has stood the test of time. “As the iron lady that we know her to be, we know she has the ability to steer our government ahead,” she said. Wairimu said the business community needs someone who is sensitive to the needs of business owners especially in Small and Medium Enterprises and the Jua Kali sector. She said as a business community they have seen Karua support many SMEs. "She is a believer in SMEs." "As women in business, we believe in Karua and endorse her to be our next deputy president. We also pray that one day, she will be our president,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)