The United States (US) government has pledged to support Kenya as it strives to strengthen Global Health Security. This will include the gaps identified in the health care system during the response to the COVID 19 pandemic. This came up during Tuesday's meeting between the two nations. The meeting sought to renew the agreement concerning the Cooperation in Threat Reduction Biological Engagement Programs. Speaking during the ceremony, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said Kenya has prioritized health security in an effort to address emerging threats. “We have noted a critical need for the training of our officers in Biosafety and Biosecurity. We have also noted the need to raise awareness on handling and the measures needed towards the reduction of nuclear threats," Kagwe said. He added that the nuclear threat challenge was recently witnessed in an event in Mombasa where a ship carrying radioactive material was intercepted. The agreement will carry on for the next seven years. The US Embassy Charge De Affaires, Eric Kneedler and CS Kagwe signed the renewing agreement, following wide bilateral consultations. The agreement was initially signed in July 2015 during President Barrack Obama's visit to Kenya by the then Ministry of Health (MoH) head and the US Ambassador to Kenya. The agreement came into force in April 2017, after all the legal requirements were met, including Parliamentary Ratification. The MoH was selected as the lead implementing agency with the ministries of Interior and  Defence designated as co-chairs considering the security aspects of the agreement. The agreement has since facilitated benefits to several governmental ministries, departments and agencies. These include Kemri, The Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production Institute, Central Veterinary Laboratories, National Public Health Labs and County Health facilities. Upcoming beneficiaries include the Kenya Wildlife Research and Training Institute and the Primate Research Institute who are discussing the possibility of setting up a molecular laboratory.