University management is staring at radical reforms in case proposals by the National Assembly Education Committee are adopted. Members of Parliament have moved the Universities Amendment Bill to the committee stage. The new dispensation seeks to streamline management in public universities and their constituent colleges. In fresh amendments to the Universities bill, the Education committee chaired by Florence Mutua is seeking for the University council to advertise vacancies and conduct interviews. This, in case the position of principal or deputy principal falls vacant. After this, three candidates are to be shortlisted and names forwarded to the council. "The Council shall, within fourteen days of receipt of the names forwarded in consultation with the CS appoint the Principal or Deputy Principal," Mutua said. According to the committee, the selection panel should constitute the chairperson of the University Council; a representative of the Principal Secretary responsible for university education. Others are a representative of the Principal Secretary  responsible for finance and two representative, one man and one woman, nominated by the University Senate. On students elections, the committee proposes leaders to be selected based on academic merit. "A person shall be eligible to stand for election as a member of the student council if the person is in good academic standing," Mutua said. Presently, students qualify to vie on the basis of discipline and fees payment. Some universities already have the consideration of academic merit. The proposal seeks to amend the representation of private universities' vice-chancellors. "By deleting paragraph (h) and substituting with one person nominated by private universities in a forum of vice-chancellors of private universities," she added. The education committee further proposed amendments to the finding of government-sponsored students in private universities. "Inserting the words “to ensure equity in the funding of all government-sponsored students in public and private universities” immediately after the words “subject area"," Mutua said. The government sent 86,270 state-sponsored students to private universities in the last six years. The document presented by the Kenya Association of Private Universities shows they host 14.8 per cent of the total population of government-sponsored students. The Busia woman representative added new proposals to the running of the Universities Funding Board. Mutua proposed that the board CEO hold office for a five year term which can be renewed if eligible. The lawmakers have proposed four other members to be appointed to the board by the Cabinet secretary. The four are one vice-chancellor representing public universities nominated by a forum of vice-chancellors of public universities. The other will be one vice-Chancellor representing private universities nominated by a forum of vice-chancellors of private universities; "One representative of the Kenya Association of Technical Training Institutions, one person with ten years experience in the management of education, and the director, who shall be an ex-officio member," she said. According to the law, the main mandate of the UFB is to develop the detailed institutional funding criteria, as well as apportion and disburse all government funding. In this regard, the state seeks to do away with the management of university funds being under a board of trustees. The agency, formed to provide funds for financing universities, is also mandated to monitor the utilisation and impact of the funds by the recipient universities. The proposed law further gives the Education CS powers to revoke any appointment, transfer and deployment of chairperson or member of the council. Currently, top governing bodies appoint the officers in consultation with the CS, after a competitive process conducted by the Public Service Commission. Several proposals have been fronted in the national assembly concerning varsities management. Last year a proposal sponsored by national assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya sought to amend the university Act 2012. It sought to strip university councils of power to select VCs and their deputies. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)