The Ministry of Sports, Culture, and Heritage and the Kenya Golf Federation (KGF) have mourned the death of President Mwai Kibaki. In a statement issued on Monday, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said the golf fraternity in Kenya, Africa and beyond is saddened by the Kibaki's demise. The late president was the patron of the Kenya Golf Union and a member of Muthaiga Golf Club since May 1, 1988. The CS described Kibaki as an astute golfer and icon of the sport. “He played a major role in the development of golf in the country and through him, Kenya received many accolades in the sport," saids Amina. "His Excellency the late Mwai Kibaki was among five individuals who were members of the Kenya Golf Union Hall of Fame in 2016, the year of its inauguration.” The honour was bestowed upon individuals who had played a key role in popularising, growing and preserving golf in Kenya. “He deeply appreciated that Kenya had earned international recognition as a sporting nation due to the competitiveness, effort, and success of its sportsmen and women. He was also impressed by the high caliber of golfing championships held in the country that gained recognition globally,” she added. The CS added that President Kibaki was a big supporter of the Kenya Ladies Golf Union, having sponsored the Ladies Invitation at Muthaiga Golf Club over the years. "He also facilitated the Kenya Ladies Golf Union's participation in international tournaments which exposed our lady golfers to international standards,” she noted. Kibaki, she added, was encouraged by the Kenya Golf Union’s initiative through Junior Golf Foundation to introduce golf to school-going children. “He believed strongly that this would contribute to the growth of world-class golf champions. As our golf patron, President Kibaki exemplified the excellence of golf, discipline, determination, hard work, punctuality, and philanthropy. His legacy of integrity and ethical leadership has a mark that will hopefully live on,” she concluded.