Kip Keino Classic meet director Barnaba Korir says the decision by top international athletes to compete at the May 7 event will continue attracting other runners to the country. Korir said the presence of elite athletes is increasingly polishing Kenya's image as a major sports destination in the world. "When we have such top athletes competing in this event, it shows others from around the world that Kenya is a place they can come to train and compete in internationally-recognized events. It gives us as a federation the window to work with the government to ensure Kenya hosts more of these events," Korir said. He is also hopeful that the event will be an eye-opener for many Kenyan athletes, some of who have never had the opportunity to compete in international competitions. "The idea is to encourage our top athletes to compete in local events. When they do that, it also gives us an opportunity to our young athletes to participate in such international events, competing against their foreign counterparts," he said. Korir was speaking after 2013 World 200m champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce of Jamaica and American Sha'Carri Richardson were confirmed as the latest competitors at the Kip Keino Classic. The two are expected to go head-to-head in the women's 200m, which was clinched last year by Olympic silver medalist Christine Mboma of Namibia. Korir was elated by the latest entrants, expressing hope that more athletics giants will confirm their intent to run in Nairobi by the end of the week. "We are expecting more top athletes to confirm their participation by the end of this week, especially in the men's and women's 800m and 1500m...for the discretionary event. There are also a lot of expectations for the sprinters especially after the interest that we garnered last year," he said. Others who have thus far confirmed their date with the third edition of the World Athletics Continental Tour Gold event include Olympic 3000m steeplechase Peruth Chemutai of Uganda, three-time Olympic hammer throw champion Anita Wlodarczyk of Poland, and World 1500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot, among others. This year's event will be the first to allow spectators into Moi Stadium, Kasarani after the previous two were held behind closed doors due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And with capacity crowds expected, Korir said fans might have to part with a small fee to enter the stadium. "It will be a small entry fee to cater for the maintenance of the stadium. It will also be a way for them to contribute to sports development. However, this depends on the prerogative of the Head of State who may direct that the fans be allowed free entry. We are in discussions and will let you know as time goes," he said.