Azimio-One Kenya Alliance presidential hopeful Raila Odinga left the country on Friday evening for a one-week tour of the US. The ODM leader left on a day his Orange party was concluding its primaries against a tight timeline by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries deadline for submissions of aspirants list. The visit comes on the backdrop of intense presidential campaigns in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta who is retiring in August. The ODM leader is leaving the country at a time his Azimio top organ begins the search for a suitable candidate to be his running mate. Azimio Council on Thursday resolved to appoint an advisory panel to recommend candidates to the Azimio presidential candidate. This will be Raila’s last international travel before the August 9 general election. He will spend the one week in Washington, DC and San Francisco where he will meet distinguished entrepreneurs and technology giants. He is expected to also meet top US government officials, senior Congress members and selected key African leaders. “He will meet and address Kenyans in the American diaspora and speak to several think tanks,” spokesperson of Raila Odinga presidential Campaign Secretariat Makau Mutua said in a statement. Raila will also use the visit to outline his agenda and demonstrate the importance of cordial relationship between the two countries. “Mr Odinga will take the opportunity of the visit to outline his vision for Kenya, underline the importance of the strategic and historic US/Kenya relationship and the vital interests that the two countries share in the region," Makau said. Raila will also "promote business partnerships and investment in Kenya in IT and technology and fellowship with Kenyans abroad.” In the Raila’s entourage were Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), James Ongwae (Kisii), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Narc Kenya boss Martha Karua and former head of Public Service Sally Kosgey. Others were Homabay Senator Moses Kajwang’, Kathiani MP Robert Mbui, former Kenya Ambassador to the US Elkanah Odembo and Mutua.  (edited by Amol Awuor)