Baringo police are looking for a serial sex offender defiler who allegedly grabbed, choked and defiled a 14-year old girl. The man identified as JR, a school dropout, allegedly attacked the girl at Kitibei village in Saimo-Kipsaraman ward, Baringo North, on March 25. He has defiled two other girls since 2018, been arraigned in court several times but it is claimed the family protects him and buys his freedom. The earlier two cases have been withdrawn. The man is free. “I was going to fetch water in a nearby river around 8am when I met him on the way, a few metres from home. He grabbed me, choked me and raped me," the girl told police on Wednesday. Her father said the girl screamed and passed out. Neighbours who heard the screams rushed to the scene and took her to nearby Kipsaraman dispensary. She was transferred to Kabartonjo subcounty hospital. “I reported the matter immediately at Kipsaraman police station, but the suspect has since disappeared from home, so far no one knows his whereabouts,” he said. He said the man is known to have committed several sexual offences, terrorising young girls in the village. "I fail to understand who always sponsors him with transport to escape. The family needs to be interrogated," he said. The peasant farmer said he can’t afford the fees to take his daughter for further medical checkup and treatment and pursue legal justice. He called upon the government and humanitarian agencies to help him get justice for his daughter,whom he said is disciplined and hardworking in school. Doctors at Kabartonjo hospital said the girl had been strangled. They said she was not defiled and her private parts appeared normal, though the hymen was broken some time ago. Kabartonjo police commander Fred Odinga said they are searching for the man and will charge him with assault, causing bodily harm and attempted defilement. He said the police file can amended in accordance with the medical report. Villagers say they are living in fear as the man roams at night knocking doors, looking for girls and women to terrorise. (Edited by V. Graham)