A Kenyan lobby group has slammed world leaders over their ‘hypocritical’ approach to world peace. The Palestinian Liberation Advocacy on Friday said for there to be peace across the world, there should be equal treatment of issues affecting the world. “As a lobby group, we are not happy with the way there is double standards from the West when it comes to Ukraine and Palestine,” said Bradley Ouna, the convenor of the Palestinian Liberation Advocacy. “Why is it that the West, when it comes to Ukrainian issue, they are very pro-active but are silent on the Palestinian issue yet they have been suffering the same for the last 60 years.” Ouna said just like the Russians are aggressors in the Ukraine war, the Israeli are the same to Palestinians. He said the massive campaign against the Russians will not bring peace so long as they have turned a blind eye on other human beings suffering the same fate as the Ukrainians. The lobby group is planning a peace walk in Mombasa on Wednesday, May 4, to protest the ‘hypocrisy’ of the West. “This will be in support of the Palestinian course. The regime there is like the South African Apartheid. The Israeli aggressors there are just like the Russian aggressors in Ukraine,”  Ouna said. Ouna noted that they will mobilise university students across Mombasa to join the course on Wednesday. The demonstration was initially planned for Thursday but was pushed to Wednesday to allow for the mourning of retired President Mwai Kibai, who will be laid to rest in his Othaya home in Nyeri County on Saturday. The demonstration will start at Pembe za Ndovu along Moi Avenue, through Nkurumah road to Fort Jesus before moving into Old Town. The protestors will then make their way to Abdel Nasser road before joining Digo Road. They will then hold special prayers for the Palestinian people at Pembe Za Ndovu. According to Ouna, the Palestinian Liberation Advocacy advocates and fights for the rights of Palestinians for self-determination and statehood. “We support all the efforts to put pressure to the world and world leaders to refocus and double their effort in finding a solution to the Palestinian cause,” he said. The lobby group said Palestinians have been discriminated and racially segregated since the formation of the Jewish nation. “They have been living in what is akin to the largest open-air prison in the world.”