The national government has stopped disbursing Sh3.2 billion conditional grants to eight counties for financing operations of formerly provincial referral hospitals. Each county was getting Sh400 million for supporting medical services at the hospitals situated at former provincial headquarters, and which were being used as referral facilities before health sector was devolved. "The national government has announced stoppage of disbursement of conditional grants from the 2021-22 financial year," Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said. He said the decision was reached after all the counties established modern referral hospitals that they are managing. Oparanya made the remarks during an induction training for the newly appointed members of the Kakamega County General Teaching & Referral Hospital board. He was accompanied by the county Health executive Collins Matemba and chief officer Felistus Moraa. The governor said counties affected by the financial cut will have to factor in the money in their budgets to avoid crisis in the facilities that were critical to provision of specialised treatment. Oparanya said Kakamega County General Teaching & Referral Hospital has been affected by the national government’s decision to cut provision of financial grants, saying the move was a blow to the county. "This is a setback, but I assure patients seeking services at the facility that we have put measures in place to make sure operations of the facility do not come to a halt," he said. He said the hospital's new board should improve on revenue collection for the facility to be able to adequately finance its operations. Oparanya also outlined his expectations from the new board. The governor said he expects them to streamline the running of the hospital for effective service delivery. Oparanya said he has confidence in the board, adding that they have assumed office when he has started the process of turning the hospital into a parastatal and urged them to actualise the dream. He further told the board that top on their agenda should be appointment of a CEO for the hospital. "Scrap the title medical superintendent and appoint a competent person to the position to run the hospital," he said. "Then put in place proper financial systems that will enable you generate adequate funds to facilitate operations of the hospital." Matemba said he was happy the board is finally in place, adding that it will help in streamlining the running of the hospital and ensure adequate service delivery.  (edited by Amol Awuor)