Mang’u High School has for several years been trailing behind other academic giants in the KCSE exam. But this year, it has emerged among the top performing schools in the country, producing the best student in the 2021 KCSE exam-Jariel Ndeda Obura. The school has produced five of the top 15 best students in the country. Principal John Kuria told journalists at the school that out of the 500 candidates who sat the 2021 KCSE exam, 110 got A plain. Some 156 students scored A-, 94 scored B+, 77 had B plain, 36 scored B-, 19 got C+, seven had C plain and two C-. “We have recorded an improved performance this year with a tentative mean grade of 10.28 points, which is a B+. Our candidates have made the entire Mang’u fraternity proud,” Kuria said. He attributed the success to hard work by both the teaching staff and the candidates, saying they worked extra hard to complete the syllabus on time and have ample time to prepare for the exam. “Our teachers have been waking up at 4am to prepare our candidates. They have also done a tremendous job in assisting low-performing students and that’s why we have few students who haven’t qualified for university slots,” he said. “Our candidates had no weekends. They were busy studying with the help of our teachers. Also, our parents have been really supportive and they have been regularly mentoring our students.” The principal said students have high levels of discipline and engage in academic contests to improve their performance. “Our students including Jariel have been highly disciplined and hard-working. Again, there has been stiff competition, especially among our top 20 students. We expected sterling performance from our students,” Kuria said. Pastor John Mbugua, who has been Obura’s class teacher since Form 1, the top student's performance has been outstanding. “Obura has been a reserved, hard-working and well-disciplined student. His performance throughout has been exemplary. I even prophesied to our candidates that we will pull a Kenya one. They have remained in that high spirit and that’s why we are here celebrating their great performance,” the teacher said. Benedict Waweru, among the top students in the school, scored A plain of 82 points. He said he did not expect such an outcome as he sat the exam while grieving his father’s demise. “I lost my father late last year and the loss has been too much to bear even during the exam. I thank God that I managed to excel despite my predicament,” he said. Waweru dreams of becoming an orthopaedic surgeon and hopes to join Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT). Edited by A.N