The world swimming body, FINA will appoint a committee to oversee swimming activities in the country if the Interim Management Committee does not act with speed to resolve the current impasse. According to a letter written by African Swimming Confederation President Sam Ramsay and addressed to Sports Dispute Tribunal (SDT) chair, John Ohaga, the federation is yet to receive an update from Kenya Swimming Federation in the recent past. “ We have not had any update from you (Ohaga) on the Kenya Swimming Federation (KSF) situation for some time now. The non-resolution on the Kenyan Swimming matters is of serious concern to FINA," the letter read in part. FINA are now considering taking direct action to resolve all matters, according to Ramsamy. "Further, we have frequently received requests from Conrad Thorpe for swimmers to compete in events outside of Kenya. This can't continue much longer without matters returning to normal. Besides, we believe that some communication is taking place within the KSF administration,” said Ramsamy. He added that certain individuals within the IMC are being proposed for FINA committees contrary to the world and continental statutes. In the recent swimming events, Kenya has had to request CANA for permission to have their swimmers participate in regional championships. When contacted, Ohaga said they will furnish CANA with a status update on the sport in the country. He said the reconstituted IMC is committed to ensuring that swimming continues despite thecurrent challenges faced and was assembling a team for CANA Zone Four Championships in Zambia next week and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July,” said Ohaga. On election matters, Ohaga said until the constitutional petition is heard and determined by the court, their hands are tied. “It's an ongoing court process but I hope by the mid this year, we can have a conclusion to the case and have the elections held before the end of the year. IMC have been running affairs of swimming for the last five years contrary to the Sports Act which states that they should only be at the helm for eight months.