UDA governor nominees in the North Rift must confirm the names of their running mates by Thursday. The IEBC has given all nominees until Thursday this week to forward the names of the running mates to the commission. Intense lobbying is going on especially for the new governor nominees in Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet. Politician Jonathan Bii popularly known as koti moja won the UDA governor ticket in Uasin Gishu. Reports indicate he may pick Dr Violet Chesang Lamaon from Moiben subcounty as his running mate. However three other individuals interested are lobbying hard to deputise Bii. "Dr Chesang has been a critical player during campaigns in Bii’s camp and she leads the pack of those likely to take the running mate slot in Uasin Gishu,” youth leader Joseph Kemei, a Bii supporter, said. Bii will face prominent businessman and politician Bundotich Kiprotich Buzeki in the race to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago who is completing his term. Buzeki will be vying as an independent candidate in the August 9 polls. “I will be on the ground starting  next week so that we roll out our campaign programmes early," Buzeki said. He is also hurrying to find a running mate and allies saying he will pick either from Turbo or Kapseret subcounties. Bii is from Soy subcounty while Buzeki is from Ainabkoi subcounty. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich won the UDA ticket to succeed his boss Alex Tolgos and the fight is on for those angling to be his running mate. Close allies of Rotich said he is likely to pick his running mate from the Marakwet community because he is from the Keiyo community. Also being mentioned as  a possible running mate is former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui. “Kiptanui is from Keiyo just like Rotich and they cannot pair up leaving out the Marakwet community," a Rotich ally said. In Nandi, Governor Stephen Sang is poised to win a second term after winning the UDA primary. He is likely to retain his deputy Dr Yulita Mitei with whom he has a good working relationship. In West Pokot, former Governor Simon Kachapin was picked as the UDA nominee and he needs a running mate to face with Governor John Longyangapuo who defeated him. (Edited by V. Graham)