Members of the Kenyan team to the 24th edition of the Deaflympic Games will undergo mental health training to understand how to cope with pressure on the international stage. Sports Cabinet Secretary,  Amina Mohamed, said the sessions have been prompted by the realization that mental wellness plays a critical role in a sportsperson's life. "In recognition of how widespread mental illness is within the sports fraternity, we have organised a session on mental health awareness, in partnership with Chiromo Hospital Group for the athletes and team officials this Friday," Amina said. The CS added: "We have further agreed to have such sessions held for all future camps to ensure our sportsmen and women are in the right frame of mind before and after competitions." Mental health has been a major problem for many Kenyan sportspersons who confess to struggling with long spells on the sidelines, social media abuse, and performing before capacity crowds. Another new approach to preparing Kenyan teams for international assignments is training on handling media interviews. "Besides training for the competitions, the team will be taken through media relation sessions on Thursday to prepare them for media interviews even as we seek to hone their in-field and off-field skills," Amina said. She was speaking on Wednesday after the Brazil-bound team arrived for a residential training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani before their departure for the May 1-15 quadrennial games. The team, which includes, basketballers, footballers, golfers, handballers, and athletics, will be staying at Stadion Hotel for the next 23 days as they sharpen themselves for the task ahead. "Athletes and the technical officials checked in to the Stadion Hotel on Wednesday. After the training camp for 23 days, a team of 136 athletes will be selected to fly the Kenyan flag at the competitions," the CS said. Kenya will be making their seventh appearance at the summer games, after its debut in 1997 in Copenhagen, Denmark. At the last edition in Samsun, Turkey in 2017, Kenya was the top-ranked African country — ninth worldwide — courtesy of a medal haul of four gold, four silver and six bronze.