Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi has revealed that the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance will name its Nairobi governor seat flagbearer on Thursday. The MP, who is also eyeing the governor seat, confirmed that negotiations are ongoing on who will be the suitable candidate. "The coalition I belong to is in consultation and will be issuing a statement on Nairobi this Thursday. The decision of the coalition will be an addition or subtraction to my ambitions,” Wanyonyi said. Speaking during a press briefing on Tuesday, the legislator assured his supporters that he is still in the race and is hopeful he will get the ticket. "Leadership is a calling and from the beginning, I always say 'si mimi ni sisi'. I am still on the race." The Star has established that the Westlands MP had been summoned to State House on Tuesday morning on talks regarding the governor seat race. “I can't confirm in detail about the meeting but I can assure you it's about Nairobi politics and the gubernatorial race,” a source, who sought anonymity, confided to the Star. Last week, Wanyonyi refuted claims that he had been convinced to step down from the race after a meeting with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. He also rubbished claims that he would be elbowed out of any Azimio political permutation because Raila can not be endorsed for the presidency and at the same time have a candidate for the Nairobi governor seat. Last month, ODM Party assured aspirants in Nairobi that no nomination tickets have been issued to any city aspirant. ODM Secretary-general Edwin Sifuna revealed that the plan was to have the party’s Nairobi nomination tickets issued at once to all aspirants. Sifuna who has been supporting Wanyonyi’s bid for Nairobi governor assured him of the party ticket. For the past 15 years, Wanyonyi has served Nairobi, first as a nominated councillor between 2007 and 2013 and then as MP for Westlands Constituency since 2013 to date. The legislator had officially launched his bid for the governor's seat last year. Wanyonyi's fate now lies in the coalition's decision. On the Kenya Kwanza Alliance side,  Deputy President William Ruto unveiled Senator Johnson Sakaja as their candidate for the Nairobi governor seat. This was after Bishop Margaret Wanjiru gave up her gubernatorial ambitions in favour of Sakaja and will now run for the Nairobi senate seat. Other Azimio members eyeing the governor ticket include Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu, Businesswoman Agnes Kagure and  Former Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) Richard Ngatia.