Having interacted with so many drivers and observed driving behaviours for a while now, rumble strips must be a big nightmare for many motorists. Recently, around where I stay, three rumble strips were constructed on a 100m stretch of road. This followed a series of accidents in the area during which many pedestrians were injured, whereas one lost his life at the hands of a speeding vehicle. However, the introduction of rumble strips was not well received by many drivers, who opted for cringe ways to avoid this road safety feature. Some went to the extent of veering off into the walkways when approaching these rumble strips. Rumble strips are grooves or indents placed on roads, footpaths and between lanes. They produce a vibrating sound when run over. From a driver's perspective, rumble strips seem a bother and a waste of time, especially when there are just too many of them on a short stretch of the road, as in the case in our area. Furthermore, some cars do not have the proper shock absorbers to navigate through rumble strips safely without causing damage to the vehicle. Hence, such drivers would rather overlap on the footpath before navigating back to the road. I have also observed that rumble strips can also cause unnecessary traffic snarl-ups. This is especially so during peak hours, such as early morning or late evening. Smaller automobiles often have it rough negotiating through rumble strips due to their low gravity, and this leads to congestion on the roads while waiting for such car owners to steer successfully. Rumble strips can also be inconveniencing to drivers of two-wheeled automobiles, such as tuktuks and motorbikes. Most would prefer encroaching on footpaths rather than waste a lot of time on these strips. Consequently, this beats the purpose of constructing rumble strips as overlapping motorcyclists risk causing road accidents by driving on areas designated for pedestrians. If you have ever been in an unroadworthy vehicle whose springs or shock absorbers have seen better days, then rumble strips can make for an uncomfortable ride. Being thrown up and about while suffering a headache or stomach discomfort will have you cursing whoever came up with the idea of rumble strips. However, for all its discomfort and side effects, rumble strips are credited as an effective means of preventing road carnages occasioned by speeding. As a driver, the thrill of driving on a smooth tarmac can be tempting enough to press your feet on the pedal a little bit harder. Rumble strips are a reminder that there are others using the same road and hence you need to be mindful of them. They are reminder to inattentive drivers of a bump ahead or a climbing lane so as to watch out for their speed. In certain instances, rumble strips are placed within lanes to prevent cars from veering into oncoming lanes.