ODM supporters in Vihiga have protested the party decision to hand a direct ticket to woman representative aspirant Winnie Majani, saying there was no consensus. Majani's challenger, Nancy Abisai, said the party must conduct nominations to determine who its flag bearer is. On Tuesday, Abisai's supporters, led by Alice Kirambi, took to the streets to protest the award of the direct ticket to Majani, demanding that nominations be conducted. Abisai is a former East Africa Legislative Assembly lawmaker. Her supporters claim ODM should have handed the ticket to Abisai who, they believe, is stronger politically than Majani. “What we want to know is which methods were used to pick Majani as the ODM aspirant and yet there were no nominations,” Kirambi said. They said Abisai has been an ardent supporter of ODM and also an MP, something that gives her an upper hand in terms of popularity than Majani. However, Vihiga ODM branch  chairman Zebedy Osabwa said there was a consensus approach to get a better aspirant. Osabwa said ODM election officials conducted free and fair opinion polls that saw Majani emerge as the stronger aspirant. “We have the party structures from the grassroots to the national level, so when the authority decides how do I challenge it,” he said. “Abisai and Majani are both my people. I will work with them to ensure the party is strong and formidable to deliver for ODM,” Osabwa said. Abisai, while addressing her supporters at Chavakali market, asked them to be patient as she pursued the issue with the ODM national office. Meanwhile, in senatorial race, Godfrey Osotsi  will square it out with James Swadi of UDA, Babira Ndeda of PPK, Enos Butiko of ANC, Joseph Simekha of FPK and Sisco Mbindi (independent), among others. Governor Wilber Ottichilo will face off with Senator George Khaniri of  UDP, Francis Ominde of FPK, Moses Akaranga (PPK), Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi of ANC and Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi of Equitable Party. In the women representative race, Majani will face the incumbent Women Representative Beatrice Adagala of ANC, Kevina Oriedo, Roda Mbandu (Ford-Kenya), Ruth Bukachi (independent), Afandi Lugalo and Violet Bagada (UDP), among others.  (edited by Amol Awuor)