A quick glance at the history of economics shows that the cost of living does not go down. Prices of goods and services continue rising even in prosperous times. Thus, there are two ways of coping with the circumstances. You can take steps to increase your income or cut your living expenses. One way of achieving the latter is by growing some of your food instead of buying it. Of course, kitchen gardening is only possible if you have a bit of space adjacent to your home. Most people in rural areas have space to do kitchen gardening as do a large chunk of urban residents. Those already engaging in kitchen gardening are growing vegetables such as kales, spinach, tomatoes, onions and various types of African indigenous leafy vegetables. With bigger space and a favourable climate, it is possible to grow fruit trees, such as bananas and pawpaws, right in your backyard. What do you need to start a kitchen garden? It all depends on your budget. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, there are several types of micro-gardens. Simple ones need just a few plastic containers, old tyres, a bit of manure and water. A basic setup can supply a household of six with vegetables for a month. Sophisticated micro-gardens cost over Sh50,000 to prepare but can supply a household of six with vegetables for a year. “I use waste water from my kitchen to water the vegetables," says Andrew Mwaseghe, who is experimenting with growing spinach and kales at his home in Taita Taveta county. Living in a semi-arid landscape, where it does not rain for several months, he has to maximise on the water available in his homestead. Instead of letting waste water from the kitchen sink drain away, he collects it for his plants. Mwaseghe is growing vegetables in old gunny bags and plastic containers, but he faces challenges with pests. Meanwhile, he has extended the use of waste water to growing tree seedlings in his compound. With the ongoing drought in Kenya, the prices of food items are likely to continue rising in the foreseeable future. A kitchen garden is thus a great way to save the money you would have spent buying food. As you gain experience growing vegetables, you may expand into a bigger area and grow a surplus for sale. Kitchen gardening has its share of challenges. Mwaseghe's kitchen garden was affected by pests. Elsewhere, lack of water may stunt the crops. Keeping away neighbours' livestock can be a headache that may necessitate fencing the garden. Not all seeds are suitable for every climate and type of soil. It might take several attempts before you find the appropriate variety for your needs. Farming at any scale is a learning experience. The key to success is to consult experienced persons in your locality to improve your chances of getting a good harvest. And attend agricultural exhibitions to pick up best practices from farming experts.