The Director of Public Prosecutions has been handed a new lifeline in his fight with Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua over the hearing dates of a graft case. In the case, Gachagua is accused of fraudulently obtaining Sh7.5 billion. Gachagua is seeking reelection in August but the DPP wanted the case to be heard in the midst of election campaigns, a move that the MP vehemently opposed. The quiet fight was exposed in February when the DPP asked then trial magistrate Roda Makungu to commence hearings in June. The court had initially scheduled hearings to start on September 5, almost a month after the August 9 General Election. The magistrate declined the request. Later, she quit the case and referred it back to the chief magistrate for reallocation. Makungu said she had been promoted to become the registrar for the Lands and Environment Court, an administrative role that will limit her time as a magistrate. As such, she told parties in the case that she will be referring the case back to the chief magistrate for reallocation to another court. "In the circumstances, that is the best course of action given we have many other magistrate who can handle the matter," Makungu said. That reallocation was done on Tuesday, when senior principal magistrate Felix Kombo directed the matter to be heard by principal magistrate Victor Wakhumile. Kombo directed that the case be mentioned on May 17, setting the stage for a new battle to fix hearing dates between the prosecution and the defence. "Whether you will agree to proceed with the earlier hearing dates is a matter to be defined by the trial court," Kombo said. Gachagua is a key cog in the Kenya Kwanza campaign team led by Deputy President William Ruto. He has been rumoured to be among those being considered to become Ruto's running mate in the DP's maiden presidential bid. If the hearing is scheduled for a date before August 9 when the elections will be held, then Gachagua's time on the campaign trail will be severely limited as he is required to be physically present in court during hearings. Hearings sometimes start from 9am and end at 4pm.  It will make it difficult for the MP to campaign for reelection in his constituency. Gachagua is facing six counts of conspiracy to commit economic crimes. He was charged alongside William Mwangi, Anne Nduta, Julianne Jahenda, Samuel Murimi, Grace Wambui, Lawrence Kimaru, Irene Wambui and David Nguru. The state has lined up 45 witnesses to testify against the accused persons. Documentary evidence in the case runs to over 900 pages. State prosecutor Vera Hamisi had in December told the court the prosecution was ready for the hearing and that it had supplied all the evidence to the defence team. “We have 45 witnesses ready for the hearing and we intend to take at least two hours with each. That is why we are asking for a block of days to expedite the hearing of this case,” Hamisi said. In count one, Gachagua is charged with conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption. It is alleged he defrauded the county government of Nyeri of Sh27.4 million between May 2015 and December 2016. In the second count, the MP is charged with fraudulently acquiring Sh6 million from Nyeri Provincial General Hospital on December 29, 2014 for the supply of dialysis machines. He also faced two other counts of money laundering, in which the prosecution alleged the lawmaker pocketed Sh112 million from Kwale and Bungoma counties and engaged in transactions to conceal the money trail while aware they were proceeds of crime. But it is in count five where Gachagua faces the biggest accusation of fraudulent acquisition of Sh7.3 billion through his personal accounts at Rafiki Micro-Finance Bank. The prosecution alleges that between 2013 and 2020, Gachagua fraudulently received Sh7,330,011,265 through three bank accounts. The accounts were registered under the name of Rigathi Gachagua at Rafiki Micro-Finance Bank. (Edited by Tabnacha O)