Buuri MP aspirant Steve Ringera hopes to clinch the seat on his fourth attempt in August. Ringera, an independent candidate, said if elected he will transform the semi-arid constituency into an agricultural zone like Israel. The aspirant told the Star on Wednesday he will prioritise farming and complete projects initiated by his predecessor. “I will drill boreholes and tap water from Mount Kenya for domestic use and irrigation within my first term. I will rally the CDF and other donors who have interest in such initiatives,” he said. Ringera said he will enlist experts to show residents how to utilise water to farm horticultural crops for the global market. He said Buuri constituency is known for production of irish potatoes that are sold in international markets but farmers have little to show. “Anything that touches the world market is politicised. It is not true what KFC was saying that they cannot find quality potatoes to produce their fries. "Our potatoes are being sold in international markets such as Japan. Maybe KFC have their own potatoes in other countries,” Ringera said. He said potatoes from Meru are being sold to international markets by businesspersons from other countries. “One potato is sold at the value of a full sack of 1,800 potatoes. If we do value addition a farmer who exports directly to Japan can get a lot of money,” Ringera said. He said establishment of processing industries for value addition will not only help farmers but also create jobs. Ringera said he will look for international markets because he has a well-established international network. The aspirant said to achieve this, he will call all professionals from Buuri to donate towards his projects. “We have engineers, doctors and lawyers from Buuri and they will be willing to assist,” he said. Riingera said he will also borrow money from international lending entities like World Bank, IMF and IDB. “People do not known that World Bank can lend individuals leave alone a constituency like ours. I will negotiate all that and there will be more money than we need. Nobody will need a bursary after my first term,” he said. The aspirant said he will also make roads so that farmers can take their produce to market and ensure all residents are connected to power. He said if elected he will consider moving two bills in parliament. “The first bill is about corruption where those found culpable of corruption should return all monies and be jailed according to the law. "The second is about security, county commissioners should be sacked if found with negligence leading to death of people,” Ringera said. He also said barons are holding fuel so that they can milk Kenyans while leaders are watching because some of them are benefitting. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)