Maendeleo Chapa Chap party leader and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua is on Sunday set to meet the National Governing Council of his party. His meeting comes three days after he led 8 Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance fringe parties in airing out their discontent on how they are being treated in the ODM leader Raila Odinga-led coalition. The Sunday meeting, according to the MCC party leader, is to discuss available options for the political outfit ahead of the August 9, polls. In a statement on Saturday evening, Mutua said they will communicate their resolutions immediately after the meeting. "Tomorrow morning (Sunday), I will chair a special Maendeleo Chap Chap Party Governing Council meeting to discuss the options available to the party as we approach the 2022 general elections. We will communicate our position immediately after the meeting," Mutua said. Could the Governor be contemplating quitting Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance? In a meeting with aspirants on Thursday, Mutua hinted that his time in the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance could soon be over. The Governor said he has lost faith in the outfit after considering how things are being run. "To tell you the truth from where I stand as your party leader, I have lost faith in whatever document is coming out of here. I cannot trust. I do not know what they have or will deposit in the document," he told aspirants in a meeting held at KICC. However, Raila summoned a meeting with 8 fringe parties that raised concerns during which their issues were addressed. Governor Mutua was present at the meeting. However, Mutua appeared not to have been satisfied with the outcome of the meeting since he is yet to communicate anything about it or even assure his supporters of their future in Azimio. Reliable sources told this writer that the Machakos governor met the DP at his Karen residence on Saturday evening. It is not clear what they discussed but Mutua on Thursday told Citizen TV that he has been receiving phone calls from deputy president William Ruto and his allies in the past few days. He did not rule out the possibility of working with him. Mutua instead said he is keeping his options open, among them; working with the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. The entry of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka appears to have jostled the Governor. The two have been having supremacy battles in a bid to have control of the Ukambani region, a move that could have influenced his seemingly looming change of heart in Azimio.