The national deaf women’s football team has intensified training at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi ahead of the 24th Deaflympic Games to be held in Caxias Do Sul, Brazil between May 1 and 15. The team has been training at Kasarani Annex for the last one week under coach Ben Bella. “Our main projection was to train between four to six weeks since this is a relatively new team. However, this was impossible. Regardless, I’m sure that the team will be in good shape before we travel to Brazil,” said Bella. Kenya will face Japan, the United States, Poland and hosts Brazil. Bella admitted it will be a Herculean task to negotiate the group, where experienced teams await, but insisted his team is up to the task. “I have watched Brazil and since they have futsal, they have an edge over us while Japan, Poland and the US have played in various international tournaments too,” he said. He said the current team in camp will be reduced to 19 players. “Some of our key players including striker Ann Lukol cannot make it because of documentation while other players aged under 17 cannot travel because of government regulations,” said Bella. Team captain Emily Adhiambo said the team is raring to go. “There is a lot of excitement in the camp and we are looking forward to the event,” she said. She, however, concurred with her coach that they had limited time to train. “We have been training for a week now. We expected to hit camp for two or three months but all in all, we appreciate the support we have received from the government and the technical bench.” The Nakuru Flamingos midfielder admitted that they face a tough task in Brazil but asked Kenyans to expect a podium finish. “We are motivated and we want to finish within the medal bracket. We have watched our opponents and I’m sure we can go toe-to-toe,” she added. Goalkeeper Aisha Mohamud, who plays for Kids Kiserian FC, said competition for slots in the Brazil-bound team is very high. “Right now, we are five goalkeepers in camp and only three will travel. We have to work very hard in training to make the cut. I don’t want to be among those who will be dropped,” said Mohamud. She further noted they are out to make Kenya proud. “We face a lot of challenges including stigimatisation. We hope that after we come back from the Deaflympics, people will look at us differently,” she added.