The bold step taken by the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee to facilitate constitutional reforms is not only timely but also commendable. The Caretaker Committee has released a document entitled 'Key Changes To The Constitution And Rules Of FKF (2020)' meant to streamline the administration of football in the country. The development follows a comprehensive nationwide consultative exercise where the committee held fruitful discussions with key stakeholders in the industry. The Committee kicked off its first series of meetings last Thursday with representatives of Kenyan Premier League clubs before some more brainstorming sessions with National Super League officials on Friday and Division One clubs on Saturday. Committee chairman Retired Justice Aaron Ringera has reiterated their desire to have a document that sits well with the Kenyan Constitution (2010) and the Sports Act (2013). “We are engaging all stakeholders with a view of having an FKF Constitution which is compliant with the Constitution of Kenya and the Sports Act, 2013 and which encapsulates the values and principles of good governance, accountability and transparency and honours gender equity and equality,” Ringera said. “The caretaker committee is sharing its thinking (in the form of a raw draft) with the stakeholders and getting their input,” he added. Head of secretariat Linda Ogutu says the ultimate goal is to present a working document to Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed once they are through with the reforms. “We are inviting stakeholders to give views on proposed amendments and include their proposals to the document as part of public participation. We need a document that conforms to the Constitution of Kenya, Fifa Statutes and the Sports Act,” Ogutu said. “The Caretaker Committee has a duty to ensure the FKF Constitution complies with the Sports Act. The existing document is flawed." Ogutu said they have facilitated the process to ensure members own the process by carrying out the amendments. “They can suggest their own rules based on experience and administrative issues they've faced in the past,” she said. The Caretaker Committee has also put in place other modes of stakeholders' engagement to cast its net wide, including establishing an official portal where stakeholders can propose amendments. Among the Articles targeted for reforms is the distribution of power in accordance with the Constitution so that the country can have all the 47 counties involved in football administration under a national umbrella. The term ‘county’ has been amended to mean the 47 branches of FKF in charge of the administration, management and running of football at the County level. The highlight of the reforms is the proposal to amend Article 10 to include Kenya Primary Schools Sports Association, Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Associations and Kenya Colleges & Universities Sports Association as members of FKF. The amendment to Clause 14 (1) (g) proposes that the members of FKF have the obligation to adopt a clause specifying that any dispute requiring arbitration involving itself or one of its members relating to statutes, decisions and directives of Fifa, CAF, Cecafa or FKF can only be referred to the Sports Tribunal or CAS after exhausting all internal dispute or appellate mechanisms.