Kenyan Premier League debutants FC Talanta are determined to put smiles on the faces of their adoring fans at the end of the season by securing an impressive finish in the standings, head coach Ken Kenyatta has said. Kenyatta spoke after his charges fought gallantly to condemn Wazito to a 2-0 defeat at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Monday. Goals in the 66th and 87th minutes fired the side to ninth on the log with 39 points and Kenyatta believes they stand a good chance to wrap up the season in the top 10. Kenyatta extolled his charges for exhibiting great character in Monday's action-packed encounter. “The boys did well. They were faithful to the script and that's what made us collect maximum points,” Kenyatta said. “Hopefully, we will take this excellent form into our next fixture and remain in contention for a decent finish this season." The seasoned gaffer, however, says it's not been all rosy. “It's not been a very good season for us given the numerous challenges we've faced including injuries to our players,” Kenyatta said. “The back-to-back fixtures are also making our lives difficult. The tradition is to play against a team in the first leg of the season and meet them in the second." “However, currently we meet a team today and play against them a few days later in the reverse fixtures and this is quite tricky.” The tactician, who guided the Communications Authority of Kenya - sponsored side to their maiden top-flight promotion after clinching the National Super League, nonetheless, took a swipe at officiating standards. “So many people have been complaining about refereeing standards in the country. We want to tell referees we respect them and we are asking them to up their game because their performance on the pitch has a bearing on their name,” he observed. As Kenyatta celebrated a well-deserved victory, his opposite number Fred Ambani rued another missed opportunity to salvage themselves from the jaws of relegation. “Our main problem is failing to nail our chances. We create many goal-scoring opportunities but we are not clinical enough to make them count,” Ambani said. “It's also important that we pay close attention to how we defend because at times we end up conceding easy goals.”