Bunyore Starlets will be without dependable defender Floice Ambuso when they take on Trans-Nzoia Falcons in the Kenya Women’s Premier League match at the ASK showground, Kitale on Saturday. The newbies are ninth on the log with 15 points, five above the relegation zone with seven matches to go. Falcons, on the other hand, are fifth with 25 points. Bunyore coach Daniel Arunga said it’s a do-or-die match, challenging his charges to overturn the 2-1 loss in the first leg. “Ambuso is unavailable because of a persistent knee injury which aggravated this week. However, she might be available next weekend. It’s a must-win match for us considering we are not yet safe from the axe. The girls will have to be at their best to manage at least a point,” Arunga said. “We lost 2-1 in the reverse fixture under controversial circumstances. Falcons were awarded a dubious penalty. We hope for fair officiating this time around.” Leaders Vihiga Queens host relegation-threatened Kayole Starlets at Mumias Sports Complex, Sunday. Vihiga are 11 points clear at the top and it will require monumental collapse from Boniface Nyamunyamu’s side to miss out on the title. Kayole drew with Kangemi Ladies last weekend and coach Joshua Sakwa hinted that against Vihiga, the aim will be to avoid a heavy defeat. “It will be tough and we can’t afford to lose by a big margin.” Elsewhere, minnows Kangemi have dared Gaspo Women to underrate them at their own peril. The tail-enders will settle scores with the Gatundu-based side at Ligi Ndogo grounds and coach Joseph Odhiambo remains optimistic that Kangemi stand a chance of surviving, mathematically. “We have nothing to lose but they (Gaspo) can’t afford to be complacent against us. We are going to give them a run for their money. They could be in for a rude shock,” stated Odhiambo. Rejuvenated Zetech Sparks have a date with defending champions Thika Queens at the Gems Cambridge. Sparks are riding high on confidence after extinguishing Gaspo 2-1 in their last match. Second-placed Ulinzi Starlets play Nakuru Queens at Ruaraka as Kisumu All Starlets welcome Wadadia at Moi Stadium, Kisumu.