The lack of electricity in Nyango village, Kwale county, has been blamed for slowed development and inaccessibility to crucial services. Residents said the neighbouring villages of Vigurungani and Mbita have electricity. Resident Rehema Jeremiah said despite the area having a dispensary, pregnant women have to carry torches so they can deliver in the facility at night. "Pregnant women suffer a lot in times of emergencies," she said. Some residents depend on solar to light their homes. For those who cannot afford to instal solar panels, they use candles and lanterns. Rehema said residents also have to walk long distances to access salons and barber shops. "We hire motorbikes that don't take less than Sh1,000 to go to salons," she said. Women and men who cannot afford to go to the other villages for such services, have to be content with their natural hair. Barber Lenana Memoriki said he is unable to improve services because of electricity. Memoriki said he relies on solar and oftentimes the work becomes hard when the sun is not hot enough. He said people work for short hours due to fear of insecurity as there are no streetlights. Memoriki said residents languish in poverty because they cannot improve the businesses that require electricity to thrive. Edwin Muteri Indathu said it is impossible to operate past 7pm. He said most residents do not own TV sets and radios for lacking electricity. Nzadzi Rai said the remote village has been completely forgotten by the national government. She said when children and the elderly travel outside the village they feel like they belong to another world. Rai said many get shocked when they see streetlights on the highways because they have never seen electricity. Agnes Limoshi said she has never seen an electricity pole or wires. Limoshi said she only hears people talking about chilled drinks and she would want to have a taste of cold drinks. Mechanic Nduria Rama, who operates a small motorcycle garage, said his business cannot grow without electricity. He said they have to take motorcycles to Mackinnon town for welding work. "It is about 40 kilometres to the nearest village," he said. Residents also lamented the area is affected by water shortage. Rehema said they can go for months without water. They normally depend on rivers and boreholes which have run dry because of drought. She said the county sends water bowsers but it is never enough. They want the government to address the electricty and water problems.