Over 1.2 million candidates who received their 2021 KCPE exam results will know the secondary school they have been placed in, next week. Education CS George Magoha said affirmative action will be used to place the learners. Magoha said the placement will be fair and consider students from certain areas. “Results will either be out on Monday or Tuesday. I will ensure nobody corrupts the placement,” he said. Magoha said students from Samburu, Kibera and Mlango Kubwa slums might be enrolled in schools with better conditions. “I want a Samburu girl who wrote her exams in Mararal to join Kenya High, not in Nairobi and another one from Thika who has sat the exam at Kiandutu,” he said on Wednesday. The CS spoke at Kenya High School where he commissioned a CBC classroom. On matters of infrastructure and congestion due to a hundred per cent transition, Magoha said capitation funds will solve the challenge. “It will all depend on how the school heads will use that money,” he said. The CS said KCSE exam results will be released before the end of this month. Marking of the exams started this week for other subjects while coordination of Maths and English began last week. Magoha assured students from vulnerable communities that they will not miss school due to  lack of school fees. He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for adding more funding to the Elimu scholarship which will benefit at least 9,000 students. “4,000 pupils will come from slums and others from every subcounty,” he said. Magoha warned exam cheating culprits who he said are seeking help from politicians. He said they will face the law. “Politicians should stop making noise I will not listen to them, I do not do politics, am just a worker,” Magoha said. The 2021 candidates weathered a gruelling, shortened academic calendar compressed to recover time lost during the Covid-19 pandemic. The CS said 320 students had been smoked out for examination cheating in seven exam centres. However, unlike last year when the government allowed the cheats to receive their results, Magoha said this year's cheats will be punished. He said they will be awarded a zero mark in the affected subjects.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris