The larger Kibaki family has lost not only a person they loved so much but also a great pillar, a nephew of the former president has said. John Kibaki Kinyua said the retired president had imparted positively to  every member of the family and he was instrumental in ensuring they got education. “We have really benefited from his leadership. I have personally benefited from him. His deeds positively impacted on each of us socially and even economically and we shall forever be grateful for that,” he said. Kinyua said growing up they viewed Kibaki as a mentor in education, especially due to his passion for books. He said they will also remember the development projects he started in Othaya and implemented them in various capacities as MP, minister, vice-president and as a president. According to his former personal assistant Martin Gathee who served him between 1992 and 2003, Kibaki saw a day secondary school constructed in each of the sublocations in Othaya. He also rolled out a programme that saw all chiefs and their assistants have decent offices all over the constituency. When he was MP, Gathee said, he ensured he was in his office every Monday and Friday where he met residents. “He would see and engage with people who wanted to talk to him, especially parents who needed assistance in terms of school fee to take their children to either secondary school or university,” he said. He said Kibaki was generous and, though he was not known for giving handouts to people, he would quickly write cheques for parents who needed school fees. He would sponsor at least 15 to 25 students every year at a time when there was no CDF and would therefore pay their school fees from his pocket. John Kagombe, a resident of Othaya town, said the election of Kibaki in 2002 also helped greatly in removing street children from the town streets, with most of them getting rehabilitated. Kagombe said the announcement of free primary education enabled good Samaritans to take children take from the streets, rehabilitate them and take them to school. “This is one of the most important things that many people have forgotten about him but what I will remember him for,” Kagombe said. Kibaki was born to Kibaki Githinji and Wanjiku Kibaki and had four other siblings who are three brothers and one sister, Esther Waitherero, who is still alive. Kinyua said the parents were farmers. His father also sold tobacco, transporting it from Nyeri to Narok county which earned him the nickname 'Kibaki.'  (edited by Amol Awuor)