Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi will deputise Polycarp Igathe in the Nairobi Gubernatorial race. This was agreed upon after hours of consultations among the Azimio -One Kenya Alliance leaders on Thursday at State House. In the deal, Jubilee will get the governor's seat, ODM the deputy governor position, while Wiper Party will get the Speaker of the County Assembly slot. In this case, former Kibwezi MP Phillip Kaloki will be the third County Assembly speaker of Nairobi, if Raila Odinga wins the presidency. The Star has established that the first meeting was held on Thursday morning, where a section of Luhya leaders met to discuss the Nairobi leadership lineup for the Azimio coalition. Makadara MP George Aladwa and ODM Secretary General Edwin sifuna were among Luhya leaders present at the meeting. The meeting was happening at the same time Azimio principals were at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre for the first Azimio council meeting that was chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Luhya leaders' meeting later proceeded to State House at around 5 pm, where they were joined by Raila and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. The Mulembe nation was against the decision to have Wanyonyi drop his governorship bid for any other person. On Wednesday, the leaders insisted that the Mulembe nation refuses to be looked down upon and will not let themselves be used. They also gave five demands that the Azimio-OKA leadership must meet for the community to support the coalition. In their demands, the Luhya nation said they wanted the City governor and senator positions, five Cabinet secretary slots including; Road and Transport, Health, Water, Environment and Finance. They also demanded to have parliamentary seats in Nairobi County including; Westlands, Makadara, Embakasi West and Lang'ata and a chance to have leaders in 24 wards. Speaking to Citizen  TV on Thursday, Igathe announced that he had been chosen to fly the Azimio flag in the Nairobi governor race. "I'm very pleased to tell you verbally that they have already confirmed to me that they will be supporting my candidature as the governor of Nairobi County and we are going together as a team," he said. However, the lineup is set to be announced later on Friday. The decision brings in ‘complications’ for other Jubilee aspirants who have also been cleared ahead of party nominations. They include Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu, businesswoman Agnes Kagure and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia. Ngatia had earlier admitted to consultations being made on the Jubilee aspirant but said no one had been endorsed. “Consultations have been going on with several meetings at State House. Issues of Nairobi have been discussed including what the polls have been revealing about the Gubernatorial race but no preferred candidate was named,” he said. “I am still in the race until it is determined. I understand there are consultations going on but I’m sure no one has been endorsed this is a decision we leave to the party leaders to decide." In last night's meeting at State House, it was also concluded that all parties will field their candidates for the senate and woman rep positions. Nominated MP Maina Kamanda of Jubilee and ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna will be Azimio candidates for the city senate seat while incumbent Esther Passaris, Nominated Senator Beatrice Kwamboka and Former Nominated MCA Wangui Ng'ang'a will be candidates for Woman rep position.