I have been compelled to write about this topic following ceaseless and unhealthy arguments I have had with my friends regarding football matters. A few weeks ago, I made a bold prediction that my favourite team, Arsenal, would easily clinch fourth place in the English Premier League after a five-year hiatus. Well, things have unravelled for the Gunners after their losses to Crystal Palace, Brighton and Southampton. With this, I have become the butt of all jokes as my pals chide me for being a false prophet and jinxing my team's fortunes. However, I feel the banter has gone overboard, seeing as most times my pals do not want to hear any facts that I may have regarding Arsenal's freefall. I understand that by throwing all reason out of the window, my friends are simply adhering to the old English way of bantering, which is described as a no-holds-barred form of exchanging teasing remarks. However, even in England, there are voices speaking out against banter, describing it as toxic and outdated in a world where facts are increasingly becoming sacred. Yes, Arsenal may have lost but in all these games, it has been clear that there were fine margins, such as their disallowed goal against Brighton and a few ignored penalty calls. Try explaining these facts to an Arsenal hater and your comments will be met with derision and laughter. That is how my experience has been with bantering — so infuriating. The Guardian journalist Barney Ronay argues that today's banter blurs the lines between playful teasing and bullying. He points out that banter does not take into account the target's emotional state and cultural background. For example, how are you going to banter someone who just lost a bet after his or her team lost? How do you think they will take it after losing a bet of tens of thousands? Of course, do not be surprised if they react with violence and take out their frustrations on you. I used to watch football at a local video centre near my residence a few years ago and it was the toxic banter that made me prefer buying bundles and streaming games on my phone. Many are the times I couldn't concentrate on the game because of people bantering each other, sometimes to the extent of hurling unprintables. I was once watching a game between Arsenal and Liverpool and I remember two Manchester United fans who couldn't stop mocking Gunners' fans who were watching their team being demolished. Eventually, one Arsenal fan who couldn't stomach the abuse anymore stood up and tried to engage the two Red Devils in a fist fight. I do banter from time to time but understand this needs to be tempered with empathy for the rival fans. How I wish all other people knew this so we can all enjoy the game we love — in bad and good times.