Twenty-six-year-old, Hussein Ahmed Sheikh, has joined the race for Guticha MCA in Mandera. The Guticha MCA hopeful who said he is only young by age but mature at heart, is very optimistic of clinching the seat. The clinical officer was awarded the Jubilee ticket alongside Mandera gubernatorial aspirant former CS Adan Mohamed. The certificates were awarded by Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni on Monday evening. Sheikh, famously known as nirgadid waxaralaji by his social media followers, has never held any elective position but has been active in politics as a blogger. The aspirant who worked with the Wajir government before his resignation said he is in it to win and change the lives of residents. His priorities include provision of affordable healthcare. “I am joining politics with only one intention, that of serving my people, with a keen emphasis on improving the healthcare standards," Sheikh said. He said his background as a clinician will go a long way in helping him to achieve his goal. "I claim expertise in this field and if I fail to do something about the pathetic state of the sector, then I will have failed my people.  The health sector will be a litmus test for my performance,” Sheikh said. The aspirant said there is no point of putting up new structures if the current ones are not yet fully equipped. He said he will work closely with the county administration to ensure that hospitals have drugs, non pharmaceuticals and qualified staff. Sheikh said every citizen has a right to quality and affordable healthcare. He also pledged to work closely with the youth and women for their empowerment. "The wheels of development cannot move without directly incorporating the youth and women," Sheikh said. The Guticha MCA hopeful said he will also push for the construction of more ECDE classrooms as well as recruitment of more teachers because the foundation is key. “We will collaborate with relevant authorities and focus on improving the system and performance of existing schools. We will also work on building schools where necessary," he said. Sheikh said he will constantly engage teachers, motivate and appreciate them for the good work they do for the children and society as whole. He also promised to push for access to clean water as it is every citizens right. "Over and above, I want to remain a voice for the poor and less privileged in the society,” Sheikh said. Despite his youthfulness, Sheikh has been endorsed by one of the major communities in the ward, the Dumal. He said he has received massive support from residents who have encouraged him to vie for the post regardless of his age. “It is my people who pushed me to contest. They kept telling me to resign and come back home to serve them. I couldn't ignore their request," Sheikh said.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha)