Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party on Wednesday issued a total of 1, 745 nomination certificates to candidates eyeing various seats in the upcoming general election. The exercise which brought together nominees for governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs, and ward representatives from across the country happened ahead of Thursday’s deadline as set by the independent electoral and boundaries commission (IEBC). During a meeting with representatives of political parties on Tuesday, the electoral body extended for another 20 days the period in which presidential and gubernatorial candidates are expected to submit the names of their running mates. It, however, asked the particular parties that conducted primaries to digitally submit the names of successful nominees for other positions by today. The body’s chairman Wafula Chebukati said the names will be subjected to examination by various state bodies which include higher education loans board, Kenya revenue authority, ethics and anti-corruption commission and directorate of criminal investigations. A total of 42 gubernatorial candidates who are either defending or making stabs for the position were issued the certificates alongside 44 senatorial nominees. For MP seats there were 74 certificates being awarded, woman representatives (45) and 1340 for MCAs. The candidate for Nandi hills MP seat will have to wait until a petition filed at the political parties tribunal by Alfred Keter challenging is concluded. Those who spoke to us expressed optimism of clinching their seats urging their opponents in rival camps to brace for a tough duel. Gatundu South MP aspirant GG Kagombe said despite President Uhuru Kenyatta being a resident he does not fear but will battle it out with other candidates since UDA was the popular party in the county. “He knows I am on the race and I am in for nothing but a win, I have had a one-on-one session with him, and confirmed to me that even though he is not supporting me I am going to win it,” Kagombe said. The 28-year-old Kirinyaga nominee for woman representative on her echoed the sentiment while thanking the party for ensuring the nomination was fair to all. “UDA is the party where youth can grow; it is a place where young people are allowed to take up their space without anyone looking down upon you,” she stated.