A Robert Masibo hat-trick was all that Kenya Police needed to beat underwhelming Mombasa Sports Club 3-0 in the Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League match at the City Park Stadium on Sunday. Masibo opened his account by scoring from a penalty corner to give the Law enforcers a fourth-minute lead while playing in his preferred central defensive position. Police coach Patrick Mugambi shifted Masibo to the wingback position in the second half where he completed his hat-trick in the 45th and 60th minutes respectively. "It was a good match but we are not yet at our peak condition," Mugambi noted. "The three-day Easter tournament will help boost our fitness levels as we prepare for a grueling period," the coach said.  Police lost to Western Jaguars 2-1 last weekend. He added: "Masibo has really improved from the last couple of seasons. He is now an integral player and we expect a lot from him going forward." It was below par weekend for the Mariano Asoka-captained MSC, whose top-flight status got a reality check following a second consecutive loss. The newbies lost 4-3 to Strathmore Gladiators on Saturday before succumbing to Police 3-0. Inexperience was MSC's main undoing but Asoka has promised to go back on the drawing board in a bid to correct their mistakes and bounce back to winning ways in their next assignment. "Police were technically better than us. They utilised their experience quite well. We had our chances which we didn't convert. I think we lack the technical know-how and our ball movement needs to improve before we play Parkroad and Sailors." Elsewhere, Western Jaguars lost their second-weekend match against Wazalendo in Kakamega. A John Rioba's 11th-minute goal guaranteed maximum points for the South B-based side. Jaguars lost to USIU-A Mashujaa by the same margin. Jaguars have only won once in their last four matches. In the women's category, USIU-A Spartans edged Lakers 1-0 in Kisumu. National women's captain Rhoda Kuira scored in the  47th minute for the students.