Kwale ODM members have forged a special alliance as a way of strengthening the party ahead of the August 9 polls. The union is supposed to end political enmity between aspirants and solidify the party at the grassroots level. Previously, ODM branch in the region had developed cracks following the issuance of direct tickets and party nominations tussle. There has been a supremacy battle among members on who was to be given a party ticket. The recently concluded nominations also brewed more hatred as some aspirants rejected the results, threatening to ditch the party. Speaking Friday when ODM members met in Ukunda, the party county chairman Hassan Mwanyoha said they have united for a common course. He said they have decided to put aside their political differences to popularise Azimio la Umoja campaign and ring-fence the region. "It's true that there have been complaints but that is because of some little disagreement. We are gathered here to address that and move forward," he said. The meeting was attended by all aspirants vying for different political seats. At least 19 ward representative hopefuls were present. The convention was organised by Hamadi Iddi Boga who will be running for the governor seat through an ODM ticket. Hamadi is among the Kwale leaders who were given direct tickets. Mwanyoha said they have spoken to the party members and helped them reach a consensus. He said they agreed that those who lost in the nominations will be given special jobs when the Azimio presidential hopeful becomes president. "Raila Odinga's government will have many opportunities and those who didn't secure political seats [should know] their contribution will not go unrewarded," he said. Mwanyoha is contesting the Matuga parliamentary seat through the ODM ticket. Boga said they want to form a strong team that will ensure ODM takes all the seats come the general election. He said the aspirants used to work independently hence the need to break the barrier and match together to clinch victory. "This meeting will enable us get to know one another and reach a mutual understanding," Boga said. He said Kwale is an ODM stronghold and the newly-formed squad of political leaders will jealously protect Raila's territory and lockout other parties. Boga was accompanied by Senator Issa Boi, Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan who is eyeing the Kinango MP seat and Nominated MCA Fatuma Masito who will be battling for the Woman Representative position. Boi is defending his seat for the second time. He said they have decided to rally behind Boga and Raila because the two are visionary leaders and have great plans for the residents. Zuleikha, on the other hand, said she trusts their alliance, adding that the team can deliver effectively. The Kinango parliamentary aspirant said they are ready for the major battle, adding that the success will be theirs. Masito said the team took an oath to serve together, share the burden and stand by the party no matter the outcome. "Residents are tired of fake promises and that's why they want to vote for Raila because they believe in change and development," she said. Lunga-Lunga and Msambweni MP aspirants Mrabu Chaka and Ali Mwakulonda respectively were also present.  (edited by Amol Awuor)