Some Kirinyaga leaders have endorsed Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua as Azimio La Umoja coalition's presidential running mate. The leaders allied to the Jubilee party described Karua as an insightful and experienced leader worthy of such a high ranking government position. Led by Senator Charles Kibiru, the leaders called on the coalition's  presidential candidate Raila Odinga to consider nominating Karua as his deputy. He said both Raila and Karua have demonstrated steadfastness and patriotism to the country thus will work harmoniously for the benefit of the nation. In addition, he hailed Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu for bringing together women championing for the nomination of Karua. "We are grateful to Ngilu and many other Kenyans for popularising Karua to be handed the job.We are hopeful Raila will heed to the call and do the necessary." Speaking in Kerugoya on Tuesday, the senator said with her wealth of leadership experience spanning over 20 years, Karua is equal to the task of becoming the first Kenyan woman deputy president. In addition, he noted that with Karua's presence, Kirinyaga and the entire Mt Kenya region will benefit under an Azimio la Umoja government. His sentiments were backed by county party leader Muriithi Kang'ara who praised Karua for exhibiting high standards of integrity thus reputable to serve a high ranking position. "Karua has a reputation for being accountable and remaining true to her call. We are positive that once she assumes office, the large-scale plundering in the country will come to an end and all those who have looted the public coffers will have to pay." A few weeks ago, deputy governor Peter Ndambiri urged Karua to remain in the national politics as she is too influential a leader to play county politics. Their sentiments come even as wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is equally eyeing and pushing to be picked as Raila's running mate. Karua who hails from Gichugu has already declared her interest in unseating incumbent Anne Waiguru through the Narc Kenya party. However, should she be nominated as Raila's running mate,there is a high probability she might abandon the governorship bid. Karua who joined the Azimio la Umoja late last month, said she made the decision as her party is in support of the 10 point agenda being marketed by the political movement. In addition, she said Azimio has a considerable number of accountable leaders who have the best interest of Kenyans at heart. The electoral agency IEBC has given presidential aspirants up to April 28 to have forwarded the names of their running mates.   -Edited by SKanyara