Some Nyeri leaders have urged residents not to concentrate more on national politics at the expense of local politics. Senator Ephraim Maina, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu and former Nyeri Woman Representative Priscilla Nyokabi said electing quality MCAs, MPs, senators and governors is equally important. Maina is vying for Nyeri governor, Wambugu is defending his seat while Nyokabi is eyeing senatorship. They said residents have been focusing too much on national politics forgetting they also need quality leadership at the grassroots. Maina said it is evident that counties that do not choose their leaders carefully have lagged behind in development while those who elected visionary leaders have achieved a lot. They spoke at Kagumo Teachers Training College in Nyeri town on Monday where Maina had convened a meeting with primary, secondary and ECDE teachers’ leadership to share his vision for the county. They urged teachers to be ambassadors of change and enlighten people in their areas on the importance of electing visionary leaders from the Jubilee party. “You teachers are more informed and you should be educating people on what is good for them,” he said. Teachers, he said, were the most honoured in villages and that he was ready to help restore the profession’s former glory in Nyeri  if elected governor. Maina said teachers have been going through hardships and especially in the hands of county governments who do not seem to appreciate their role in society. “It actually pains my heart when I hear the story of ECDE teachers who are paid less than farm hands yet they are well educated with some of them having degrees,” he said. He said farmhands pocket Sh9,000 to Sh10,000 per month while the teachers get less than that after deductions. He attributed the declining education standards in the county to demoralisation of teachers, saying the county used to take a high percentage of students to university which is not the case today. “When I am your governor and we agree to walk together, my administration will be a government that will be taking teachers’ voices into consideration,” he said. The senator said he will have a meeting with all county teachers after his election to explore ways of reviving the declining education standards. Maina also emphasised on the need to motivate learners saying this also helps to improve their grades. “So with me (as governor), you teachers have nothing to worry about. You can be sure that every teacher from ECDE, primary, secondary and VTCs will be taken care of.” His other vision he said will be to ensure hospitals are well equipped with drugs and non-pharmaceutical items. He said the county has received Sh25 billion from the national government since the start of devolution but has nothing tangible to show for the money. Wambugu also emphasised on the need to elect good leaders saying they are the ones who will be with the people regularly on the ground. It is the county governor who determines the state of ECDE classrooms, markets, hospitals and ensures there are enough extension officers visiting farms to guide farmers, he added. The MP drummed up support for Maina saying Nyeri will be safe hands as he understands the importance of education, is respected and one of the most experienced politicians in the area. As a result, he said, Maina cannot easily be arm twisted by anyone to do anything that is not for the best interest of his people. “If we elect people who can be arm twisted by other leaders, then we shall be in trouble for the next five years. That is why I am supporting Maina 100 per cent.” Nyokabi termed Maina as a leader with integrity who will fight graft in the county government.    -Edited by SKanyara