One of the world’s most popular messaging applications, Telegram is rolling out a massive update that will introduce new features and tools. Users can now create their own notification tones, setting custom durations for muting chats or auto-deleting messages as well as improved forwarding that preserves replies. Custom notification tones Users will be able to turn any sounds into notification tones. “They will be able to create custom alerts from their favourite music or even memes.  Tap a short audio file or voice message in chat to instantly ass it to your list of notification sounds which you can assign to any chat,” they said in a statement. The telegram tones will be completely free for use and are cross-platform. Silent notification and mute chat For years, the telegram has been unable to mute chats. Its users have been unable to take a break from notifications. The new feature will allow users to pause notifications for a specific duration and disable sounds, to receive notifications silently. Auto delete menu in profile This new feature automatically deletes conversations after a set period. The feature can be enabled in any chat to make a conversation more confidential or less cluttered. Depending on your setting, it can delete chats from 2 days, 3 weeks, 4 months and more. Replies in Forwarded messages Back in 2015, Telegram was the first application to make replies easy and efficient to navigate. Basically, by swiping left on any message, you can reply to it. Your reply will include a small preview you can tap instantly to jump to the original message. The same reply preview will be included when forwarding messages to other chats so everyone can see the full context of your reply. Improved message translation on IOS Just like Android, those who use iOS can now fully enjoy a translation feature that has a better quality translation from many more languages. Improved picture in picture for android. Any video on the Telegram mobile application can be viewed Picture in Picture, so you can keep chatting while you watch whatever video that you are playing. Telegram has introduced a new rounded design that also enables you to resize the video by pinching the corners to change the dimension. New Animations Keeping your number up to date is essential so that you can always receive log-in codes and access your account. The interface for changing your number in settings has a new look. When changing your phone number update, an animated duck will help you walk through the process. More animated emojis In case you are looking for food that moves, simply send a message with a single emoji. Cake, popcorn, fries, ice cream, pancakes, cookies, hot dogs, burritos etc.