Kenyan junior race walker Margaret Gati says the World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia will be an opportunity to atone for her atrocious eighth-place finish at last year's edition at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The 19-year-old, who clocked 49:15.12 at the August 17-22 event, says she picked valuable lessons from the unpleasant result and is going for nothing less than a podium finish. "With this walk career, I will go far. This time, I am so motivated and prepared to fight for my place on the plane to Colombia. After losing, I gave myself a challenge that this year I want to run well in Colombia. I want to revenge against those girls who beat me in Kasarani,” Gati said. The Kisii-born has been looking up to fellow race walkers, World under 18 10,000m race walk silver medalist Dominic Samson Ndigiti as well as Emily Ngii, for inspiration. "Back home, I am the only girl in race walking. I used to get training programmes from Ndigiti because we don’t come from the same camp. He has been motivating me and handing over skills like how to move legs and hands. When I join the senior ranks, I want to walk like Ngii,” she said. The form two student at Cheptonon Secondary School is among junior athletes who have been training at Kapkoimur athletics camp in Nandi county in preparation for the Colombia show. Gati said she has improved on her weak aspects, including timing, speed, and endurance. “Through this camp,  I have known what is needed, unlike other days when I lacked such. I have learned things that I can do to move forward. I left Kisii to come here and train with coach Robert Ngisirei,” she said. Another walker, Daniel Kiprono, is optimistic of making the team after missing out last year. “I used to train alone in Nandi and when I met Ndigiti he started advising me because there was no race walk coach in Nandi. This year, I have been training and am motivated for greatness,” he said. At the national trials last year, Kiprono finished third behind Heristone Wanyonyi, who went ahead to win the maiden gold for Kenya.