Despite the pathetic road leading to Orero Boys High School in Rangwe, Homa Bay county, it posted the best results in KCSE in Nyanza. The school headed by Dickens Bula posted a mean score of 9.4, the highest in the region. The deplorable road serves the subcounty headquarters and hospital, IEBC office, schools, and other government offices. The school, established in 1968, had 480 candidates with 478 getting direct university entry. Deputy principal Dominic Onyango said six candidates scored A plain, 66 A-, 156  B+, 158 got B, 81 B-, 11 C+, one scored C plain and the last candidate had a C minus. Orero manage to eclipse giant schools like Maranda School (9.1), Maseno School (8.86), Kanga Boys High School (9.24) and Asumbi Girls High School (8.81). Onyango said the school attained a positive deviation of 0.169. He attributed the success to dedicated and motivated staff, discipline, hard work and teamwork from both teachers and students. “We exposed the candidates to many exams which also helped them  perform well,” Onyango said. The deputy principal said they expected good results because they had prepared the students well. Despite not meeting their targeted mean of 10.30, he said the school still performed well and expressed optimism that they will realise their dream. "With the commitment of teachers and students, we are working towards achieving our target. We hope that we will get it in the forthcoming exam," Onyango said Last year, Orero had 397 candidates and attained a mean score of 9.2. Four scored A plain, 51 had A-, 111 B+, 129 B plain, 78 got B-, 21 with C plus, two C plain and last one scored a C-. Onyango called for more funding to the extra county schools for infrastructure development like in national schools. "With proper funding and given an equal platform we will have the capacity to perform better than some national schools," he said. On the deplorable road to the school, he appealed to the MP, county and government to help repair the road. Teacher in charge of academics Paul Anangwe said they have been consistent in good performance and they are working towards bettering the results. “Our teaching staff are happy and motivated and we want to inculcate that in our students,” he said. Ogande Girls High School in Homa Bay county ,where Ida Odinga, is an alumni also performed well in the KCSE. The school chief principal Dr Jenipher Otolo said the school got a mean score of 7.5. A total of 331 candidates were registered but one died ahead of the exam, which partly affected other. They managed five A-, 18 B+, 50 B, 83 B-, 91C+, 62 C plain, 18 C- and one D+. (Edited by Tabnacha O)