Six matches in the Kenya Women's Premier League are lined up for this weekend as the ‪2021/22‬ season enters its final stages. Leaders Vihiga Queens face Trans-Nzoia Falcons at the ASK Showground in Kitale on Sunday. Vihiga have 35 points and the three - time national champions are on course for a fourth gong in five years judging by their unbeaten run thus far. The Boniface Nyamunyamu-tutored side settled for a 1-1 draw against Super Cup champions Ulinzi at Mumias Sports Complex last weekend and a win over Falcons will boost their title aspirations. Defending champions Thika Queens face a well-oiled Gaspo team in an encounter expected to produce fireworks. Both sides recorded vital victories in their previous encounters. Thika have recovered from their early season slump and a win for them will enable them to claim second spot should Ulinzi drop points. FKF Women's Cup champions Ulinzi Starlets will look to maximise their home advantage when they host Wadadia at Ruaraka. Wadadia are battling relegation after blowing hot and cold this season. They are one point above the drop zone, sitting ninth in the 12-team league. Despite losing only once, Ulinzi find themselves trailing Vihiga by nine points. Bunyore Starlets will look to arrest their poor away form as they visit Nakuru City Queens on Sunday. Coached by Zachariah Amakhanga, Bunyore lost 3-0 against Thika last Sunday. The side will once again be without Juliana Kaupe and Shalyn Onjote who are recovering from injuries they sustained against Wadadia a fortnight ago. Zetech Sparks will be looking for   back-to-back win for the first time this season as they tackle Kayole at Gems Cambridge, Nairobi. Sparks under coach Benard Kitolo, slayed Kisumu All Starlets 3-1 in their last match. A relegation fight pits Kangemi Ladies against Kisumu. Kangemi, on three points, have managed just one win in 13 matches and the tail-enders are destined for relegation unless their form improves. Kisumu have nine points and will get out of the red zone should they win and Wadadia draw or lose. Editing by Tony Mballa