Tragedy struck a family after their son jumped off the seventh floor of a hostel in Kasarani, Nairobi, and died on the spot in apparent suicide. The deceased had traveled from Nanyuki with his parents to visit his sister at the hostel ahead of a planned appointment with a doctor when he jumped to his death. The family told police that he had excused himself to go to the balcony and suddenly jumped off in the Tuesday evening incident. He landed on the head and died on the spot. Police identified him as Joshua Riiba, 32, and said they are investigating the incident. Elsewhere in Kahawa West, Joshua Mungai ,24, died by suicide after using a manila rope to hang himself in the house. This was after he had argued with his family members and threatened to commit suicide. The incidents are the latest in a series of suicide cases reported in the past few days. Police said the worrying trend has been on an increase and they now record up to two cases daily. Victims include police officers. Police spokesman Bruno Shioso said the issue needs a serious attention to address it. The World Health Organisation says such cases are attributed to joblessness, breakup of relationships, death, academic failures, legal and financial difficulties. Bullying, previous suicide attempts, history of suicide in a family, alcoholism and substance misuse, depression and bipolar disorder. WHO also rates suicide as a serious global public health issue that is among the top 20 leading causes of death worldwide. Globally, close to 800,000 people die out of suicide every year with an estimated 78 per cent of cases occurring in low- middle-income countries. Kenya ranks position 114 among the 175 countries with the highest suicide rates. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has since said the country is in the process of putting up a National Suicide Prevention Strategy and Programme 2021-26, in line with the WHO guidelines. A task force on mental health established that Kenya has a high burden of mental illness due to ill health, psychosocial disability and premature mortality with huge gaps in access to care. The team found out that the majority of population associate mental health and mental illness with negative narratives leading to a low focus on the importance and benefits of mental health and well being. The team also recommended that mental illness be declared a national emergency of epidemic proportions, to prioritise mental health as a public health and socioeconomic agenda. It recommended that mental health be provided adequate financing in line with international best practice. (Edited by Tabnacha O)