Former Cherangany legislator Wesley Korir is now the United Democratic Alliance Party’s nominee. The former Boston Marathon champion garnered 16,946 votes winning the hotly contested race that attracted seven candidates. John Tunduria, a former banker came second with 7,522. Others are Joshua Kosgei, an athlete who managed to convince 5,332 voters and John Njuguna, a Kitale based businessman who garnered 5,171. Shadrack Kimutai, a former Chief Officer in the County Government of Trans Nzoia scored 950 votes and was followed by former Education and ICT Executive Member Dr Isaac Kogo with 936. Simotwo Kororia came last with 267 votes. Korir who served in the eleventh Parliament enjoyed a massive following across the Kalenjin dominated constituency in Trans Nzoia County. In his acceptance his speech, Korir promised to unite all the residents of Cherangany constituency without any form of bias. "I want to really extend my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Cherangany for believing in me. I also want to ask them to extend the same in the August 9 elections so that we can deliver this seat," Korir said. Korir will face off with the incumbent Joshua Kutuny who is defending his parliamentary seat on a Jubilee party ticket. The nominations had been called off yesterday by the constituency returning officer Victor Rotich after protests from other aspirants and their supporters who accused the returning officer of favouring Korir. The pronouncement of the returning officer led to angry voters burning some polling materials. Other materials that remained were salvaged by security officers who were manning the centre. The burning of the materials led to the confrontation between the supporters of the former Member of Parliament Wesley Korir and supporters of the other aspirants in the hotly contested race. Korir will also face former DCI officer Patrick Simiyu who will be flying the Democratic Action Party of Kenya flag and Ford Kenya national legal affairs secretary Benson Milimo who are also in the race. Speaking to the Star on Friday in Cherangany, the former MP denied any wrongdoing in the just concluded primaries, accusing his opponents of lying. Elsewhere in the same constituency, an aspirant for Sinyereri ward Emily Kitur accused the constituency returning officer of allegedly announcing the sitting MCA Abraham Mwale as a winner. "The CRO doctored the results and announced the sitting MCA as the winner when I had beaten him down, I have asked the party leadership to take appropriate action against the returning officer," she said. Kitur said it was evil on the side of the constituency returning officer colluding with the ward representative and security officers manning the station to have results doctored. "My irreducible minimum is to be given my certificate because I got 1540 while my opponent got 1508. How he was declared a winner with 1600 votes without being given a certificate is still puzzling me," she said. The CRO denied the elections saying the exercise was free and fair. Former Cherangany legislator Wesley Korir is now the United Democratic Alliance Party’s nominee. The former Boston Marathon champion garnered 16,946 votes winning the hotly contested race that attracted seven candidates. John Tunduria, a former banker came second with 7,522. Others are Joshua Kosgei, an athlete who managed to convince 5,332 voters and John Njuguna, a Kitale based businessman who garnered 5,171. Shadrack Kimutai, a former Chief Officer in the County Government of Trans Nzoia scored 950 votes and he was followed by former Education and ICT Executive Member Dr Isaac Kogo with 936. Simotwo Kororia came last with 267 votes. Korir who served in the eleventh Parliament enjoyed a massive following across the Kalenjin dominated constituency in Trans Nzoia County. Making his acceptance his speech, Korir promised to unite all the residents of Cherang'any constituency without any form of bias. "I want to really extend my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Cherang'any for believing in me. I also want to ask them to extend the same in the August 9 elections so that we can deliver this seat," Korir said. Korir will face off with the incumbent Member of Parliament Joshua Kutuny who is defending his parliamentary seat on a Jubilee party ticket. The nominations had been called off yesterday by the constituency returning officer victor Rotich after protests from other aspirants and their supporters who accused the returning officer of favouring Korir. The pronouncement of the returning officer led to angry voters burning some polling materials. Other materials that remained were salvaged by security officers who were manning the centre. The burning of the materials led to the confrontation between the supporters of the former Member of Parliament Wesley Korir and supporters of the other aspirants in the hotly contested race. Korir will now be facing former DCI officer Patrick Simiyu who will be flying the Defense Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa allied Democratic Action Party DAP-K and Ford Kenya national legal affairs secretary Benson Milimo who are also in the race. Speaking to the Star on Friday in Cherangany, the former MP Korir denied any wrongdoing in the just concluded primaries and accused his opponents of lying. Elsewhere in the same constituency, an aspirant for Sinyereri ward Emily Kitur accused the constituency returning officer of allegedly announcing the sitting MCA Abraham Mwale as a winner. "The CRO doctored the results and announced the sitting MCA as the winner when I had beaten him down, I have asked the party leadership to take appropriate action against the returning officer," she said. Kitur said it was evil on the side of the constituency returning officer colluding with the ward representative and security officers manning the station to have results doctored. "My irreducible minimum is to be given my certificate because I got 1540 while my opponent got 1508. How he was declared a winner with 1600 votes without being given a certificate is still puzzling me," she said. The CRO denied the elections saying the exercise was free and fair.