Former Cherangany MP Wesley Korir will face incumbent Joshua Kutuny in his bid to recapture the seat he lost in 2017. Korir on Thursday won the United Democratic Alliance ticket in the constituency. Korir, the former Boston Marathon champion, garnered 16,946 votes, winning the hotly contested race that attracted seven candidates. John Tunduria, a former banker, came second with 7,522 votes. Others are Joshua Kosgei, an athlete, who got 5,332 voters. John Njuguna, a Kitale-based businessman, garnered 5,171. Shadrack Kimutai, a former Chief Officer in the County Government of Trans Nzoia, got 950 votes and was followed by former Education and ICT Executive Member Dr Isaac Kogo with 936. Simotwo Kororia came last with 267 votes. Korir, who served in the 11th Parliament, enjoyed a massive following across the Kalenjin dominated constituency in Trans Nzoia County. Making his acceptance his speech, Korir promised to unite all the residents of Cherang'any constituency without any bias. "I want to really extend my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Cherang'any for believing in me. I also want to ask them to extend the same in August 9 elections so that we can deliver this seat," Korir said. Korir will face off with the incumbent MP Joshua Kutuny in August. Kutuny is defending his seat on a Jubilee party ticket. The nominations had been called off yesterday by the constituency returning officer victor Rotich after other aspirants and their supporters accused the returning officer of favouring Korir. The pronouncement of the returning officer led to angry voters burning some polling materials. Other materials that remained were salvaged by security officers who were manning the centre. The burning of the materials led to the confrontation between the supporters of Korir and supporters of the other aspirants. Korir will now face former DCI officer Patrick Simiyu, who will be flying the Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa-allied Democratic Action Party (DAP-K), and Ford Kenya national legal affairs secretary Benson Milimo. Korir denied any wrongdoing in the just concluded primaries and accused his opponents of lying. Elsewhere in the same constituency, an aspirant for Sinyereri Ward Emily Kitur accused the constituency returning officer of allegedly announcing the sitting MCA Abraham Mwale as a winner. "The CRO doctored the results and announced the sitting MCA as the winner when I had beaten him down, I have asked the party leadership to take appropriate action against the returning officer," she said. "My irreducible minimum is to be given my certificate because I got 1,540 while my opponent got 1,508. How he was declared a winner with 1,600 votes without being given a certificate is still puzzling me," she said.