Champions Shujaa will face Senegal in their opening match of the Africa Cup Sevens qualifier-cum-Commonwealth Games qualifier on Saturday in Kampala. In the fixtures released on Tuesday, hosts Uganda will meet Burundi while Zimbabwe will face Buskin Faso. Other fixtures will see Namibia confront Ghana, Zimbabwe have a date with Cameroon while Tunisia meet Mauritius. The format will be a straight knockout with the winners advancing to the next round and the losers playing in the classification matches. Head coach Innocent Simiyu is expected to field a strong squad for the two-day rugby extravaganza with three teams qualifying for the Rugby World Cup Sevens tournament in Cape Town, South Africa. Two more teams will qualify for the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July.  Kenya have already qualified for the Club Games based on their rankings from previous tournaments. Simiyu is expected to recall Alvin 'Buffa' Otieno, Johnstone Olindi, and Jeff Oluoch for the World Cup qualifier as he hopes to find the combinations for the qualifiers. Speaking at the conclusion of the tournament in Vancouver, Simiyu hinted at minimal changes to the side for the qualifiers. “This is a big event and we must look at the players' workload and recovery and our aim will be to win the tournament,” said Simiyu. The former skippers said every game will be like a final and there will be no margin for error during the day two event. “We have to be at our best from the first match to the last one. It's going to be quite competitive considering Uganda and Zimbabwe have quality teams and have been training for the past three months,” added Simiyu. Kenya won the Africa Cup Sevens tournament in 2019 after beating Uganda 29-0 in the final in Johannesburg. The Africa Sevens then acted as an Olympic qualifier for the 2020 Tokyo  Olympic Games. Kenya Lionesses will play the World Cup and Commonwealth Games qualifier in Tunisia at the end of the month with one team qualifying for the Club Games and two teams set to play at the World Cup.