Nyeri governor aspirant Thuo Mathenge has unveiled Esther Maina as his running mate in the August 9 race. The duo will vie on the New Democrats Party, whose deputy leader is Jimmy Kibaki. Jimmy has also announced his interest in the Nyeri Senate seat. Speaking on Monday in Nyeri, Thuo said the decision to appoint a woman as his deputy was to enhance gender inclusivity in his government. Thuo or Wanguku, as he is popularly known, described his deputy as a tried and tested consummate professional with a deep understanding and awareness of the political landscape in Nyeri county. He said the county deserves someone who has its interests at heart and who will transform it by creating jobs for the youth. “I was looking for someone with brains and humbleness that can talk, listen and interact with the elderly women because I want to serve the Nyeri people most effectively," he said. To ensure his deputy is always engaged in county matters, Thuo said he will allocate her two departments in his government in case they win the election. He said his administration will be keen on setting up industries, youth funds and empowerment programmes, among others. On her part, Maina congratulated the party for picking her to deputise Thuo. She described herself as an aspirant who is closer to the common citizen and vowed to offer her best and transform the leadership of Nyeri. She said that through their partnership with like-minded Kenyans, they will make the county great. Maina described Thuo as a principled leader who is visionary and disciplined. Others in the governor race  include Senator Ephraim Maina (Jubilee), Peter Munyiri (CCK), incumbent Mutahi Kahiga (UDA) and Gachara Kamanga (Independent). Other than Thuo, the others are yet to announce their deputy publicly. Governor Kahiga is expected to announce his new running mate after he fell out with Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu, who is said to be eyeing an elective seat. Kahiga was recently awarded UDA direct ticket by Deputy President William Ruto to defend his seat. (edited by Amol Awuor)