Migori county police have arrested 12 suspects armed with crude weapons on Monday dawn as security is being beefed up in Orange Democratic Movement primaries. Suna East police boss Esau Ochorokodi said they were alerted that the suspects, whom he called “political goons” were spotted in two vehicles and wanted to disrupt voting before it starts. “The suspects were arrested in Bondo Nyironge in Suna West constituency area and five sharp pangas, two rungus and booklets associated with an MP aspirant were found,” Ochorokodi said. He said they were on high alert especially in the Suna West constituency, the only constituency having MP voting nominations after others were issued with direct tickets. “We will treat them as criminals and we will take them to court tomorrow as we finalise investigations, our officers and DCIO officers are still on high alert and we have beefed enough security,” Ochorokodi said. In Migori County, the ODM party will only have voting in the Suna West MP, Woman Representative and 40 wards seats across the county. The governor ticket was offered to senator Ochillo Ayacko, the senator ticket was given to Eddy Oketch and all other MPs got direct tickets. They include Junet Mohammed (Suna East), Paul Abuor (Rongo), Walter Owino (Awendo), Mark Nyamita (Uriri) and Tom Odege (Nyatike). In most polling centres visited by the Star, voting was going on smoothly despite long lines experienced from dawn with voting starting around 9 am. “We have a peaceful voting process and we laud the security for bringing peace, especially the previous night as we were afraid of chaos,” Peter Masara, Suna West MP said after casting his vote at Oruba Mixed Secondary School. Masara said the speed of using digital tablets was commendable but called on the party next time to use booths to enhance privacy. His sole rival, Joseph Ndiege, voted at Bondo Nyironge Primary School and cited that security officers have been intimidating his supporters, but said he was confident of winning. ODM party decided to carry out voting in Suna West after an opinion poll showed Masara and Ndiege only had a 7 per cent gap between them. In the Woman Representative race, Josephine Sirega, a former Radio Ramogi FM presenter, opted out just hours to the polls saying she will vie on an Independent ticket. “I can’t involve myself in ODM primaries whose results are already predetermined and what is happening is only a formality. I will be in the general elections on an Independent ticket,” she said. She left nominated MP Dennitah Ghati, business ladies Fatuma Mohammed,  Zilpa Audline and Millicent Kajimba to fight for the ticket.