ODM leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday promised Coast residents he will return port services to Mombasa within the first 100 days if elected president on August 9. He also promised to fast-track the construction of the Special Economic Zone in Dongo Kundu within one year. However, UDA leaders in Mombasa, led by former Senator Hassan Omar rubbished the claims, saying Azimio leaders do not have the interests of residents at heart. Omar and his troops, including Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, said Raila, President Uhuru Kenyatta, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir have no intention of addressing the port issue. The transfer of port services has become a hot topic in both the gubernatorial and presidential campaigns in Mombasa and the Coast region. The Jubilee administration in 2019 issued a directive forcing cargo haulage from the Mombasa port to be strictly via SGR, a matter that killed the transport sector in Mombasa. Speaking in Mombasa on Tuesday evening during a brief event to issue certificates to ODM candidates in the region, Raila said port services are key to Mombasa's economic growth. “We shall return port services to Mombasa within the first 100 days. I will also see to it that the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone is completed within one year so that our youth and women get jobs,” Raila said. However, Omar said the Azimio leaders, who have enjoyed massive support from Mombasa and coastal people, betrayed the very people they are now trying to pacify. “In 2017, Joho campaigned against the transfer of port services to Naivasha and swayed the Mombasa people to his side. He, however, betrayed them and allowed the transfer after he got what he wanted,” Omar said. He claimed Azimio wants to take control of who becomes Mombasa governor. The governor's race in Mombasa has attracted Omar, Nassir, Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo, Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi, former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti. Businessman Suleiman Shahbal dropped his bid in favour of Nassir after being convinced to step down by Raila and Uhuru. However, he is said to be rethinking his decision after pressure from his supporters. Raila on Tuesday said he was the brains behind the SGR project, which he said was meant to economically empower both the coastal region and the country at large. “Former President Mwai Kibaki and I are the brains behind the SGR. I understand the economy of Mombasa well, therefore, you should not worry,” the former PM said. Raila assured Mombasa people that if he wins, Mombasa will become the next ‘Dubai’, attracting international investments. However, Omar and Ali said the Azimio coalition leaders have no proper plan to execute their pledges, which they termed "hot air". Omar said they plan to publish details of the SGR contract between the Kenyan and Chinese governments, saying such contracts that involve taxpayers’ money ought not to be secretive. He said Deputy President William Ruto has an agreement with Coast MPs that if he wins the presidency, he will within the first three months make an executive order to return ports services to Mombasa. He said Uhuru will not allow port services to be returned to Mombasa after taking them to Naivasha. “That is why they fear a Ruto presidency. Ruto will cancel two contracts that expose Kenyans at the port,” Omar said. He said the contract, which gives a private firm control of Container Terminal 2 at the Mombasa port, will be the first to be cancelled should Ruto take over the presidency. Omar also said Ruto is keen to stop the privatisation of berths 11-14 at the Mombasa port, which he said have been given to some Arabian individuals to run on behalf of some powerful individuals. “The privatisation of the berths in the guise of seeking efficiency will lead to job losses for our Mombasa and coastal people,” he said. Edited by A.N