The second Regional Heads of State Conclave on the DRC met on Thursday at State House, Nairobi to discuss on peace promotion, and development in Eastern DRC, and her neighbors. The Conclave was hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta. In attendance were his counterparts President  Félix Tshesekedi of DRC, President Évariste Ndayishimiye of Burundi, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, and Rwandan Foreign Minister who represented President Paul Kagame of Rwanda. The leaders in their frank, and cordial discussions agreed to invite other Heads of State in East Africa to join the Conclave and to engage them in the coming meetings. They also agreed to welcome an observer of a representative of the United Nations Secretary General, the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Secretary General of the ICGLR and the Secretary General of the East African Community. " The observer is to participate when called upon by the DRC," the agreement said. They also decided to invite bilateral partners such as the US, and France in an observer status. The leaders also agreed upon formation of a secretariat to oversee the implementation of the agreements made. "The Secretariat will be administered by the Special Envoy in the Office of the President of the DRC, and the President of Kenya (the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kenya is designated to play this role ad interim) with the participation of representatives from the Executive Offices of the other Heads of State of the East African Community," they added. Further, the Concave vowed to progress the work of the meeting along two tracks. They agreed that a political track is needed, and decided that political process be commenced under the leadership of Uhuru to facilitate consultations to be undertaken between the DRC and local armed groups in the country. The meeting also recalled that a consultative dialogue between President Tshesekedi and the representatives of the local armed groups is to take place at the earliest possible time. Folllowing the discussion, the leaders were informed that Tshesekedi is expected to chair such a consultative meeting on Friday, April 22 and he will give the Concave the outcomes of the meeting in the next meeting. Uhuru agreed to host and provide logistical support for the consultations in Nairobi. They also agreed upon the track of military enforcement. "Pursuant to an agreement following the first Heads of State Conclave to accelerate the establishment of a regional force to help contain and, where necessary, fight the negative forces, the meeting directed the urgent deployment of such a force." They also directed that planning will commence with immediate effect with the full consultation of relevant authorities in the region. The directions given include, all local armed groups in DRC will participate unconditionally in the political process to resolve their grievances. "Failure to do so the groups will be considered as negative forces and handled militarily by the region." Further, all foreign armed groups in DRC must disarm and return unconditionally and immediately to their respective countries of origin. The Conclave reiterated on the same consequences if the groups prove to be non committal. The leaders have planned to meet within one month to evaluate progress on the implementation of their work.