A Kirinyaga UDA aspirant is crying foul over claims she was denied victory in last week's party nominations. Mutithi ward aspirant Mary Wawira Mugo said she won in the primaries, but her victory was fraudulently stolen in favour of her opponent Jenaro Njamumo. Speaking in Kagio on Saturday, she accused the county’s party secretary Mohammed Muchiri of orchestrating her downfall by rigging her out and awarding Njamumo undeserving votes. Wawira said she had garnered a total of 905 votes against Njamumo's 902 votes. However, things took a different turn while they were transported to the constituency tallying centre. At the tallying centre, Wawira said the vote count changed and her rival was leading with a total of 921 votes while hers was 915 votes. She took issue with one polling station where her agent was denied permission to take photos of an empty MCA ballot box and a stuffed Woman Representative ballot box, which were transported to the Mwea tallying centre. She said upon reaching the tallying centre, the empty MCA box was stuffed with ballot papers while the Woman Representative’s was emptied. “By 12 midnight when the initial results were read out by the returning officer I was the winner,” she said. Wachira said the final vote counts were read out from a notebook and not a legally mandated nomination form. “Despite raising our concerns, they told us to our face that they would award our opponent the provisional certificate whether we liked it or not  and that's exactly what they did,” she said. Moving forward, she said she will launch her complaints with the party’s dispute resolution division. However, she said should justice not be served in her favour, she will face her opponent in the August 9 polls as an independent candidate. Mugo also said, despite putting up a spirited effort to market her agenda, some party quarters have been frustrating her effort and discriminating her because of her gender. “I have talked to the people of Mutithi and they have overwhelmingly shown support towards me because I have likeable and doable visions," she said. The Star reached out to the  party secretary who denied the allegations. Muchiri said he was not involved in the manipulation of results, adding that he was mandated with catering for logistics for the entire nominations process. He also said the complainants' agents signed all forms that were availed and which went ahead in approving the credibility of the elections. The UDA secretary further said the winner in the ward polled 921 votes against Mugo’s 915 votes. “If they were discontented with the results why did her agents sign?" he said. Mugo's complaints come two days after Nominated MCA Caroline Muriithi caused a scene at the Gichugu tallying centre after reports emerged that she was  in the process of being rigged. Muriithi was eventually awarded the party ticket for the Karumandi MCA seat after being declared the winner.(edited by Amol Awuor)