ODM members in Kisumu and Migori counties will elect leaders of their choice for specific seats during nominations on Monday and Tuesday respectively. In a communique dated April 15, 2020 by the National Elections Board  chaired by Catherine Mumma urged all aspirants and party members in Migori and Kisumu to prepare to participate and keep peace before, during and after the primaries. In Migori, nominations will be conducted for county women representative, Suna West MP and all members of county assemblies. “Further to the communication previously issued on the ODM party primaries the election board wishes to notify party members and aspirants on the scheduled nominations on Monday and Tuesday,” Mumma said. Suna West MP Peter Masara will defend his seat. Masara will face former Suna West MP Obiero Ndiege for the ODM party ticket. In Migori county, there are eight constituencies namely Nyatike, Suna West, Suna East, Kuria East, Kuria West, Uriri, Awendo and Rongo. It is still unclear whether Nyatike MP Tom Odege, Suna East Junet Mohammed, Uriri Mark Nyamita, Awendo Walter Owino and Rongo Paul Abuor will be subjected to nominations or given direct tickets. Kuria East MP Peter Kitayama and his Kuria West counterpart Mathias Robi who were elected in the Jubilee party seek to defend their seat on a UDA ticket. Out of the eight constituencies, ODM will only conduct nominations in Suna West. The party has not issued a directive regarding senate position, suggesting a possible issuance of a direct ticket. Migori women representative aspirants Zilpa Audline, Josephine Sirega and Fatuma Mohammed will battle for ODM ticket in their quest to replace incumbent Pamela Odhiambo. Odhiambo eyes to replace Migori Governor Okoth Obado who is serving his second term. Odhiambo, Senator Ochilo Ayacko, Seth Odongo and Philip Mwabe eyes to fly ODM ticket even though it appears nominations will not be conducted for governor aspirants. In Kisumu, nominations will be conducted in Kisumu Central, Kisumu East, Muhoroni and Nyakach as well as senate and women representative seat. The voters will also have the opportunity to elect senate candidates of their choice as well as all the 35 members of county assemblies in Kisumu. For Kisumu senate seat, Senior counsel Tom Ojienda will battle for ODM ticket with former Muhoroni MP Ayiecho Olweny and nominated senator Rose Nyamunga. Muhoroni MP James Onyango Koyoo will face former majority leader Samuel Ong’ow, businessman Hezron McObewa, Omulo Okowa and university don Joseph Okal for the party ticket. Koyoo, who is serving a second term, is widely seen the favourite amongst the majority of the constituents. He exuded confidence that he will clinch the ticket in a free, fair and credible nomination exercise to retain the seat. In Kisumu Central, the incumbent MP Fred Ouda will face businessman Joshua Oron and Elijah Oburu for ODM ticket. Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor will battle to fly the party ticket with Eng Vincent Kodera, Jonathan Opande, former MP Ochieng Daima, Collins Apuoyo, captain Tom Osimbo and, Wilson Ochola Sam Osamba. In Kisumu East constituency, former sugar board director Nicholas Oricho, senior counsel James Mwamu, university don Charles Odhong and former Kisumu county public service board chairman Nashon Oguya seek to fly ODM ticket. The incumbent MP Shakeel Shabir will defend his seat on an independent ticket. In 2017, he defeated Oricho on an ODM ticket. In Nyando, Seme and Kisumu West constituencies, it remains unclear whether the party will give direct tickets to incumbent MPs. Nyando MP Jared Okelo and his Seme counterpart James Nyikal were alleged to have been awarded direct tickets to defend their seats. Kisumu Women Representative Rosa Buyu, who eyes to unseat Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch, was also reported to have been issued with a direct ticket. Olago, who seeks to defend his seat on DAP-Kenya ticket defeated Buyu in 2013 with ODM ticket, after he defected to Ford-Kenya following shambolic nominations. With barely three days to the nominations exercise, aspirants have intensified vote hunting to woo voters to back their bid.