A special school in Kabarnet town, Baringo county, is facing acute water crisis besides operating in dilapidated structures. The school for the deaf and blind was established in 1995 under the Kanu regime by former President Daniel Moi. On Tuesday, school principal Salina Binot said the school has not received any government or donor funding for renovation for a long time. She said they have always been relying on partners and well-wishers. “Majority of the parents always forget their children with disabilities once they drop them here” she said. When the Star visited the facility on Tuesday, the young children with special needs were seated on a worn out floor and Binoti said they lacked funds to renovate the classrooms and dormitories. However,  Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie accompanied with his German friends visited the school and donated two heifers and a 5000-litre plastic tank on Sunday. “We can now harvest water to help in cleaning and the children will get nutrition through the cows' milk, we sincerely thank you, our friends,” Binot said. The principal further said the MP with his friends have been a blessing to the school saying he earlier donated six dairy goats, a washing machine and some money to purchase foodstuff. Furthermore, Kandie pledged to allocate some National Government Constituency Development Funds to renovate the school's dilapidated classrooms and dormitories. “A lot needs to be done in the school to give it a magnificent look, so it requires heavy funding because I personally believe the facility belongs to all of us,” the legislator said. A borehole that was sunk in the school back in 1990s has broken and stalled, it requires repairs to be functional again. The German friends led by Claus Chwenk promised to rehabilitate the water project and install high power solar pumps to supply the school with warm water. “In Germany such special school receives a lot of funding from government, I don’t really understand they are neglected here,” Chwenk said. Earlier, the school employees had gone for several years without salaries before Kandie intervened “I am happy the staff are now getting their wages on time” Chwenk said. He further calls upon the Ministry of Education to consider allocating funds to renovate and facilitate the special school. (Edited by Tabnacha O)