It is official that George Jalan'go Midiwo will fly the Gem ODM flag. Dr Midiwo, who is the elder brother of the late former MP Jakoyo Midiwo officially, announced on Friday that the party has cleared and issued him with the nomination certificate. The party handed Midiwo the ticket a day before a determination of a petition lodged before the political parties tribunal by Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo is made. The tribunal is expected to deliver its verdict on Saturday. The MP moved to the tribunal to contest the move by ODM's NEB to give the ticket to his opponent. " I will not allow the NEB and its cartels to overturn the popular will of the people. Do not take me round in political circus," Odhiambo said after it became apparent that his win had been annulled. He said he was not going to take the outcome lying down. He was declared the winner of the party primaries which were held on April 13. The results announced at Siaya Institute showed the MP was ahead of Midiwo after scoring 7,405 against his 6,384 votes. Midiwo immediately appealed the verdict before the party's tribunal but his appeal was rejected. He told the tribunal that the exercise was marred with violence and intimidation of voters. The chairman of the tribunal Fredrick Orego who read the verdict said the appellant failed to prove that the nominations were not conducted within the law and in conformity to the rules of the ODM primaries. Midiwo, according to the tribunal, also failed to demonstrate that there was widespread violence and irregularities that would invalidate the outcome of the exercise. The tribunal upheld the nomination of Odhiambo and directed that the certificate be issued to him and the judgement be served to ODM National Election Board. On Friday, Midiwo was warmly received at Kisumu Airport by his supporters. His convoy later traversed the constituency where he addressed impromptu rallies at Akala, Wagai, Kambare, Ramula and Yala towns before being received at his father's home in Mabinju village. Addressing his supporters, Midiwo appealed to his opponent to bury the hatchet for the sake of the development of the constituency. " I want to ask my supporters and those of my rivals to agree to work as a team. We need to rally our people behind the ODM party," he said. Among the MCA candidates who got the party's ticket and agreed to work with Midiwo included Nick Wanga ( South Gem) and William Kinyanyi ( Yala township ward) and nominated MCA Linda Juma.