UDA party nominations have kicked off across various polling stations in Kirinyaga county as UDA members turned up to elect their preferred party candidates. Despite a heavy night downpour in many parts of the county, an impressive turnout was registered in various polling stations. Many voters persevered the chilly morning weather and showed up at their respective centres as early as 7 am. Among the seats that are up for grabs in the county are various ward rep seats, county woman representatives and Gichugu MP's seats. In Gichugu, area MP Gichimu Githinji cast his vote at Rukenya primary school during the mid-morning hours. He is set to face his two opponents Njage Makanga and Clement Munyua who have equally expressed interest in the ticket. Speaking shortly after casting his vote, the legislator expressed optimism about clinching the ticket and subsequently getting re-elected in the August polls. He thanked the voters for their willingness in showing interest in participating in the primaries. However, he called on the party to add more time to the exercise in order to allow as many voters to participate in the exercise. "Being a working day, we expect voters to show up at their own convenience. We, therefore, plead for more time to be added so as not to lock out anyone willing to participate in the elections. His opponent Njagi Makanga cast his vote in Mucagara primary school in Gichugu in the afternoon hours. He however had to wait for close to half an hour after his name went missing from the members' register. The matter according to Makanga was later resolved and was granted permission to cast his vote. Makanga decried that many other voters' names were missing from the list thus denying them the opportunity to vote. "I have cast my vote in this very polling centre over the last three elections. It is mysterious how my name was missed from the register yet I'm a candidate." "The matter has been resolved and I have been able to vote," he said. In Kaitheri polling station in Kirinyaga central constituency, security was beefed up as members streamed into the polling centre. Earlier in the day, slight misunderstandings were witnessed as some members forcefully halted the exercise over some unresolved party disputes. However, the centre's presiding officer who sought anonymity, said all is running smoothly and no violence has been witnessed. In the woman representative seat, former county assembly speaker Ann Wangechi Githinji will be battling it out with private detective Jane Mugo and lawyer Njeri Maina.