Three of Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis's staff who sought UDA tickets suffered humiliating defeats. Former Governor Benjamin Cheboi won the election. scooping 45,000 votes against Eldama-Ravine MP) Moses Lessonet who got 33,000. Kiptis himself came third with 25,000 votes. “Every one of us tried his own luck in politics and personally I accept the results although I know the exercise were marred with numerous irregularities” Kipti’s administration  ecretary Francis Komen said on Wednesday. Komen, popularly known as ‘Lakwa’iit’, had contest for the Baringo North parliamentary ticket and trailed with 584 votes. However Joseph Makilap secured the UDA  ticket with 12,700 votes followed by Sammy Chelang’a ‘Penge’ with 7,206 votes and Jonathan Nyitore with 5,407 votes. Similarly the outgoing governor's chief of staff Hillary Songoyo ran for Mogotio parliamentary seat and got 336 votes while Dr Joel Koima, the former Executive for Livestock ran for the same seat and won 248 votes. Committee Livestock contested for the same seat managed finger-count 248 votes. Social media blamed it on the failed administration of Governor Kiptis. “Our people in Baringo are busy wasting a lot of bundles on social media instead of making use of it to do constructive and beneficial activities” Komen said. "Even though some of us tried leadership and failed, we still belong to Baringo and by the end of the day the county requires every one of us to develop,” he said. Kiptis rejected claims that he did not convince anybody to join politics. “Voting and electing leaders is a personal democratic right,” he said. Songoyo, on the other hand, disowned Governor Kiptis, saying he failed his own government. "We tried to assist him but now his failure is our own” he said. He urged the people of Baringo to stop linking a failed government to the staff, “instead all the failure stops at the governor himself,” he said. He said they wee just working in their assigned positions s as learned professionals, nothing else. Songoyo further criticised Kiptis, saying he could not steer, listen, advise and give direction to better his administration so he is squarely to blame, he said. However the repeat of the Mogotio constituency UDA primary is due on Thursday after the candidate who emerged second, Reuben Kiborek, contested the results. Incumbent MP Dr Daniel Tuitoek won the previous election last Thursday after scooping 9,662 votes with his opponent, Kiborek getting 9,469. All the contestants will be on the ballot, the party electoral committee said. Those who lost protested, saying they were notified  in time so they could campaign. “We thought only the two top candidates will face off, but what all know is there will be a protest vote” Songoyo said. (Edited by V. Graham)