A suspected robber was yesterday at dawn killed and set ablaze by angry residents at Kambaa shopping centre in Lari subcounty, Kiambu. It was reported that the  suspect was with four other gangsters who were later arrested by police. Officers  recovered crude weapons from them. Area subcounty police commander Samuel Furaha said the thugs were caught while digging a hole through the wall of a shop. “The trader raised alarm and attracted residents who came out in large numbers,” he said. Furaha said the four  members of the gang fled leaving one of them who was confronted by members of public. The angry mob descended on the suspect who was armed with a panga. The police boss said the residents beat the thief as they interrogated him to reveal the gang members.In that process  they set him ablaze . Furaha said the suspected who hailed from Maai Mahiu in Naivasha, revealed that the gang members were from Kambaa village. When the police arrived, the suspect had already succumbed. They then acted on the information the residents had. Furaha said they proceeded to  arrest the alleged four  gangsters and recovered crude weapons which they suspect were used to breakdown shops in the area. “The suspect was burnt beyond recognition. We have also apprehended other suspects and recovered crude weapons from the thugs,"the police commander said. "They are at Lari police station where investigations are ongoing.The body of the deceased was taken to Uphome Funeral Home.” A resident Joseph Karegwa thanked members of the public for their quick response since the thugs did not manage to steal anything. “We heard screams of people and rushed to find a suspect being set ablaze. People responded fast,” he said. A trader Faith Njambi said the trend of breaking into shops used to happens years ago. She added that the gang was trying to revert to it but they were stopped in their tracks. “We shall set ablaze another one who will come and try to break a shop," she warned. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)