Kilgoris MP Gideon Konchellah’s bid  for Narok Senate seat received a boost after endorsement by the members of the Kipsigis community. Elders from Angata Barrikoi ward in Transmara West subcounty, clergy, youth and women leaders met at the MP’s home in Olalui on Monday, gave Konchellah the green light to vie for the seat. Konchellah seeks to unseat the incumbent Senator Ledama ole Kina. Led by MCA Gabriel Mibei, they said they have decided to back the MP because he has the leadership qualities required and a down-to- earth personality. “We are looking for a credible person who is passionate, visionary and seeks to unite the people of Narok . We are determined to go all the way to get the right leader,” Mibei said. Mibei described Konchellah as the only leader who can articulate issues affecting people due to his immense experience. “He has served in Kibaki's cabinet and has been Kilgoris MP for two decade. We require leaders who have been tried and tested like Konchellah to steer our county forward,” he said. The meeting was also attended by former Narok  Agriculture county executive member Richard Birir. Responding to the endorsement, Konchellah said he is ready for the challenges and promised to deliver progress. Konchellah, who seeking the seat on a Jubilee party ticket said he will strive to unite the communities in the county. He said his decision to vie for the Senate seat was prompted by his desire to ensure prudent use of public resources and prevent embezzlement of public funds. The MP told off Ledama and Governor Samuel Tunai saying they have failed in their leadership. He told residents to reject Tunai, who are seeking the senate seat saying his agenda is to ‘sanitise’ the mess in his tenure by avoiding audit queries. The legislator said it is sad that Narok has leap backward in terms of development yet they have enough natural resources. “Why should people suffer when they have wealth at their doorsteps and the county is endowed with numerous resources?" he asked. “This county needs strong and visionary leaders who listen to people. We will work towards improving the lives." Konchellah advised the Kipsigis community to support Azimio la Umoja. Konchellah also said land issues have been emotive andneeds to be urgently addressed to get a lasting solution. “The perennial land issues are sponsored by a few individuals whose aim is to create confusion so that they can purchase land for themselves and their allies, this is totally unacceptable,” Konchellah said. “Ignore leaders who are instilling fears in the people. Narok is a cosmopolitan county that incorporates all tribes and races and our leadership will be inclusive to ensure free interaction, peace and unity.” (Edited by Tabnacha O)