A storm erupted in the National Assembly on Thursday following allegations of land grabbing against Deputy President William Ruto. Drama ensued after Wajir Woman MP Fatuma Gedi walked in with a suitcase of evidence, to demonstrate assertions that Ruto was a land grabber. Gedi, during a debate on a petition over land issues at the Coast, linked Ruto to alleged land grabbing some of which she said had been ruled by courts in favour of the victims. She was thus asked by Speaker Justin Muturi to table the evidence of her claims, which she attempted before the chaotic sittings were adjourned prematurely. “I have gathered enough material to substantiate my position that we are not safe in the hands of a presidential candidate who has used his influence to intimidate the weak,” she said. A heated exchange played out between her and the speaker as she sought to table the documents she had carried to the chamber. Muturi said the MP had to follow the ground rules for her documents to be admitted as records of the august House. “In considering admissibility, we have to check if the document relates to a matter for which it has been tabled, signed by authorised persons in case of government, has emblem or logo of the institution from which it is generated,” he said. Muturi said other checks were whether the document indicates the author and person to whom is addressed, discloses origin or source, certification for non-original copies and legit if electronically sourced. The afternoon sitting was adjourned after Embakasi East MP Babu Owino declined an order to vacate the chamber. It remains unclear what the ODM lawmaker said that invited the directive. Owino was ringfenced by his colleagues from the Azimio leaning arm of the assembly. The events were preceded by questions about the speakers’ impartiality in deciding on matters touching on the DP, being his newfound ally in the succession politics. There are also concerns the speaker has lost grip of the assembly and is being controlled by leaders allied with Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance party. MPs allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga said they were uncomfortable with the speaker presiding over the sittings of the House going forward. Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo said since the speaker had found it fit to take sides with Ruto, it makes it difficult for him to conclude the matter presented by Gedi. He sought guidance if the situation required that Muturi declared his interest and recuse himself from the deliberations as he cannot be a judge in his cause. “The provision of Article 90 on conflict of interest applies. We are all required to declare a conflict of interest including personal relationships,” Amolo said. Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni, who is also Jubilee secretary general, said the speaker should voluntarily step aside to restore the confidence of members. “The Speaker needs to do a soul searching as to whether he has the capacity and moral standing to guide us for the remaining months,” he said. Minority leader Junet Mohamed said they had never doubted the speaker’s impartiality until after he signed a deal with Ruto to join Kenya Kwanza. He said the issue is weighty on the minority side and as much as speakers are sponsored by parties, a new development had happened on Muturi’s part. “The records are available he is the leader of Democratic Party which is not Jubilee that sponsored him,” Junet said. “We started feeling we might not get fair treatment in the House. If now you are the Democratic party leader, how are you going to balance those interests?” The Azimio side’s worry is that the issues raised by Fatuma could lead to the impeachment of the Deputy President. “Are we safe that we can continue conducting our business? The House must be impartial. I don’t know whether the rule of impartiality and natural justice for fairness will be accorded,” Junet said. Muturi defended himself from the claims, saying he would not resign despite the push by the pro-handshake forces. “Impartiality is not determined by party but your ability to demonstrate it. The Speaker before you is unwilling to resign. If you have any issues, take the route of Article 106 of the Constitution,” he said. The law provides that any member who is dissatisfied with his position could proceed to table a motion of no confidence against him. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said the speaker had not committed any crime within the reading of Article 106 on Speakers and Deputy Speakers. “His removal is well stipulated in 106 (2) of the Constitution,” he said. Duale said other jurisdictions like the United States have government leaders chairing assembly business and they remain impartial. “The procedure for removal of a speaker is known to every member. Even in other jurisdiction like the US, the speaker of the Senate is always the Vice President,” he said. Duale said when Vice President Khamala Harris sits there, she makes neutral determinations. “We will also tell them what we know about the huge chunks of land that the handshake brothers have grabbed,” the MP said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris