Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League defending champions Butali Warriors face Strathmore Gladiators on Sunday at City Park Stadium as the league resumes after the Easter break. Gladiators are in imperious form after winning their three opening matches to sit at the summit of the log. Gladiators have nine points, two more than third-placed Butali who have seven points after identical 3-0 wins against both Greensharks and Parkroad Badgers. The Sugar millers threw away a 2-0 lead to draw 2-2 with eternal rivals Kenya Police. Meshack Senge-coached Gladiators are underdogs considering the new-look students' team is inexperienced. Butali, captained by Constant Wakhura, boasts of a quality assembled squad and a win for them will take them top of the table since second-place Police are not in action. Mombasa Sports Club hope to capitalise on home advantage to bounce back to winning ways when they host Sailors and Parkroad Saturday and Sunday respectively in Mombasa. Newbies MSC got a reality check in regards to their top-flight status after losing to Gladiators 4-3 and Police 3-0 in Nairobi a fortnight ago, to mark a torrid start to life in the top tier. Returning to the Premier League this season, Parkroad are yet to hit the ground running following three successive losses. Worryingly, their blunt attack has managed to score just once in three matches while their defence is shaky. Wazalendo will hope to pick up from where they left as they settle scores with Greensharks. The South B-based side silenced Western Jaguars 1-0 in their last encounter and the 2019 season runners-up are finally showing why they are the dark horses in the title race. Greensharks have faded after beating Parkroad 3-1 in the season opener. Captained by Victor Osiche, Sharks look a pale shadow of their former selves after resounding defeats to both Strathmore and surprisingly Sailors too. In the women's category, on-fire Strathmore Scorpions have a date with Amira Sailors. Scorpions, who sent a statement by beating record champions Blazers 2-0, are yet to concede a goal in three matches. They also managed 3-0 over Wolverines and 1-0 against Wolverines to lead the table with nine points. Sailors have mastered two goalless draws and are yet to score despite creating many chances. "We are taking one game at a time but obviously, we want to fight for the title," said Scorpions experienced forward Gilly Okumu who boasts of two goals and as many assists.