Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has told ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to stop attacking President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration and instead tell Kenyans what he will do differently to change their lives. Both Wa Iria and Mudavadi have declared interest in succeeding Uhuru in August. Mudavadi who joined forces with Deputy President William Ruto last week has since launched a scathing attack on the President, saying his administration has disappointed Kenyans. Mudavadi said the cost of living has skyrocketed under Uhuru's watch and that projects like big roads have only resulted in huge debts, piling pressure on taxpayers. But Wa Iria on Thursday hit back at Mudavadi asking the ANC party leader to concentrate on his presidential run without soiling Uhuru’s name. He said the President was not campaigning for any elective seat. Wa Iria will run on his Usawa Kwa Wote party ticket. He said Musalia should use his political forums to sell his vision for Kenyans. “I personally do not care about UDA and ANC’s coalition. That is politics and is allowed but let them keep off Uhuru in their politics,” he said. "Whether or not he has performed, we will not allow you to mudsling him and then come to our region and expect us to clap for you. He is still the leader of our community,” Wa Iria added. The governor said the President sits back and watches as people attack him because he is good-hearted but that he has many people behind him. Wa Iria spoke when he met small-scale traders at Mumbi stadium in Murang’a town. He said he will be on the ballot and insisted that he is the 'third horse' in the presidential race as he has the Mt Kenya region behind him. “If we form a coalition for the Mt Kenya region, nobody would be able to defeat it. A coalition of close to 10 million votes would be like a tornado, leave alone the earthquakes they have been talking about,” Wa Iria said. He appealed to the region to support him, pledging to replicate some of the successful programmes that his administration has implemented in Murang'a county. He cited the avocado programme that has seen thousands of homes receive free Hass variety seedlings and farmers consolidated into groups that have entered into contractual agreements with buyers, earning up to Sh40 per piece. Before the programme started in 2014, farmers would sell their fruits to brokers for as low as Sh2 per piece. The county is the largest avocado producer in the country, accounting for about 60 per cent of all fruits produced locally. “Each tree produces about 5,000 fruits every year which is able to sustain a family and save it from poverty,” he said. Wa Iria also cited the free maize seeds issuance programme that has saved poor families from hunger and stopped their dependence on relief food. The county administration has since 2017 been issuing free seedlings each season to over 250,000 families to empower them and boost food security. The seeds are produced by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute and certified by the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services (Kephis). The programme has increased the county’s maize production from 250,000 bags to at least 850,000 bags annually and rakes in over Sh2 billion with each bag costing about Sh2,500. “These programmes will be replicated in other counties to eradicate hunger once I am elected President,” the governor said. Edited by A.N