Nairobi City Stars chief executive officer Patrick Korir has heaped praise on Gambian striker Ebrima Sanneh, who left the Kenya Premier League club earlier in the week. City Stars announced Wednesday they had mutually agreed to part ways with the player after dedicated service spanning close to a decade. Korir described Sanneh as an excellent professional, who contributed immensely to the club since his arrival from Gambian side Real de Banjul in July 2014. “We will forever recall his 11 goals in his first full season in 2015, including a goal in the season-ender against Sony that saved the club from relegation,” said Korir. “Simba wa Nairobi would like to thank Sanneh for his extraordinary goal scoring prowess. He led us to Premier League promotion in 2020. He scored 32 goals across two seasons. Sanneh will forever remain firmly etched in the history of Nairobi City Stars,” he added. He wished Sanneh well in his future endeavours, adding they will seek to replace him and strengthen the team during the current transfer window. With a total of 32 goals in all competitions, Sanneh leaves City Stars as the third-best scorer in the club's history, behind Justus Basweti and Francis Thairu. At the close of the 2015 season, Sanneh was nominated for two awards, namely, the New Young Player where he emerged second best, and Player of the Year. He, thereafter, decamped to Ushuru and later to Kariobangi Sharks before returning to City Stars in April 2019 on a short-term contract . He netted seven crucial goals to help the team survive relegation from the National Super League (NSL) in the 2019/20 season. He earned a one-year contract to feature in 2019/20 NSL season where he scored eight goals to guide City Stars to top-flight promotion. His performance earned him a two-year deal across the 2020/21 and 2021/22 seasons. Sanneh scored four times in a Cup game against Transfoc in June 2015 to become the only City Stars player to slam in a quartet of goals in a single game. Coupled with two other goals in a Cup game against Mutomo Tigers in February 2021, Sanneh stands out as City Stars’ top scorer in the Domestic Cup with six goals. In 2015, Sanneh set an unmatched record of scoring in four straight Premier League games against Tusker, Western Stima, Thika United (brace), and Bandari in rounds 24 to 27.