The body of a toddler who plunged into a borehole in Mtopanga, Nyali subcounty,  11 days ago was finally retrieved on Wednesday. “It was finally spotted in the afternoon and it took up to around 9pm to finally retrieve it,” Bernard Opondo said. He had hosted the deceased Fadhili Rama, his elder sister Khadija Rama and their mother Lilian Kimote for Christmas when the tragedy happened. Fadhili Rama, barely two-years-old, was playing outside Opondo’s house when he plunged into the borehole which had only been covered by a piece of an old plastic carpet. Worn out by the devastating 11-day wait for the retrieval of her last born’s body, Kimote, 34, on Thursday told the Star she only wants to bury her child. “It has taken longer than it should have. My child has been alone and in a dark place. I could almost hear his voice calling out for me for help,”  Kimote said. Opondo said miraculously, the body had not decomposed as much as they had thought it would. “It seems when it rained as it has been, the cold and the sand where the body was acted like a freezer,” Opondo said. County Transport executive Taufiq Balala said the body was stuck on a coral on the wall of the hole. “We had to dig around it to get it in one piece. We were afraid of even touching it for fear of it disintegrating,” Balala, who also had to go into the hole, said. The borehole, whose diameter was slightly above the size of an electric pole, was being drilled by a neighbour, who wanted to have constant water supply for his tenants. Fadhili had a slender body and that is why he easily fell into the borehole. “Miraculously, the body had stuck on a coral and was held in one piece. We can’t explain it. That is why the hole had to be drilled on the side,” Opondo added. Balala said the body was found more than 40 feet underground. The county executive said he insisted on going down the hole to get the feel and experience that the rescuers go through every day. “Most of the time, we sit in our office and complain about these rescuers being slow or doing shoddy jobs but we don’t know what they go through,” Balala said. He said, while down in the hole, he started experiencing breathlessness and was sweating profusely as it was hot. Fadhili’s body was taken to the Coast Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue. A post-mortem will be conducted on Friday, according to the police. “We wanted to bury it today but the police insisted a postmortem must be done,” Opondo said. Kimote said the body will most likely be buried in Mtwapa on Friday after the post-mortem. (edited by Amol Awuor)