ODM leader Raila Odinga says he is ready to lead the country through what he termed as the third liberation and urged youths to register as voters to actualise the revolution. Speaking at Ongata Rongai town on Monday, the opposition chief said the economic revolution will be the third and last liberation and that he was ready to lead the army (voters). “I want you to be ready to be Baba’s soldiers. To be my soldier, you must have a gun and a bullet. Your ID is the gun and your voting card is the bullet,” he said. “The IEBC will start giving voting cards again, I want to tell my soldiers to take the bullet so that when baba as commander gives orders, we all fire,” he added. The AU special envoy on Infrastructure was accompanied by Kajiado Governor Joseph Ole Lenku among other leaders in the region. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is set to roll out the second enhanced voter registration ahead of the high-stakes August 9 General Elections. The registration will start next Monday until February 6. The commission targets to register at least 4.5 million new voters. Raila said he is the best person to lead the economic revolution to rescue millions of Kenyans who have been trapped in the economic rubbles for decades. He retreated his 10 point agenda, saying the plan will radically transform key sectors of the economy to improve the lives of Kenyans. “Baba is ready to lead you in this third revolution so that we fight poverty, sickness and ignorance. That is why at Kasarani, I declared 10 points to transform our economy,” he said. Raila reckoned that his administration will ensure free education for all – from kindergarten to the higher level. His government, he added, will introduce Babacare – a universal health care coverage – to ensure every Kenyan, irrespective of their financial or economic status, get access to medical care. A Raila government, the ODM boss said, will build industries to create ‘meaningful’ jobs for the youth – ‘not pushing wheelbarrows.’ “Will build industries to ensure value addition for our product ...That is why we have been promoting buy Kenya, build Kenya. Raila told off Deputy President William Ruto and those who have been criticising his pledge to roll out a social welfare fund for poor households. Ruto is Raila’s main challenger for the presidential seat in the upcoming polls. The ODM leader held that every poor household will get Sh6, 000 every month from the government. “Some are saying that Baba is lying to us. That there is no money. I have been a Prime Minister of this country and I know where the money is,” he held. Raila reiterated his unity call, saying his Azimio La Umoja movement will unite the country. “We are preaching Azimio la Umoja to unite all Kenyans. Whether you are a Kikuyu, Maasai, Kamba, Luo, Turkana, Kalenjin or Mijikenda we are all Kenyans,” he said.