A 25–year–old man has killed his 70-year-0ld father over domestic squabbles in Masinga, Machakos. The suspect has however gone into hiding after the Saturday incident. Masinga subcounty police commander Rashid Mohammed said the exact reason for the crime was not known but believed it was domestic. Speaking to the Star on Sunday, Mohammed said the two might have disagreed on a family land issue. The deceased’s body was moved to Mbaku funeral home in Matuu town awaiting a postmortem. Mohammed said they were yet to arrest the suspect who immediately went into hiding after committing the crime. “The suspect is still at large, we have launched a manhunt and we will soon bring him to book. We have however recovered the weapons used,” Mohammed said. “The weapons are a knife and a machete.” Some independent sources said the suspect who resurfaced three months ago had sold his father’s cow without consent leading to the quarrel between the two, that resulted in the man’s death. Murder and suicide incidences have been on the rise in Machakos. On December 28, a 38–year–old man and his father were arrested in connection with their kin’s death in Yatta, Machakos. Yatta subcounty Criminal Investigations Officer ASP Bernard Rono said the two were arrested in connection with the death of the man’s brother. The man allegedly slit his younger brother’s throat. On December 7, a man allegedly killed his wife before committing suicide in Mitaboni. Mwango Nzioka, 30, a boda boda operator, was suspected to have strangled Mercy Gichuhi, 25, a local bar attendant to death under unclear circumstances. Nzioka’s father Peter Kaloki said he realised that both his son and Gichuhi were dead at around 1 pm. Their bodies lay at his son’s two-roomed house in Nzoweni village until 6.20 pm when police arrived to process the scene. Nzioka’s body was hanging from the rafter while the woman’s body lay on the bed with a cloth around the neck. Police interrogated the man’s father and a few residents before they picked the bodies. Machakos county commissioner John Ondego warned the residents against killing others alongside committing suicides. He appealed to those distressed to seek available solutions from close relatives, friends and authorities when things get out of control. “Problems and differences always arise. Let’s look for guidance on how to solve the problems from local provincial administration, clergy, professional counsellors or elders,” he said. Ondego said nobody had a right to kill another person. Edited by Kiilu Damaris