The One Kenya Alliance has insisted that it is still united and strong despite rumours of cracks within its principals barely seven months to the 2022 General Elections. Speaking to the media on Wednesday, former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo who spoke on behalf of the Alliance, said the Oka principals will be going for a retreat to choose their flagbearer. During the retreat, Oka will go through the recommendations presented by the joint technical committee constituted by alliance members. “In this regard, the OKA Principals will retreat from the 18 February 2022 to consider recommendations from the technical team, which is currently working on a comprehensive report,” Jirongo said. He said the flagbearer will carry the aspirations of the millions of Kenyans that have entrusted their destiny to the alliance. ANC leader and his Ford-K counterpart denied having met Deputy President William Ruto in the run-up to the polls slated for August. They insisted that they had not received any formal or informal invitation from Deputy President William Ruto's United Democratic Alliance. "I have been in the media of late mostly for what I have not said, then what I have said. I am free to associate with anyone. But when I meet anybody, I will make it public, it will not be secret," Mudavadi said. Mudavadi downplayed claims that Oka is out to create a runoff in this year's General Elections. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka said that he had also not talked to ODM leader Raila Odinga since December 25, 2021, and their talks were based on the festivities. “The last time I spoke with Raila at length was last year when he attended Wiper's NDC,” Kalonzo said. "One Kenya knows what it is doing, knows what is good for it and knows what is in law. We will not be cajoled into sprinting when we are in a marathon," Wetangula added. The media briefing was seen as a crisis management plan after details emerged that cracks were widening over plans to work with either ODM boss Raila Odinga or Deputy President William Ruto. There have been reports of a possible political deal between Musalia and Ruto. However, Musalia has insisted he will go all the way to the ballot. Cotu Secretary general Francis Atwoli has been reported claiming that Oka will dissolve before the end of January 2022. Atwoli stated the 2022 presidential race is a two-horse race between Ruto and Raila. "We've agreed 2022 is a race between William Ruto and Raila Odinga. Let no one lie to Mudavadi. He won't make it," Atwoli said. Edited by D Tarus