A showdown is looming in the National Assembly following renewed efforts by the House leadership to return business scuttled by Tangatanga-allied lawmakers last Tuesday. This is in the face of preconditions set by the MPs leaning towards Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party before allowing business to proceed. The UDA-leaning lawmakers have rolled out a strategy to frustrate government business in the House citing non-prioritisation of issues affecting Kenyans. Last Tuesday, the Ruto-leaning MPs voted to reject the reconstitution of the House Business Committee which queues business to be transacted in the August House. Majority Leader Amos Kimunya returned the same motion amid efforts to mobilise sufficient numbers to ensure the names are approved. MPs Joyce Emanikor (Turkana Woman Rep), Shadrack John Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Kawira Mwangaza (Meru Woman Rep), Mohamed Abdikhaim Osman (Fafi), Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Godfrey Osotsi (Nominated ) have been proposed as members of the committee. Others with express seats in the committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi are Kimunya, Minority Leader John Mbadi, Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed. The Star established that UDA-leaning MPs intend to approve the names, but only on grounds the leadership makes a public declaration to heed their preconditions. A senior lawmaker who asked not to be named said their overall plan as UDA is to keep the leadership on its feet “as they will have to ensure there are numbers in the House.” “Our intention is to keep them busy so that they have to mobilise over 100 members to the House for every sitting as our moves remain unpredictable,” the lawmaker said. The team, multiple sources indicate, also seeks to employ as much delay tactics as they can to slow down legislation. Nominated MP David Sankok on Monday let the cat out of the bag on the areas the UDA side intends to begin from in their legislative onslaught. The thinking in the party is that they have sufficient numbers to defeat the President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga side. As part of the conditions set by UDA,  the leadership must make amendments to the Budget Policy Statement 2022 and the Finance Bill, 2022. The Bill is yet to be drafted. “It is either they accept that taxes of essential commodities, fuel, and solar must be reduced in the finance bill. If they don’t accept, we will take an early leave for people to go and campaign,” Sankok said. In the budget policy statement, UDA wants amendments queued among them appropriation of money for fertiliser subsidy. “Those are our irreducible minimums. If they don’t heed, we will force an early adjournment. The government can seek money elsewhere,” the Nominated MP said. As part of the procedure, members have to rescind the motion that rejected the reconstitution of the House Business Committee. “We will rescind our decision individually on condition that after the committee is constituted. These are the businesses that we will transact. It will be a gentleman’s agreement,” Sankok added. “Of course they can refuse but Kenyans will judge them…we will have told hustlers we care about them. They will know who to send home and who to allow back in Parliament.” But a section of the House leadership expressed confidence that they have sufficient numbers to counter the UDA side. Mbadi said they had mobilised all members to attend the sitting in order to restore normalcy. “We were caught off-guard last time. We have mobilised enough members to attend the sittings. We cannot allow people to continue playing politics with the lives of Kenyans,” the Suba South MP said.(edited by Amol Awuor)