@ppcheti Town criers were prominent during the pre-colonial era and their job was majorly to pass messages from the administrations to communities. With the advent of modernity, however, the town crier job fizzled out in most parts of Africa and was replaced by fast-past forms of commodification including phones, media and the internet. Lamu island however is home to one of the last town criers that still exist in Kenya. Bwana Shee,63, has been a town crier in the Unesco world heritage site and adjacent islands for over 15 years, a job he has done with zeal and passion. Born in 1959 at Langoni area in Lamu island, Shee describes crying like any other occupation that deserves recognition, respect and a stipend. Shee’s job involves making public announcements to the islanders by way of shouting through a small portable microphone along the streets. For Shee however, this wasn’t his dream job as he always wanted to become a famous broadcaster in one of the media houses. He was however unable to enrol into the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication, the only institution that was offering journalism courses by then due to his impoverished background. “My dream course inspired what I do now. Had there been a way, I would be a big name in the media industry,” Shee says. Shee was recruited as a prison warder in 1982, a position he held for 12 years before seeking early retirement to pursue a dream deferred. During the time, he served at the Nairobi West Prison, Kisumu Prison, Nyeri’s King’ong’o Maximum Prison, Shimo La Tewa Prison in Mombasa, Hindi GK Prison in Lamu and Garissa GK Prison in North Eastern Kenya. In 1994, aged 35, Shee sought early retirement from the job citing boredom as he didn’t find gratification in being a warder. “I just wasn’t cut out for that. I tried to do what I could for 12 years but eventually, I had to retire because I wanted to do something related to my media passion,” he says. Shortly after his retirement, Shee tried the boat transport business where he worked as a tout which gave him a temporary fleeting sense of gratification but he quit after 12 years. “I enjoyed it in part because it involved shouting to attract passengers to the boats I was assigned to. Sometimes I would mimic famous broadcasters like Badi Muhsin, to get a feel of it. I still knew I was misplaced,” he says. The crier says it is during this period that he discovered a communication gap in the town because many people didn’t pay attention to notice boards where public notices would be stuck. “Not many people read newspapers either. Just a handful owned and listened to the radio. Still, many people were not receiving all the needed information either from government, institutions, hospitals and the like,”  Shee says. He says during those days, most community members did not own TV sets too and the flow of information was hindered. It is this gap that informed his interest in the town crying job which he has now done since 2006 to date. The crier walks around with his tool of trade which is a small megaphone, he bought with part of his savings from the boat touting business. “I didn’t get to become a journalist like I always dreamt but I still got to make a mark in ensuring information reaches the masses in my small way. My heart is full as I earn a living and support my family,”  Shee says. Since he has made a name for himself in Lamu island and beyond, the town crier says it's not hard for him to land deals and make money as people are always seeking his service. Being the only crier in the region means he gets to enjoy the monopoly of doing something that people think is outdated. In a good month, the crier takes home Sh50,000, through the job, he has educated his children. The Covid-19 pandemic however almost brought his job to closure as he was unable to make any meaningful income when the pandemic hit the country. “The job offers really dropped and I struggled a lot but things are looking up now,” he says. The town crier’s major clientele includes the county health department, non-governmental organizations and business people. His business normally peaks around election time and this year, the town crier is looking forward to making a fortune as various political candidates seek to have their message reach the masses. “Mostly if they want huge gatherings am paid to go around villages and nudge people out of their homes to the rallies as a good fee,” he says. For a normal announcement, Shee charges between Sh1000 to Sh2000 depending on the size of the area to be covered. “Doing an announcement within the old town, I charge 1000. But if I have to go to areas outside the town, I charge Sh2000,” he says. During the electioneering period, however, the cost of his announcements doubles and Shee says he is looking forward to making some good cash with the approaching August election. “In the last general election, I would charge Sh2000 for normal announcements and would get close to 10 such announcements daily. I would go home with about Sh20,000 in a day. I hope this year will be better,” Shee says. The crier’s job is however not devoid of challenges and some assignments have compromised his security and life. He recalls an incident in the 2007 post-election violence period where his megaphone was smashed and his hand broken by rowdy youth as he announced about a politician they didn’t like. “They pulled me down and beat me up. Another election is coming and I beseech people to understand that mine is just a job and that I am not a politician neither do I parade my political inclinations during my job,” Shee says. Edited by Kiilu Damaris