Seventy two percent of land available for investment in Phase I of Konza Technopolis has been taken up by investors. This represents 106 out of 147 land parcels demarcated for uptake by investors in the first phase, which comprises of 1,703 acres of land including wildlife and nature parks. Development of horizontal infrastructure is set to be completed by the end of 2022. The completion of the works, which entail the construction of streetscapes and drainage works, paves way for the vertical construction works to be undertaken by the private sector. According to the Konza Technopolis Development Authority (KoTDA) chief executive John Tanui, the authority is now focusing to complete the horizontal infrastructure that entails servicing the land parcels with key amenities. “For the horizontal infrastructure, we expect within this year to move and reach over 95 per cent," Tanui said. The remaining scope of work includes the development of verticals among them a police command centre, fire station, welcome centre, safety shelter for screening vehicles and power distribution station as well as Konza furnished apartments. "In 2021, we recorded over 70 percent completion and our focus is to complete this as we accelerate investor’s uptake,” Tanui said during an investor’s tour of the facility on Monday. KoTDA expects the entire land parcels available to be taken up by June. It is in discussion with the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning to have more land demarcated for manufacturing owing to high demand. All the parcels which had been set aside for manufacturing have been taken up, Tanui said. Phase One of the project is designed as a mixed-use community, comprising of commercial, residential, public, and hospitality amenities. Upon completion, it is expected to attract 30,000 residents, 7,500 knowledge workers and 16,700 other workers. As part of its strategic priorities under the second strategic plan (2021-2025), KoTDA is actively engaging both local and international investors. Private sector players are also embracing the Konza National Data Centre, which is offering cloud computing services to both private and public organisations.