Deputy president William Ruto on Friday lashed out at ODM leader Raila Odinga for castigating his benevolence to groups by giving cash. "Why are the bothered with me giving Sh2 million; that is very little money which they have but are very mean ," said Ruto. He said Raila had multibillion-shilling companies but  couldn't help the less fortunate. Raila has on several occasions questioned Ruto's source of wealth as he gives millions of shillings in donations to different groups during campaigns. Meanwhile, Ruto urged Western Kenya residents to support his presidential bid. He spoke at Ekitale market in Kanduyi, Bungoma county. He said  he was committed to transforming the lives of ordinary Kenyans. Ruto said Kenya was ripe for a leader who is keen to ensuring equal opportunities for all its citizens irrespective of their social status. He promised to reduce the cost of agriculture production if elected president. Ruto said the current cost of production was very unfriendly to farmers. "We will ensure that we reduce the cost of farming goes down so that peasant farmers can enjoy the sweat of their farming," Ruto said. Ruto said the cost of living was skyrocketing each day in the country yet nobody cares for the peasant farmers. The deputy president said if elected, he will will reduce the cost of fertiliser from the current Sh5,000 to Sh2,000. Ruto said he will also ensure that every Kenyan has free NHIF cover. " We will ensure that health cover for everyone if elected ," he said. Ruto said if elected, he will pump Sh50 billion to small and micro business to ensure that the poor are uplifted. "In the spirit of the bottom up economy, we will ensure that we empower small business through pumping money through government," said Ruto. He said it was important that the country's economic model is changed to the bottom up economic model. The Deputy President had earlier addressed a delegation from  Shinyalu and Ikolomani constituencies in Kakamega County at his Sugoi home. "We must change the economic system so that we have one that recognises ordinary citizens,who are the majority in this country," said  Ruto. Present were MPs Dan Wanyama(Webuye West), John Waluke(Sirisia), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Didmus Barasa(Kimilili) and Mwambu Mabonga(Bumula). Former CS Rashid Echesa and former Kakamega Boni Khalwale were also present. Ruto said Kenya's economy has been held at ransom by a few wealthy individuals. "There are people who are hell bent to ensure this country remains poor. They want a  state where people remain poor so that they continue misusing them," he said. He wondered how Raila will change the country's economy, yet he failed to do so when he served in previous governments. "If I had been invited by the billionaires to the 'presidential interviews,'  I would have simply told them that they have no capacity to decide for the voters on matters of leadership," said Ruto. The MPs told voters in the region to rally behind Ruto, saying he was committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all Kenyans. Washiali said Ruto's development track record was unmatched. They said said the Luhya community was tired of supporting Raila who had nothing to show in terms of development. "We ask our brothers Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula to join forces with the hustler movement if challenges facing our community have to be resolved," said Mr Washiali. Echesa said Luhya leaders have been cheated on presidency for decades and are now ready to chat their own political path. Barasa said laws were being changed to ensure ODM and other tribal parties ascend to power while crucial bills were being rejected. He wondered how the Chief Justice could retire at the age of 70 while 'deadwoods' were being recycled. "We want a leader with a clear policy to people, economy, democracy and issues affecting wananchi," said Waluke. Mabonga said the recent Kakamega endorsement of Raila was not a Luhya affair but was orchestrated by individuals who were pursuing selfish interests. Khalwale said sugar and agriculture sectors in western Kenya did well during the tenure of Ruto as Agriculture minister but now we’re suffering.