Chinese President Xi Jinping talked to the world on Monday when he delivered a special address to the 2022 World Economic Forum (WEF) virtual session from Beijing on special request by WEF’s Founder and Executive Chairman Klaus Schwab. It is not by accident. President Xi is a global leader in his own right and has emerged as one of the world’s voices of reason. Moreover, China’s global partnerships are aligned to WEF’s areas of focus including political, economic, social, and environmental issues affecting the global economy. Similar to his speech in 2021, Xi’s virtual address from Beijing to WEF on Monday was based on the urgent need to build back the global economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic’s battering. WEF 2022’s theme, “Forge Ahead with Confidence and Fortitude to Jointly Create a Better Post-Covid World”, was apt. Xi noted that the world is currently undergoing major changes unseen in a century. These changes, not limited to a particular moment, event, country or region, represent the profound and sweeping changes. As changes of the times combine with the once-in-a-century pandemic, the world finds itself in a new period of turbulence and transformation. People worldwide are seeking ways of beating the pandemic and building the global economy post-Covid. The first step, according to Xi, is to embrace cooperation and jointly defeat the pandemic. “The pandemic is proving a protracted one, resurging with more variants and spreading faster than before. It poses a serious threat to people's safety and health, and exerts a profound impact on the global economy,” the President observed. Therefore, countries need to strengthen international cooperation against Covid-19, carry out active cooperation on research and development of medicines, jointly build multiple lines of defence against the coronavirus, and speed up efforts to build a global community of health for all. Vaccines are right now the first line of defence against the pandemic. The President noted that we need to “fully leverage vaccines as a powerful weapon, ensure their equitable distribution, quicken vaccination and close the global immunization gap, so as to truly safeguard people's lives, health and livelihoods. China has already sent over two billion doses of vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organisations. The country is planning to provide another one billion doses to African countries, including 600 million doses as donations, and will also donate 150 million doses to ASEAN (the Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries. As a way of rebuilding the pandemic-hit economies, Xi proposed the exploration of new drivers of economic growth, new modes of social life and new pathways for people-to-people exchange to help facilitate cross-border trade, keep industrial and supply chains secure and smooth, and promote steady and solid progress in global economic recovery. Xi also called for bridging the development divide and revitalising global development noting that difficulties are mounting in food security, education, employment, medicine, health and other areas important to people's livelihoods. To tackle these challenges, he stated that we must adhere to a people-centred philosophy of development. Further, we need to place development and livelihoods front and centre in global macro-policies, realise the UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and build greater synergy among existing mechanisms of development cooperation to promote balanced development worldwide. Like Xi’s previous entreaties in global forums, he appealed for consensus, rebuilding trust, cooperation and finding solutions for urgent global problems. The point is that while the pandemic could be manageable or eradicated in the medium to long term, it exacerbated prevailing social, economic and environmental problems. It also created problems that hitherto did not exist, posing new challenges for humanity. In 2020, China floated the Global Development Initiative at the UN General Assembly in order to draw international attention to the pressing challenges faced by developing countries. The Initiative is a public good that aims to form a synergy with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and boost common development across the world. China is prepared to work with all partners to jointly translate the Initiative into concrete actions and make sure that no country is left behind in this process. The world today has no place for another Cold War. Rather, we should seek peaceful coexistence and win-win outcomes. Acts of containment, suppression or confrontation are a liability to world peace and security. The way forward for humanity is peaceful development and win-win cooperation. Different countries and civilizations may prosper together on the basis of respect for each other, and seek common ground and win-win outcomes by setting aside differences. Ultimately, we should choose dialogue over confrontation, inclusiveness over exclusion, and stand against all forms of unilateralism, protectionism, hegemony or power politics. Xi’s analogy puts the world’s predicament in perspective: “Facts have shown once again that amidst the raging torrents of a global crisis, countries are not riding separately in some 190 small boats, but are rather all in a giant ship on which our shared destiny hinges.” The writer is the Executive Director of South-South Dialogues, a Nairobi based research and development communication think tank.