Are you in the Central Business District for a green spot and open sitting space? A place to relax and as you take a break from busy schedules?  Worry not, there is hope. The CBD has at least four interesting spaces that you can visit any time of the day without paying a cent. It is a cliche that for one to relax and rest you have to pay money in an exquisite restaurant, which will require you to buy food. Opposite Kenya Archives along Moi Avenue, a long stretched bench that can accommodate 100 people has been provided for commuters. One can enjoy the beautiful scenery of the historic Tom Mboya statue which has been erected around the area. The bench is usually a favourite spot for workers, people doing deliveries, commuters waiting to board matatus and a meeting spot for those coming from different directions within  CBD. It has been assumed that people sitting within the spaces are idle or jobless but on the contrary, the majority are those who need outdoor relaxation mode. A spot check by the Star reveals that the bench is always occupied as early as 7 am.  A majority of them either wait for an appointment or another person. “I normally come here to wait for our offices to open because with the Nairobi traffic jam, it's better to be early in the office than get there late,” Larry Okumu said. Beryl Nyawira who does food deliveries in town says, most offices open from 8 am. Nyawira prefers to relax there. In the afternoon preachers take advantage of the people seated on the bench and treat them as congregants which is not always welcomed by many. During the day, many commuters seated are usually spotted having conversations among themselves while others are busy on their mobile phones. In the evening, as people queue up to wait for matatus to different destinations,  the bench is available for people instead of lining up. Another favourite sitting spot is across Moi Avenue opposite Hilton hotel where the famous circular bench is located. Years back, commuters used to avoid the benches because they were hot spots for crime. Currently, the area has improved security providing a relaxing spot for city dwellers. With a few trees, people don’t have to worry about the scorching sun as the shade is naturally provided. Some find it appealing and relaxing from hearing the rustling of leaves, breeze and fresh air. “Normally this is where I pick up my son whenever he comes back to Nairobi from school. It’s a safe place and no one can get lost and in case one of us is late, there are sitting places provided,”  Joyce Mueni said. Downtown, the famous Aga Khan walk provides a cool ambience for residents to relax. The stretch starts at the Kencom bus station along City Hall Way until Harambee Avenue. Along the stretch, the Sunken Park which is rectangular provides sitting areas for people. The sitting places are surrounding the parking lot to Cooperative  Bank Building. However,  the stretch although not limiting the public is under renovations which are being conducted by the Central Bank of Kenya in partnership with  Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Ballast chips are currently being placed with other renovation works going on. Away from the congested areas in CBD moving uptown, there is the iconic Jevanjee Gardens located between Moi Avenue and Muindi Mbingu street. The garden was founded by the late Alibhai Mullah Jevanjee, an Asian-born entrepreneur in Kenya. He later in 1906 donated the 5-acre recreational park to residents as a resting area. Today, Jevanjee Garden is among the top major public open spaces in Nairobi including Uhuru-Central Park, Jamhuri Park, City Park, Arboretum, Kamkunji, Karura Forest and Ngong Road Forest. Today it is very popular among preachers during lunch hour and small groups of organisations who hold their meetings in the garden. There are many trees and is a favourite rendezvous point for campus students who shoot school projects. However, at the moment, the NMS is rehabilitating the garden to conserve public land. Edited by Kiilu Damaris