Since she announced her departure from UDA, Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici seems to follow her words to the letter. In a dramatic turn, she has wiped out all signs, colours and symbols associated with the party from all her campaign materials. The Star established that her Kerugoya-based private office gate wall has been repainted in white and black. The office was previously branded with the party's yellow  and green colours, a wheelbarrow and inscribed with the party’s slogan. The office was designated as the county’s party headquarters. Her campaign truck, mini vehicles and sound system truck which were all heavily branded with UDA campaign posters have also been peeled off. Late November, Ngirici, through her social media page, unveiled her campaign truck all branded with UDA symbols and colour with the caption ‘Kwani ni Kesho’. Last month, Ngirici announced that she had dumped Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA after alleging that the party’s nomination would be conducted in an unfair manner. She claimed the party was in favour of her political competitor, Governor Anne Waiguru . Ngirici said UDA had already settled on giving Waiguru a direct ticket, alleging that the county boss bought the ticket for a handsome amount of money. She, however, said that instead of doing the same [buying the nomination ticket], she opted to use her money in supporting community group projects that affect the daily lives of the people. Ngirici further said that in the last election, she spent up to Sh40 million shillings in order to clinch the current post, and was not ready to spend more for the sake of a nomination certificate. "I am not afraid to face anyone in the nominations but my truth is the exercise will not be fair as the party has already made it's decision." Waiguru is yet to respond to the allegations made by Ngirici. However, her desire to vie on a UDA ticket is clearly demonstrated through a billboard erected in Kutus town that bears her portrait. A few weeks after joining UDA, Waiguru took a swipe at Ngirici for treating the party like her ‘personal property'. She urged her to accommodate newcomers as the party is a national party that requires growth. As a result, she called on all her competitor to join the party and participate in the nomination as the county residents already have their preferred candidate. (edited by Amol Awuor)