A community-based organisation plans to train boda boda riders on road safety to minimise accidents. Grassroots Community Transformation Centre director Wanjohi Ngunjiri said the sector has had many challenges that ought to be addressed. Ngunjiri said the centre will also sensitise the riders on the need to respect other road users, which will help minimise road accidents. Motorbike riders have been blamed for the many accidents on Kenyan roads, with some said to have no riding licenses, insurance cover, or even both. Ngunjiri spoke at GCTC during a show dubbed Vuka Mwaka Talent Search held at the former Othaya Diploma Teachers College. Seventy contestants participated: 38 ladies and 32 gentlemen. He said more ladies than men participated in the event, and called on men to exploit their talents. One of GCTC's main objectives is to nurture talents, he said, adding that young people are endowed with talents, but have not been able to exploit them due to lack of mentors. “We are training them and have even involved seasoned people so that they can mentor them ,” he said. Ngunjiri said if the talents are well utilised, they can enable them earn a living. They can also educate their peers and the community on HIV/Aids, dangers of drugs and substance abuse. Ngunjiri said the youth could also address mental health issues, reducing suicide cases and rampant cases of indiscipline in schools. Among the sponsors of this season’s talent search are Mukurwe-ini daily, Maisha Kenya, Mukurwe-ini Technical Training Institute, Nyeri county, national government administrators, NCDI, and Equity Afya. Ngunjiri also said the centre plans to speak to students in secondary schools to help fight cases of indiscipline. In the recent months, learners have burned down schools and destroyed infrastructure. Hellen Mtawali, a music judge, who spoke after the contest on Friday, said the contestants have greatly improved after the training, and are now able to write their own songs. However, in terms of gender balance, she said more women contestants registered compared to men. She termed the competition as rigorous, adding that it was a good start. “So I believe that apart from just doing this [show], Nyeri is going to be the pacesetter for Kenya to make people know that they can actually express their talents and do much more,” she said. David Maucha, another judge, said the singers and dancers had significantly improved after the training as exhibited in their final performance. He called on more people to come out and support talents, saying that is the only way to showcase the county to the limelight.  (edited by Amol Awuor)