Voters in Bungoma will face a test similar to that of 2017 when incumbent Governor Wycliffe Wangamati locked horns with his predecessor Kenneth Lusaka. The two are the frontrunners in a race that has attracted, among others, businessman Zacharia Barasa and former Communications Authority of Kenya boss Francis Wangusi. Wangamati, who fell out with Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula has declared his support for ODM leader Raila Odinga. He also has close ties with Defence CS Eugene Wawalwa, the leader of DAP-K party. Senate Speaker Lusaka has not yet declared his party of choice but has been working closely with Wetang'ula. Wetang'ula has even publicly declared Lusaka will be the Ford Kenya candidate for the gubernatorial seat. “When the right time comes, we will after consultations with our supporters, show you the uniform we will wear this time round,” Lusaka said. Barasa is vying on the UDA ticket, while Wangusi will run on the Kanu ticket. Political observers have opined that the race could be a rematch of the 2017 general election between Lusaka and Wangamati. "It will be interesting to watch a rematch between the duo but this time with different uniforms," political analyst Maurice Nyaranga said. Lusaka vied on the Jubilee ticket in the last election, while Wangamati used the Ford Kenya ticket. Wangamati has said he has initiated more projects compared to Lusaka's regime. "You can compare our tenures and you will realise we are worlds apart," he said. Wangamati is however facing rebellion from within as some members of his cabinet have decided to support his competitors. Lusaka said Wangamati's regime has been marred by corruption and favouritism. "This regime thought it wise to concentrate all the multi-billion shilling projects in one ward at the expense of other wards," he said. He said the dual carriageway and the stadium were all in Khalaba ward. Lusaka said during his tenure, he had a budget of Sh6 billion and projects were distributed equally across the county. Barasa urged residents to elect him, saying both Lusaka and Wangamati have failed. "Both leaders have failed Bungoma and it is time to elect a new crop of leadership," he said. Wangusi has not been seen on the campaign trail. He said if elected, he will take the county to greater development heights. "I have enough experience having worked in the public sector," Wangusi said. Edited by A.N