Vihiga Senator George Khaniri has told ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi the region is not ready to support Deputy President William Ruto and that he will "walk alone to Sugoi". He said Mudavadi’s decision to join Ruto was a bad idea, which most of his supporters are still trying to come to terms with. “We have been struggling to see if we can get this leadership and the only way we are sure of getting it is by pushing for Raila Odinga to win the presidency. Once he clinches it we are safe,” Khaniri said. “Raila is the only superior weapon we can use to get power.” The senator was speaking during a church service at Mukhombe Salvation Army in Emuhaya subcounty. The lawmaker said that ever since Kenya attained freedom, the western region always gets confused whenever they are close to power and split their votes. Khaniri said Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula's move will split votes. Lugaga wa Muluma MCA Victor Ijaika said they need to do more groundwork and listen to the voters before making a decision. Other Vihiga MCAs who did not want to be mentioned said their Mudavadi never consulted them. They say the party boss move was a real earthquake for them as they had not even prepared for such a move. After Mudavadi joined Ruto, several ANC MPs have ditched the party. Last week, Mudavadi dismissed reports that ANC is weakened following the defection, saying they are stronger than before. At the same time, he said his political movement dubbed 'Earthquake' will deal with MPs who defected from his camp to Raila on the ballot. "The ANC party remains strong despite the buyout of a few MPs. The ones that remain are double the strength of those who have been bought by State House/Azimio machinery. "We are not moved. I predict that the earthquake will deal with the defecting MPs at the right time," he said. He dismissed reports that a cabal of government officers will succeed in influencing voters on the leaders they want to be elected into office. "Someone senior in this government once told me that they can not allow the government to be in the hands of someone who is not a pedigree. It is only Kenyans who will decide who becomes President at the ballot come August 9," he stated. Edited by A.N