Africa Under-20 10,000m race walking champion Dominic Ndigiti has set his focus to compete at this year’s World Race Walking Challenge from February 1-5 in Oman. Ndigiti, who is also the world under-18 10,000m bronze medalist, said he will be using the World Race Walking Championships as a build-up for the World Championships in Oregon, USA as well as Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England. After missing out on representing the country at the Olympic Games last year in Tokyo, Japan, the Nyamira-based walker has three important events this year and he is keen on winning medals. “Last year, I was out of form and missed a chance to compete at the Olympic Games. This time, I want to try my best and win medals for this country in walking,” said Ndigiti. He claimed that he is now fit enough to compete on the global stage and the journey will kick off at the World Race walking Challenge in Oman in February. “The championships will be my first race after graduating into the senior cadre. Apart from the Race Challenge, I will also be preparing to compete at the KipKeino Classic back home in May,” he said. The Oman event will be used by World Athletics to rank athletes ahead of the Oregon event.  “ I want is to be ranked top as I seek to qualify for the World Championships as well as the Commonwealth Games. This will be a very busy year for me and I will need other Kenyan race walkers to join the train,” he said. He added that Kenya has a strong team of walkers but there are no events to compete on the global stage. “I want to urge Athletics Kenya to organise races for walkers in the country and if possible include the event in all weekend meetings. This is the only way we can compete effectively at the top level,” he said. He said he wants to build up on the gold he won at the Africa Under-20. Ndigiti and world under 20 10,000m race walking champion Heristone Wanyonyi have been friends and competed together during secondary school games and has urged him to enter into the championships. Wanyonyi is among those junior athletes that have been nominated for this year’s Sports Personality of Year (SOYA) Awards that will be held in Kakamega this month. “Wanyonyi is my long-time friend and we competed together at the school games. We now want to take it to another level and I am happy I have his company," said Ndigiti who trains under George Kariuki.