Businessman Jimi Wanjigi’s co-accused persons wanted in court for land forgery will appear on March 18. This is after a Nairobi court extended the summons issued last week. The six include Himanshu Dodhia alias Velji Premchard, Kaneez Noorani, Mohammed Hussein, Mohammed Hussanali, Kairu Augustine and John Njenga. They were to appear in court on Monday and plead to the charges. Senior principal magistrate Benard Ochoi extended their summonses after a successful application by their lawyer. Last week, the court has issued a warrant of arrest against Wanjigi. The court issued summons to Wanjigi’s wife and six others accused of conspiring to commit forgery. The prosecution, through investigating officer Patrick Maloba, had requested the court to have the arrest warrants issued against the accused persons. He said he intends to apprehend the accused persons and bring them to court. He said the police has tried to reach out to them but their phones were off and want other government agencies to assist in arresting the suspects. But the magistrate considered the application filed by the police and said all other accused persons might not be aware that they were required in court. He said the accused persons were not bonded and so they need to be summoned. According to the intended charge sheet, Wanjigi and seven others are being accused that between April 9, 2010, and June 5, 2018, at an unknown place within the country, conspired to forge a title deed for land under the name of Horizon hills limited. They face another count of forging the title deed for land under the name of Dodhia Foam Limited, purporting it to be a genuine and valid deed issued and signed by a surveyor G.S. Gitau. The eight are accused of forging a grant contrary to law on the same dates and place. However, on Wednesday last week, the court directed that Wanjigi be released. Magistrate Ochoi, while issuing the order, cited a High Court order that stayed Wanjigi's prosecution. Wanjigi was last Tuesday arrested after a 20-hour siege by police at his offices on General Mathenge road. Edited by Kiilu Damaris