Most schools in the Kerio Valley have reopened with tight security in the region where banditry attacks have intensified. The government has tightened security, deployed armed security at all affected schools, added patrols so preparation and exams can take place in security. More than 45 people were killed by bandits last year in the region. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said each of the schools in the affected areas will continue to be guarded by two armed officers around the clock, among other security measures. “We have mapped out the affected areas and deployed teams to ensure our children who will be sitting for exams learn in a peaceful environment,” Natembeya said. More than 30 schools in villages along Kerio River in Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo are the most affected. Bandit attacks are reported almost daily. “We are working with the government and security teams to ensure schools and other operations continue under tight security as we look for a long-term solution to the banditry problem," Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Tolgos and other leaders have been addressing a series of peace meetings in the region, urging communities to live harmoniously. Knut official John Cheberi said they want the government to support schools as they prepare for the exams in March. A spot check indicated several schools including Tot and Sambalat primary and secondary schools had re-opened although teachers said there was tension due to the attacks. “Many people fled from their homes and a good number of pupils are yet to report back to schools though we expect the situation to improve in the course of the week,” a teacher at Tot Primary School said. Leaders and communities last week expressed hope that the attacks will not escalate in the New Year. Those killed last year included women, school children, security officers and other residents who were shot dead. “It has been a bloody year in Kerio Valley but we pray the same does not happen in  2022 and that our people will live in peace, moving forward," Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich said. Natembeya said rapid response teams are patrolling hot spots. The counties of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo are the most affected and Governors Tolgos, John Lonyangapuo and Stanley Kiptis, respectively, have pledged to work with the government, churches and communities to restore peace. “We we will step up peace and unity activities considering  we are also heading to the elections period and we do not want anyone to take advantage of the situation and cause more problems," Tolgos said. North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) chairman Jackson Mandago who is also the Uasin Gishu Governor has urged parents and leaders to educate their children as a better, though long-term way, of finding a lasting solution to the recurring problems. Mandago said it is only through education that locals will find better ways of empowerment rather than being confined to cattle rustling and banditry, vices that detail development and growth. (Edited by V. Graham)