Thirteen women have declared interest in the Kisii Woman Representative seat in the August 9 General elections. They are seeking to succeed the incumbent Janet Ong’era, who has since expressed interest in the governor seat. Ong’era is serving her second term as the area woman representative. The aspirants include Brigit Ombati, Dorice Nyaboke ( Donya), Fontina Ngare, Esther Nyamwamu, Everline Ogendo, Doreen Bwari, Julie Nyanchama, Getrude Mogoi, Gladys Aunga, Maureen Obino, Risper Ndege, Rebecca Akemo and Lucy Machuki. The aspirants, who are allied to various political parties and have been attending political rallies organized by governor aspirants to be identified, nominated and given tickets. Governor aspirants in Kisii, Omingo Magara of UDA and Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati of ODM, have since told the women that the parties will nominate the best female candidates and assured losers they will be absorbed in the national and County Assemblies. Speaking to the Star in Kisii, Machuki, who has since resigned as Gucha branch Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) executive secretary, said she decided to contest for the seat to serve more people. “I have led Knut members as executive secretary, and I believe I have the experience to take up the position of a woman representative. I am shopping for a party,” Machuki said. The former unionist said she has a passion for education and economic empowerment for women, youths and People Living With Disabilities (PLWD), adding that if Kisii voters give her the opportunity, she will give them a priority. Machuki raised concern over rising cases of Gender-Based Violence (GBV), teenage pregnancies, drug and substance abuse and challenged stakeholders to assist in the fight against the vices to foster peace and development. She noted that several schoolgirls were dropping out of school due to pregnancies while the schoolboys were abusing drugs and illicit brew. She said schoolgirls who give birth and drop out of school are neglected by their parents or guardians and thus are compelled to do menial jobs to raise their babies. Machuki said, if elected, she would allocate funds from the National Government Affirmative Action (NGAAF) kitty to aid school dropouts to acquire technical skills and venture into income-generating activities to earn a living.