So one of your new year resolutions is working out, get in shape and attain that dream body but you're afraid of going to the gym. I understand, there's Covid-19, strangers and the tricky part is you don't know where to start and you don't want people staring as you look clueless. Worry not, I've got you covered. Here is a list of simple workouts you can do at the comfort of your house, with just a chair. Chair workouts allow one to not only target their lower body but upper body as well while supported, making them an amazing choice for people with balance issues. 1) Alternating cross crunch Sit on the seat of a sturdy chair with your torso upright and away from the back of it. Place your feet flat on the floor about hip-width apart and your fingertips behind your head, with your elbows pointing out to the sides. Raise your left foot off the floor and bring your right elbow toward your left knee by twisting your torso. Ensure you touch your right elbow to the left knee if you can and squeeze your obliques while you are rotating and crunching. Count to ten then switch to the other side and continue alternating sides for 2 or 3 reps. 2) Mountain climbers Stand facing a firm chair with your feet hip-width apart and arms at your sides then lower your upper body towards the chair and proceed to place your palms flat on the seats edge directly below your shoulders. Stretch your feet out behind you ensuring that your back isn't strained. Then fold your feet like you're about to sprint, ensuring there's ample distance between them. Raise your right leg to touch your right elbow then repeat the same with your left leg. Keep on alternating them one then the other as if you're running. Maintain a pace that you're comfortable with. 3) Elevated push-ups Stand facing a sturdy chair with your feet hip-width apart and arms at your sides. Lower your upper body towards the chair and proceed to place your palms flat on the seat (they should be directly below your shoulders). Stretch your legs straight out behind you with your toes planted and heels elevated off the floor (like you're on your tippy toes). Keep your back flat and straight, your body should be at a slight angle. Bend your elbows to slowly lower your chest to the seat until the elbows are at a 90-degree angle. Then push your body away from the chair until your elbows are fully extended. Continue this counting to a number you're comfortable with. 4) Glute kickback Stand facing the back of a sturdy chair with your feet about 8 to 12 inches away from it. Place your hands on the top of the back of the chair. Brace your core and engage your glute muscles, then extend your right leg behind you. Your toes will point down and heel toward the ceiling (like a reverse tippy toe). Pause for a moment with your leg extended behind you, you should feel the contraction in your right glute. Lower your right leg to the starting position, making sure to keep the movement slow and controlled. Complete all your reps on one side, then alternate sides. 5) Triceps dip Extend your legs straight out behind you with your toes planted and heels elevated. Brace your core muscles and keep your back flat and straight. Bring your right knee toward your right arm. Then, as the right leg returns to the starting position, bring your knee toward your left arm. Continue alternating, keeping the pace to something you're comfortable with. To make it easier, perform this movement at a walking speed, then quicken the pace once you're comfortable. With these simple exercises you can have your body toned and in shape at your comfort. Don't let distance to the gym or membership payments discourage you from achieving your body goals.