Kenya will adopt a global model of appointing national team coaches, Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee member Ali Amour has said. Speaking on Monday, Amour said they would break away from the age-old tradition where the appointment of national team coaches has been influenced by vested interests and riddled with controversies. “For us to start performing well on the international front, we need to use a different approach in identifying national team coaches. All individuals tasked with the responsibility of presiding over the activities of the national team should be picked on merit,” said Amour. Amour spoke even as the committee held a meeting to determine the fate of Harambee Starlets head coach Charles Okere ahead of the remaining World Cup qualifiers in the coming months. “Okere's position as Harambee Starlets' head coach is not guaranteed. We shall subject him to the selection process just like any other applicant seeking to fill the position,” said Amour. “We have formed specific committees to identify suitable candidates and take them through the right process. By doing so, we hope to get the right individuals who will bring us the desired results,” he added. Okere's first assignment in charge of the Starlets took off on a high note after he led his charges to an emphatic 8-0 drubbing of South Sudan's Bright Starlets at the Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. Prior to the match, he had led Vihiga Queens to an impressive Caf Women's Champions League campaign in Egypt. Amour also sought to dispel rumours that have linked former Harambee Stars coach Adel Amrouche with a possible return to the team given his heightened activities in the country in recent weeks. “The truth is that we as a committee have not sat down to discuss the appointment of the Harambee Stars head coach and any talk of the committee contemplating to appoint Amrouche as a coach should be treated as rumours,” said Amour. “We don't even have anyone in mind just yet and we shall invite applications at the right moment,” he added. Amrouche was among an ensemble of high profile football dignitaries who graced a coaching course organized by the Mombasa County Football Association in conjunction with the  Kenya Football Coaches Association and FKF presidential hopeful Twaha Mbarak,  in Mombasa on December 24. 