A teacher at Nyarenda Primary in Bomachoge Chache, Kisii county, has been put on the spot over spiraling pregnancies at the school. At least six pupils are currently pregnant, most of them are KCPE candidates. On Sunday, the parents told journalists they want the teacher arrested and prosecuted. They said affected pupils confided in them saying the teacher had been preying on them during prep hours on weekends. Gender activists have since weighed in, asking the government to start a "swift, deep and decisive probe into the incident". A pupil told journalists that she was lured into an office by the teacher and was repeatedly defiled. She is six months pregnant. “We are saddened, we had high hopes on the teacher but he has turned out to be a beast. Worse still, the ministry officials who were informed more than one month ago are not helping,” said John Kebaso, one of the parents. The parent said the incidents started as soon as the teacher was posted to the school. "While we are not directly linking him to all these pregnancies, we suspect there is something fishy going on that needs some explanation,” a parent said. Cyrus Ogega, an activist, spoke of rot in the school during a visit to the institution. “As residents we are aware of schemes by some parents and education officials in Ogembo and Kenyenya to have the matter silenced so that the teacher who is nearing retirement can be given his pension. We cannot keep quiet as the predator destroys the livelihoods of our children, justice must be done,” the activist told the Star. He also accused the county education director Pius Ng’oma of negligence , saying he should also be investigated for possible cover ups of such vices in the county. Ng’oma however said he only received a phone call from somebody but he is yet to receive any formal complaint. “I am starting an investigations on Monday. If confirmed to be true the law will take its course,” he told the Star by phone. Ogega further wants the area MP Alfa Miruka to follow up the matter to ensure more pupils are not caught in the web of defilements by teachers posted in the constituency. He said the teacher has a history of defilements from his former school and should not be allowed to teach in any school in Kenya. ‘’The law is very clear that no teacher who sexually molests learners should be allowed in class and this one should be no exception. We are not seeking a transfer but an interdiction and arrest so that justice can be served,” he said. He also called for the transfer of any other teacher who aided in the cover up.