If not all, most of us have been using YouTube for years. We have the app on all our devices from phones to television sets but probably don’t think much about any of its settings. After all, the little rectangular red app is mostly for watching music, movies, or learning. However, the video platform has added so many features and tools in recent years that you’re probably missing some of its most useful capabilities. From ways on how you can set limits on how much time you or your toddlers are glued to videos, to having your favourite song on repeat as you clean the house. These tips are here to help you get the most out of this app 1) Share a Specific Part of a Video You want to share a video but it’s too long or the other parts aren’t as funny or relevant as the part you wish to share. You assume the only option available is to send the video and ask someone to fast forward to the said part. Wrong With adjustments on the app, you can actually just share only the part of the video that you want. To do this, you just need to add a timestamp at the end of the original URL: Once you click Share under a video on the web interface, you’ll see a "Start at" the box right below where the link is displayed. In the box, you can tick and enter the time you want the video to start when someone clicks on the link you've sent. 2) Loop videos So your favourite artist has released a new song or you're listening to a DIY channel that you want on repeat in order to grasp things. You're multitasking and you can't keep on clicking replay, worry not you can loop youtube videos for one hour. Now you get to relax and listen to sounds of rain and thunder as you curl up and read your book. The feature may not be in plain sight but it's very easy to find. On the web, right-click on the video itself and the Loop option will be displayed. On mobile, tap on the video clip on its individual listing page, then tap the three dots on the top right and the option to Loop video will be available. 3) Keep Watching Across Devices It's cool that YouTube lets you sync your viewing across multiple devices as long as you’re signed in. But what is way cooler is the fact that if you were watching something on your mobile then switch to the website, on your laptop you'll notice a small mini-player show up in the corner of the screen. This is a highlight of the video you were watching on your phone, thus you can pick up where you left off. 4) Limit Your Time on YouTube Let's say you're addicted to pranks/ watching Indians build things in the middle of the forest and you're really trying to curb this. YouTube understands and it has got you. Tap your profile image in the top right corner, then select Time watched and scroll down the page. You'll see options from reminding you to take a break, to sending you a notification at a designated bedtime, and on top of that you can turn autoplay on or off. Hope these little tricks will help make your experience on the app so much better and more enjoyable