Strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani has rejoined the Kenya Sevens team on a three-month contract. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Oduor Gangla, said Kimani will specifically deal with speed training for the side as they embark on the World Sevens Series legs in Malaga and Seville this month.  Vancouver, and Los Angeles legs are scheduled for February and March respectively. Gangla was noncommittal on whether the contract will be extended with sevens tournaments scheduled before the end of May. The others are Singapore (April ), Toulouse, and London in May. Commonwealth Games are planned for July in Birmingham and the Rugby Sevens World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa in September. “It's too early to talk about the contract extension. This is something the team management and the board will deliberate on as we go along," he added. Gangla said they expect Kimani to add value to the team and they hope to see an improvement in form in the coming legs of the World Sevens Series starting this month in Malaga. “The boys are determined to do the country proud and amass as many points as possible,” he added. Shujaa have had an underwhelming start to the season and are currently placed eight on the log with 22 points having won three out of 12 matches in the two opening tournaments played in Dubai in November and December. This will be Kimani's fourth stint with the national team having started in 200/2009 under the late Benjamin Ayimba. The duo was reunited yet again for the 2015/2016 season, where Shujaa bagged its only trophy date, winning the Singapore Sevens Series after beating Fiji in the final. Kimani and current head coach Innocent Simiyu worked together during the 2017/2018 season, where the team amassed its highest points tally of 104 points and reached two finals in Vancouver and Hong Kong in the same season. Kimani has had training stints with the Kenya athletics team during the World Championships in Beijing in 2015 as well as the Tokyo Olympics last year. 