Digital Strategist Dennis Itumbi has narrated his painful ordeal at the hands of his alleged kidnappers. Speaking on Thursday, Itumbi said the six men who had kidnapped him had taken turns in beating him. "The Hit Squad that operates in fear of being seen, being exposed or being pointed out in public, had long dropped the Premio that had picked me at Thindigua, outside a Barbershop and at this time the six men had taken turns in beating me with what felt like hammers and related crude weapons," he said. He said the kidnappers whom he referred to as 'Rogue police officers' asked him to change his political persuasion, but he refused. "Lazima ubadilishe your political persuasion to match that of the boss," Itumbi said. "Whoever it is, tell him we do not change our political belief, through force and threats, he has to learn the art of persuasion," he responded. He said that individuals who were in two double-cabin vehicles dumped him naked in a forest before they drove off. "Sikiza wewe, hatujakuua...lakini ukipiga nduru tutarudi tukumalize...." Itumbi narrated. This translates to "Listen, we have not killed you but if you scream we will come back and kill you." "It was raining heavily as they drove off in two double cabins. A Black one and a white one." The vocal blogger was abducted as he left a barbershop and allegedly tortured later before he was abandoned in the Lucky Summer area, Kasarani, Nairobi. He had a broken hand and his legs were slightly injured after being knocked by a hammer. Itumbi was later admitted to the hospital’s Intensive Care Unit after he was found to have pneumonia after the abduction. Deputy President William Ruto sensationally claimed Itumbi was tortured by people who should have been there to protect him. Police denied involvement in the incident after UDA allied politicians linked them to his abduction. Police spokesman Bruno Shioso said they are investigating the incident. “Spent time with Comrade DI (Dennis Itumbi) last evening (Tuesday), saw his heavily bandaged arm and legs, the result of torture by people who should have been there to protect him and us all.” “They have now turned violent and fatalistic after all the negative narratives, threats and blackmail against us failed,” he said.