Fresh details have emerged on how City Hall's chief officer Mohammed Sahal rejected a top position in  Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA. He was picked to be the Deputy Secretary General in charge of operations after the party had nominated him and published his name in the list of party officials in December last year. However, Sahal who is the current Chief Officer for Finance through a letter dated December 3, 2020 turned down the offer noting that it would amount to a conflict of interest given his role as a public officer. "Thank you for offering me the position. Unfortunately, I have decided to turn it down as it isn’t the right fit for me because I am a public officer,” read the letter. The chief officer had been picked to replace  Ruth Ondicho and be part of the team responsible in managing Ruto's presidential campaigns. “Kindly communicate the same to the Registrar of Political Parties. I wish you all the best in finding someone suitable for the position,” the letter further reads. Responding to Sahal, UDA secretary general Veronica Maina said they respect his decision. “…We regret that you are not able to take up this position. However,  we respect and accept your decision on this matter and we shall forthwith request the Registrar of Political Parties to degazette you from the list of our NEC members,” she said through a letter on the same date. In the party changes announced by UDA through the gazette notice dated December 3, 2021, Omingo Magara was appointed national treasurer, replacing Eddah Jebet. Karisa Munyika took over as national organising secretary, replacing Anthony Otieno Ombok. UDA also picked Seth Panyako as deputy chairperson, Programmes and Nicholas Marete as the deputy chair, Strategy. Kirwa Rono was appointed as the deputy chairperson in charge of Operations. While Eliud Owalo took deputy secretary-general in charge of Strategy. Sahal graced the City Hall in April 2018, after he was vetted and appointed as a Chief Officer. In the last five years, he has served as Chief officer of various departments including health, finance, urban planning and others.