Homa Bay gubernatorial aspirants have embarked on grass-root campaigns after ODM leader Raila Odinga failed to endorse any of them. Raila visited Kabondo Kasipul, Homa Bay Town and Ndhiwa constituencies where he rallied residents behind Azimio La Umoja movement and urged eligible youths to register as voters. In his speech, Raila concentrated on voter listing and his 10-point transformative economic agenda. “Let’s focus on the bigger picture and register as voters because all these aspirants are my people. The issue of who get which seat shouldn’t bother us now,” Raila said. During the tour many of the residents vainly expected Raila to give them direction on preferred successor of Governor Cyprian Awiti. Long time supporter of ODM Patrick Agwagra said Raila failed to meet the expectation of the majority in Homa Bay. Agwagra argued that many supporters of governor aspirants were keenly waiting for Raila endorse a candidate. The ODM leader also opened a Sh1.4billion water project dubbed the Homa Bay Cluster Project whose construction was done by Lake Victoria Water Works Development Agency. The project was funded by the Belgian government in collaboration with the Ministry of Water. In Ndhiwa, Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo persuaded Raila to intervene in the matter saying the coveted seat has attracted leaders who should help him in national politics. “Jakom, I see people including the ones you consider as foot soldiers concentrating on the governor seat. Because of that when you become president, pass BBI and make me a minister,” Millie said. The seat has already attracted 10 aspirants including former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero, ODM chairman John Mbadi, Woman rep Gladys Wanga, Deputy governor Hamilton Orata and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. Others are the county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, businessmen Jared Kiasa and Louis Ogingo. Agwagra opined that Homa Bay governor race is becoming more complex. “Among Kidero, Wanga, Magwanga ,Ogwe and Mbadi no one can say they have a head start. It is difficult to know who will win the ODM ticket,” Agwagra said. Raila had already pronounced that they will prioritise consensus when picking a candidate before employing other measures like universal suffrage and direct tickets. In Homa Bay town, Raila asked the residents to allow him work with Awiti at the national level after his governor term ends. He told political aspirants to remain in ODM because they will get job opportunities if he forms the next government. Governor aspirants who accompanied Raila included Magwanga, Mbadi, Wanga, Orata, Ogwe and Ogingo. The aspirants are now criss-crossing the county with an aim of winning support. Wanga pitch tent for three days in Suba North islands of  Mfang’ano, Ringiti, Remba and Rusinga. Her message anchored on empowering residents economically. “Nobody understands family issues than a woman. My agenda is to make life easy for the people of Homa Bay,” Wanga said in Rusinga. Kidero is focusing on economic transformation. The former governor says he wants to transform Homa Bay into an economic hub in Nyanza region. “Homa Bay is endowed with resources which we can tap and transform the living standards of our people. We’re beyond guess work,” Kidero said in Kasipul constituency. Mbadi, Ogingo and Ogwe have also been traversing Ndhiwa which is the most populous constituency in Homa Bay. The ODM chairman argues that he is the most experienced politician among his competitors. Mbadi was first elected as Suba MP in 2007. “I understand devolution so I cannot fail the people of Homa Bay. I’m an accountant by profession and I know how to utilise resources,” he said in Kanyamwa Kologi ward. Magwanga boasts of his past record during tenure as Kasipul MP. He was listed twice as the best in CDF utilisation in the country during his term as MP. “It’s only in the hands of Magwanga where Homa Bay people are safe. My leadership has been tested and proven,” Magwanga said during his endorsement by some elders from the greater Rachuonyo region. Homa Bay currently has at least 503,000 registered voters.