AFC Leopards assistant coach, Tom Juma, reckons that the mid-season transfer window will afford them a glorious opportunity to turn around the dwindling fortunes of the club. Speaking on Wednesday, Juma said they will be rummaging through the market for razor-sharp strikers to amend the persistent goal drought that has condemned them to a series of losses and draws in the top tier. “Given an opportunity, we would strengthen all the departments. However, we shall use the limited resources we have to acquire a couple of strikers because that's the one department that requires urgent attention,” said Juma. “We've been building up quite well from behind in almost all our matches only to falter in the attacking third. We would be in a better position by now if we had clinical finishers up front, but that has not been the case,” said Juma. He, however, ruled out the possibility of plunging resources into the foreign market, saying some factors beyond their control may connive to scuttle such plans. “I don't think it will be possible to break through the international market until administrative issues return to normal at Kandanda House, given the complexity of the whole transfer process,” said Juma. “We can only hope to sign local players given the current situation in the local football scene,” he added. And in a fashion reminiscent of the drastic move they made at the start of the season, the club may still turn to the academy side in yet another desperate attempt to plug the existing holes — if push comes to shove. “Chances are high we shall promote some outstanding players from the academy side to bolster our squad. The few that found their way into the senior team last time didn't disappoint at all,” said Juma. Juma reckons the team have gained some considerable traction despite having been hurriedly patched up following the unprecedented mass walkout of dependable luminaries at the end of the preceding season. “The most encouraging thing is that the cubs we acquired from our youth team and a few other players we brought in from the rival clubs at the beginning of the season have gelled well enough with the rest of the team. “As you may have already noticed, we have been posting impressive results anytime we play either at Nyayo Stadium or Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Juma says the 13-time Kenyan champions are determined to entertain their ardent fans with resplendent football as they continue to jut out their claws in search of the elusive title. “It all boils down to our philosophy and style of play. AFC Leopards usually prefer keeping the ball on the surfaces during matches. We shall continue playing beautiful and attractive football,” said Juma. 