Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has dismissed the recent meeting held at the State House where President Uhuru Kenyatta hosted a section of leaders from the Western Kenya region. Speaking in Nakuru County on Wednesday at the NakuruASK Showground, during the UDA, ANC, Ford-Kenya joint rally, Malala said sugar factories in his region are collapsing under Uhuru's tenure. He said since the 2017 general election, the president has toured the region once to inspect development projects. According to him, the tour was during the Mashujaa day celebrations. "You cannot wait until it's a few days to the next general elections so that you invite our MPs to the State House to be fed with ugali. We want to tell Uhuru that our western people don't want your ugali, they want their factories to be revived," Malala said. He continued that: "We want our Mumias Sugar and Nzoia Sugar companies and Panpaper mills revived before being invited to State House." Malala stated that the Luhya community will not be directed on which side to lean on ahead of the August 9, elections. He also said that the community has been standing with ODM leader Raila Odinga for decades adding that they will not back him anymore. The senator added that the issues and grievances that have been facing the region will only be solved if they are part of the government. On Tuesday at State House, Uhuru assured leaders from the region who attended the meeting that the government's projects will be completed. He, however, expressed his displeasure with the move by the ANC leader to strike deal with Ruto, a man whose relationship with Uhuru dwindled after the Handshake. The leaders particularly thanked the president for his timely intervention that led to the degazettement of Chetambe Hills as a national forest reserve. The enforcement of the July 2021 gazettement of the heavily-settled 406-acres of land would have led to the displacement of over 10,000 residents of Maraka and Mihuu Wards in Webuye East Constituency, Bungoma County.