Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache on Thursday came under fire over idle life-saving ventilators when the country was battling Covid-19. MPs on Thursday pushed the PS to explain the criteria used by the ministry to dump some ventilators in hospitals as Kenyans died from the virus. The PS appeared before the Public Accounts Committee, which is examining the special audit report on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds for the period 13th March, 2020 to 31st July, 2020. According to Auditor General Nancy Gathungu, the Health ministry procured 100 ventilators of which 75 were dispatched to various health facilities across the country. The audit pointed out that 43 ventilators were dispatched to hospitals that were not ready, hence they were not installed and were still in their original packaging. According to the report, Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital received 18 ventilators at the peak of pandemic and which remained idle in store for two years since the facility lacked an Intensive Care Unit. At Mama Lucy they were forced to keep the machines in store. Five ventilators each deployed to Kauwi Level 4 Hospital (Kitui) and Nyahururu Level 4 Hospital (Laikipia) were not in use as both facilities lacked ICU. Ruiru subcounty Hospital also received five ventilators but they could not put them into use because the facility was not ready for installation. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale questioned what informed deployment of the life-saving ventilators to hospitals without necessary infrastructure for their operations. “There are Kenyans who died because of ventilators. Why do you take a ventilator when you know there was no ICU in those hospitals?” posed Duale. PAC chairman Opiyo Wandayi wondered why the ministry could not prioritise health facilities with necessary infrastructure in the distribution of the ventilators. Mochache however defended the deployment of ventilators explaining it was guided by a recommendation by a technical team that had gone around the country to conduct need assessment. “Our response was informed by a technical team report and it is this that decided on the distribution of the ventilators,” Mochache told the Committee. She said the team made recommendation on how many ventilators were to be sent to which hospitals as an intervention to stop the fast spreading virus.