Former Teso South MP Mary Emase has asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to tell Busia people what he has done for them before visiting the area to look for votes. Emase, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, said the former Prime Minister must list development projects he has initiated to benefit Busia residents. The ex-MP said on Wednesday that the ODM chief has been reluctant in pushing for development projects in Busia despite receiving overwhelming support from the county when he vied for the presidency in 2007, 2013 and 2017. She said Busia has minimally benefitted in development compared to other regions in the country which have consistently supported Raila’s presidential quest. “Those popularising Azimio la Umoja here in Busia should tell us what the former Prime Minister has done for the county in development terms,” Emase said. “For a long time, Busia has been voting for Raila. But the question is what have we achieved as the people of Busia? This time he is returning to look for votes. Let him tell us how we will benefit from his government first.” Emase was speaking at Adungosi market in Teso South subcounty in Busia when she hosted Ruto. The DP was in the county for a one-day tour as he continues to popularise his State House bid ahead of the August general election. He addressed rallies in Teso North, Teso South, Nambale, Butula, Matayos, Funyula and Budalang’i. “The people of Busia will not take lies. There will be no free votes in Busia because politics is about interests. As the people of Busia, we want to ask what shall we get with the votes we will cast in favour of leaders in Azimio la Umoja. We want to be told now how we will benefit from that government.” Emase was elected as MP in 2013 on Ruto’s United Republican Party, which by then had formed a coalition with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s The National Alliance. The MP, alongside Teso North’s Arthur Odera, were the only lawmakers who were elected on the URP party ticket in the border county at the time. Most of the other MPs and MCA were elected on ODM tickets. Emase was elbowed out by ODM’s Geoffrey Omuse in the 2017 general election as Busia once again rallied support for the former premier. “From the time I joined politics, I worked closely with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, and I can count to you the things we brought to Busia—from Alupe University to the tarmacking of roads and construction of technical colleges in the county,” she said. “But from the time the handshake came, the only things we are seeing are potholes on the roads. Even supervision for these roads is not there.” She said Ruto’s support for the people of Busia cannot be challenged. “We have already agreed with the DP what he will do for us in case he becomes president, and it is in our blueprint. That is why we are confidently walking with him as we move towards elections,” Emase said. The former lawmaker is among the few leaders who have remained DP's allies since 2013. She is presently the UDA national vice treasurer and has played a key role in organising Ruto’s Busia visits. In less than three months, Ruto has toured Busia three times. Prior to his Wednesday tour, the DP was in the county on October 23 last year. He returned 12 days later on November 4 last year. Raila was in the county on February 28 last year when he attended a church service at Lwanya Catholic Church before meeting ODM delegates at Bukalama Resort. He later addressed a rally at the Busia main bus park. Edited by A.N