ODM leader Raila Odinga has termed the Kenya Kwanza alliance of Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi as a coalition of thieves, urging Kenyans to reject them at the ballot. The former Prime Minister said the alliance was pulled together by the urge to continue with the plunder of public resources. He said his Azimio La Umoja movement will face the Kenya Kwanza team head-on and scuttle their plans during the August 9 general election. “Thieves have ganged up in one corner and they are now three. One thief has called his two colleagues and they are in one corner but Kenyans are in all corners,” Raila said. Raila revisited various scandals some of which include Goldenberg and Anglo-Leasing. The ODM boss also mentioned City Council Cemetery Land scandal, Langata Primary land grab, Kimwarer and Arror and embassy scandals that almost brought the country to its knees. “One was my deputy as the Prime Minister and all he did was to steal cemetery land and his accomplice is still in jail. One was Agriculture minister and was involved in the importation of maize,” Raila said. However, Mudavadi was cleared in Goldenberg, Anglo-Leasing and the Cemetery scandals where his name was mentioned. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula who was forced to resign from the Cabinet in October 2010 after being linked to Tokyo embassy property scandal was also cleared of any wrongdoing. Raila however insisted that the new grouping led by Ruto and Mudavadi is tainted and asked Kenyans to reject them on the ballot. “I have enough evidence that they are thieves. Those are not people to lead this country,” he said. He reiterated that his administration will not tolerate corruption and anyone found to be involved in graft will be jailed at Kamiti Maximum prison. The ODM leader was speaking on Sunday when he held a tour of the city. Earlier, the fourth time presidential candidate attended a church service at the United Christian Missionaries in Gatina Ward, Dagoretti North constituency. He was accompanied by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, former Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi, MPs James Orengo (Siaya), Tim Wanyonyi (Westlands), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), George Aladwa (Makadara) and Nairobi senate aspirant Edwin Sifuna. He added that Azimio government will implement free education, as well have all Kenyans under a medical cover through the Baba Care initiative. He also criticised those dismissing his Sh6,000 social protection programme targeting poor households, saying he will deliver the promise. “Those saying we are telling lies, as former PM I know where there is money in this country. I will seal all the loopholes to get money for the program,” he said. He termed the August polls a third and final liberation that will bring economic freedom to the country’s youths. Oparanya dismissed the Kenya Kwanza alliance between Ruto,Musalia and Wetang'ula, saying it is not being felt on the ground. “Musalia and Wetang'ula joined him as individuals, [but] Luhya community is still in Azimio La Umoja and backing Raila for president,” Oparanya said. Wanyonyi, on his part, hit at the DP over claims that Raila is a state project in the coming polls, saying the ODM boss has never been anybody’s project. (edited by Amol Awuor)