A section of police officers are anxious after two of their senior colleagues were sent on compulsory leave for their role in the eviction of residents of Mukuru slums, Nairobi. They argue the move to ask Nairobi regional police boss Augustine Nthumbi and Embakasi subcounty police commander John Nyamu was escapist and discriminatory. This is because the two were part of a team that made a decision to deploy police to the site where thousands of residents were evicted to pave way for construction of a road and housing units. Nthumbi is a member of the Nairobi region security committee, which sat and approved the move while Nyamu sits on the local subcounty one. “They were sacrificed and this will affect the way things will be done going forward," an officer aware of the incident said. "They had also alerted their bosses of the plans to conduct the exercise before it happened.” The eviction was conducted on Christmas Day, prompting protests from residents that lasted two days. One person was later shot dead and three others injured in the chaos. This prompted President Uhuru Kenyatta to make a night visit to the site on December 27 where he met and talked to some residents. “The President was informed some senior government officials had been allocated the land in question and were using police and the road construction issue to evict the residents. He was upset,” added the official. He also ordered that all those who had been evicted from the said piece of land be resettled at the government cost. The following day, the President demanded a report on the issue, which prompted police bosses to ask Nthumbi and Nyamu to go on leave. Nyamu has since been replaced by Masai Makau as the Officer Commanding Police Division. Officials from Internal Affairs Unit are conducting investigations into the incident, and have so far recorded statements from the affected parties. The investigators have received minutes of meetings that ratified the deployment of police and been informed top police commanders were aware of the eviction. Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai said the issue is under investigations. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has summoned a meeting on Tuesday January 4 to discuss the issue. This was after he was informed it was causing murmurs within the service and this will affect police operations at large. Sources said there is a likelihood of seeing more changes both in the service and the National Government Administration officials who were involved. Mutyambai and Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohamed Badi on December 28 visited parts of the slums to quell a standoff over the eviction of residents from the private land. This was a day after the President had made the impromptu visit  accompanied by a local MCA and youths. The President was shown part of the piece of land said to have subdivided and shared among some of his top officials. Demolitions in Mukuru started on October 12, 2021. Residents living along road reserves on Catherine Ndereba Road were asked to vacate with immediate effect as the government commenced demolitions to pave way for construction of the Nairobi Expressway. The affected area will pave way for the construction and expansion of Catherine Ndereba Road. Human rights organisations vowed to institute charges against those involved in the chaos. (edited by Amol Awuor)