High levels of poverty in Gaturi ward, Murang’a county have resulted in an increased health burden that threatens to overwhelm local health facilities. The area is semi-arid and does not have water, both for domestic and irrigation purposes. The challenge is made worse by the fact that the available rivers are far flung and residents are forced to trek long distances in search of water. In November last year, Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company launched a Sh10 million programme that sought to establish water points that sold a jerrycan of water for Sh2. The lack of water has made it impossible for residents to engage in any meaningful agriculture which constrains them financially. Last week, a free medical camp organised by former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau at Gakurwe dispensary saw about 3,000 people turn up for treatment. By 11am on the first day, more than 1,500 people had registered in the two-day camp. The high turn-out shocked the organisers who said they had not experienced such high numbers in the other medical camps they have organised across the county. But the nurse in charge of the dispensary Julian Wanjiru said many of the patients who turned up may have been living with their sicknesses without seeking treatment due to lack of money. Wanjiru said though the area depends on agriculture, lack of water coupled with the erratic rains have condemned residents to abject poverty. She added that the high poverty in turn has resulted in a high rate of morbidity as residents are unable to feed well. Most of the diseases treated at the facility included hypertension, diabetes, arthritis, respiratory tract infections, intestinal worms, mental and skin disorders. “This is a level two hospital which means they come to us first when they fall sick,” she said. Wanjiru further said that water goes hand in hand with good health and that its scarcity compromises hygiene which in turn causes diseases. With the lack of rains, residents are also unable to plant crops such as kale, spinach, tomatoes, carrots and other vegetables which worsens their health status. The nurse said the reduced agricultural activities leaves residents with no money in their pockets, hindering their ability to seek treatment. “Sometimes we come across cases that need to be referred to higher facilities but the patients fail to go because of lack of money,” she added. In other instances, their children do well in school but parents lack the finances to educate them to tertiary levels. Many of the residents suffer from lifestyle diseases because of poverty as some acquire mental issues because of heightened stress. “They cannot keep dairy cows because they are unable to feed them and miss out on the extra income from sale of milk,” she added, saying that alleviation of the extreme poverty would reduce the rate of morbidity. The nurse expressed confidence that provision of water would help boost agricultural activities which would greatly improve living standards in the area. She appealed to residents to ensure they seek treatment early. James Irungu, a resident, urged the government to lower the cost of health care, saying many families suffer due to financial constraints. Irungu said some families in the area have been unable to bury their dead after failing to raise hospital fees. He lauded the organisers of the free medical camp, saying they have helped several residents who are were suffering. Kamau, on his part, underscored the need for counties to put more focus on the health sector which he said is pivotal in the growth of the economy. The former MP said he is opposed to calls by some stakeholders to have the sector reverted back to the national government, saying counties only need to ensure the funds allocated to it are properly utilised. Kamau has organised previous medical camps in Kambirwa, Makuyu and Ithanga, but expressed concerns at the high number of patients that came out for the free services at Gakurwe. “This turn out clearly shows there is a problem with our people. We will continue organising similar camps in Gatanga, Kigumo, Maragua and Kandara. We will be having three or four camps every month,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)