Students interested in pursuing a masters degree in plastic and reconstructive surgery can now apply for full scholarships at the University of Nairobi. The university has partnered with Smile Train International to offer the scholarships. The organisation will provide funding for four learners annually; two from Kenya and two from other countries in Africa. Each resident student will receive Sh2.1 to Sh2.3 million per year plus living expenses. The students are urged to apply on the UoN portal after which they’ll be subjected to interviews. The initiative will help candidates to conduct surgeries on children suffering from cleft clip and palette. Speaking during the signing of the MoU between UoN and Smile Train, vice chancellor Stephen Kiama expressed his commitment to increase access to quality care. The university boss said this initiative will improve the lives of the children suffering from pallet who will receive treatment. “Our support to patients will involve taking cleft surgical services to our local communities as part of giving our scholars an opportunity to connect with and deliver positive impact in the community,” Kiama said. UoN will also receive funding meant to support research in cleft lip and palate. "Smile Train will support the thematic unit of plastic surgery to equip residents with microsurgery technology," Smile Train’s Senior Vice –President of Global Medical Programs Esther Njoroge said this initiative will see an increase in number of surgeons. “The surgeons will be able to provide safe, timely and quality surgery not only to children with clefts but also individuals with other neglected surgical conditions in underserved communities” Njoroge said. The scholarship will be administered through the Department of Surgery and supported by Leading Professor of Plastic Surgery Stanley Khainga. Others are Program Director of the Plastic Surgery Thematic Unit Ferdinand Nangole and others faculty members. The university will receive funds to conduct craniofacial conference once every academic year. “Smile Train will facilitate collaboration between UoN and other institutions to carry out collaborative research,” Njoroge said. According to Smile Train more than 32,000 children are born with a cleft lip annually in Africa. There was a twenty percent increase in patients receiving free cleft treatment between June 2020-June 2021—2,000 more than was anticipated. Njoroge, attributed the increase in treatments to Smile Train’s sustainable model, as well as the resilience and collaboration of Smile Train’s healthcare partners. She underscored the importance of investment in local healthcare professionals who continue to offer treatment through challenging circumstances.