ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru has adopted 370.6575 acres of forest area in Kiganjo Forest Block. Mucheru committed to rehabilitating and restoring the degraded part of Muringato Forest Station in Nyeri county after signing a framework for collaboration with the Kenya Forest Service on Wednesday. The CS will support the restoration of the 370.6575 acres of the forest over a three-year period by providing resources that will be used to rehabilitate the portion. This will be through tree growing while collaborating with the local community through existing Community Forest Associations to implement the process. Kenya Forest Service Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau welcomed the move saying it will go a long way in restoring degraded forests. The CCF appreciated Mucheru for becoming the second individual in the country, after marathon world record holder Eliud Kipchoge, to adopt a forest block. Kamau said the move will complement government efforts towards the achievement of a 10 per cent tree cover. "We welcome other partners to adopt some sections of the degraded forests," Kamau said. The CCF said he is happy about the contributions made so far. Kipchoge, a renowned athlete, recently adopted 123.5525 acres of forest land in the Kaptagat Forest to boost government conservation efforts. For the next five years, Kipchoge, through his foundation, will actively provide the necessary resources for the implementation of the restoration of adopted area. The activities include promoting Kaptagat Forest conservation and management through tree planting, maintenance, protection and conservation. Implementation of the agreed activities in the forest will be coordinated by KFS and the Eliud Kipchoge Foundation. Kaptagat Forest has always been one of the best training grounds for both Kenyan and international athletes of its high altitude of 2,800 meters above sea level. The pristine nature of the forest, which provides clean air and low population density, also makes for a great training ground for long-distance athletes. Restoring the forest with indigenous trees is a way of ensuring the legacy it holds as a perfect training ground stands for many years to come. Kamau said approximately 61,776.25 acres are under adoption. On degradation, Kamau said KFS is currently doing an assessment to establish the extent of the damage. He however said that by 2019, the area degraded was about 1,186,104 acres but this has reduced. The CCF said about 50 partners have adopted forests in various parts of the country. Kamau said last year alone, KFS rehabilitated about 172,973.5 acres. The CCF challenged individuals, corporate entities, NGO’s and citizens to conserve forest through rigorous tree planting activities to ensure the country achieves and maintains the 10 per cent tree cover by 2022. Kamau challenged communities living adjacent to protect the forest as it has always provided clean water, clean air and economic livelihood for them. Mucheru said the need to safeguard the environment for the good of the country compelled his actions to take up the initiative. The CS also pointed to involvement by ICT semi-autonomous government agencies in the promotion of forestry. He cited Konza Technopolis who have established a 400,000-capacity tree nursery which they are expanding for the project's needs to produce up to 10,000,000 million tree seedlings. The CCF also hosted Mucheru on a guided tour of the KFS Forest Information Centre to appreciate the technology input aiding in forest conservation, management and protection. During the discussions, the CCF leveraged support in further strengthening the dynamic telecommunication needs of the service to connect all forest stations in the country. Kamau said most telecommunications masts in the country are installed within KFS jurisdiction.(edited by Amol Awuor)