The mysterious bushfire that engulfed Tsavo National Park in 2020 destroying three per cent of the country's natural resources might strike again. The latest weather forecast by the Kenya Meteorological Department shows Kenya's forests, parks and national reserves are at risk due to dry February weather. “The expected dry conditions may result in dry land and vegetation cover. The public is advised to take caution and avoid activities which are likely to lead to the occurrence of wildfires in forests, parks and game reserves,” the Meteorological Department said. The department has urged the Ministry of Environment and other stakeholders to take into consideration the likelihood of fires and put in place measures to conserve the environment. In 2020, huge fires engulfed Tsavo National Park in what authorities said was a result of negligence and drought. Ecologists said the mysterious bushfires that ravaged the Tsavo Conservation Area caused more harm than good to the biodiversity. They said the fires may have killed animals, birds, rodents and invertebrates - all of which are important to the ecosystem. Herdsmen, honey harvesters and charcoal dealers were blamed. The ecologist said without snakes, rodents can easily spread diseases to people living near Tsavo. Tsavo ecosystem which covers more than five million acres is the largest protected complex in Kenya with more than four per cent of the country's landmass. It consists of Tsavo East, Tsavo West, Chyulu Hills and South Kitui reserve. As fire spreads, animals move to secure territories, where they can interact with people. Carnivores too move closer to the people, causing conflict. The forecast said conflicts associated with scarce resources are set to reach a crescendo as a result of dry conditions expected in the month of February, the weather forecast has shown. The weatherman in the latest forecast says that the expected sunny and dry conditions will acerbate the drought conditions especially in the northern part of the country. This, the forecast shows is likely to lead to further reduction of in pasture and fodder for wildlife and livestock, especially in ASAL regions. “It is also likely to lead to a further shortage of drinking water for humans, livestock and wildlife and may result in human-to-human and human-to-wildlife conflict,” the forecast shows. Already, 2.8 million Kenyans do not have food even as the government says no one has lost their life. Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna on Monday said nobody has lost their life. "There is no single life lost. We have however lost livestock," Oguna said in a phone interview. Estimates indicate that 1.4 million livestock have so far been lost. Oguna said the government had put interventions in place which include cash transfers saying the move allows those affected to chose what they want to eat. "Government found it wise to give cash that goes directly to their phones," Oguna said. He could not however state how much money has so far been sent to the beneficiaries. On January 24, Public Service CS Margaret Kobia said that at least 2.5 million Kenyans are in dire need of relief food due to the drought situation in the country. The CS said the prolonged lack of rains in several parts of the country, especially the arid and semi-arid lands counties, has pushed many Kenyans to the jaws of hunger. The CS said the government is taking appropriate measures to ensure no Kenyan dies of hunger. Kobia said counties like Marsabit, Wajir, Moyale, Garissa, Turkana, Baringo, Samburu, Tana River and Isiolo have been worst hit by the drought. The CS said some of the interventions the government has made include the release of Sh8.5 billion this month towards vulnerable families through the Inua Jamii programme. During droughts, conflicts from within communities spike over scarce resources such as water and pasture. Wildlife has not been spared as reports indicate hundreds could have died. Human-Wildlife conflicts have also escalated in some areas due to competition for scarce resources. The forecast urges the Ministry of Interior and humanitarian institutions to put in place measures to avert negative impacts that may arise. The forecast also shows that the dry conditions coupled with high temperatures will lead to further reduction of water in rivers and dams. In ASAL areas, the forecast encourages residents to conserve water, while areas expected to receive occasional rains are also urged to practice water harvesting to harness rainwater. The forecast showed that the dry conditions are likely to negatively impact hydropower generation. It showed the expected temperature in most parts of the country may cause heat stress and heat-related discomforts. “The public is therefore urged to hydrate appropriately,” it says. The forecast showed that dusty conditions are expected during the month, providing favourable conditions for the spread of respiratory diseases. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)