Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has flagged off medical equipment worth Sh15 million for distribution to health facilities in the county. Nyong'o said the equipment seeks to improve safe motherhood in primary healthcare facilities in seven subcounties. The governor said the equipment will support health centres and dispensaries. They were bought through a World Bank grant—Transforming Health Systems-Universal Care Project. The items include modern adjustable delivery beds and mackintosh mattresses, adjustable maternity beds, examination lamps, caesarean section kits, autoclave machines, blood pressure machines and thermogenic among others. “This equipment will go a long way in ensuring the safety of our womenfolk in the villages. “We believe that if fully implemented and executed, these will be a great addition to the health systems,” Nyong’o said. Other ongoing activities under the same programme include healthcare worker capacity building, mentorship, strengthening infection prevention and control. Nyong’o also toured the Emergency Operations Centre domiciled at the facility, saying it has handled 2,885 referrals across the county over the last six months. The governor said he was impressed by the plans the health department has to transform the emergency response space in Kisumu  and to be an information hub in the county. He lauded the department and pledged support as they expand the EOC in anticipation of the Africities’ Summit that will be held in the county later this year. Nyong’o also acknowledged support from implementing partners —Global Implementation Solutions and Centres for Disease Control and Prevention— that support the EOC activities through technical and material resources. He assured residents of his administration's commitment to improve healthcare and ensure people get the best services. Nyong’o further urged medics to take good care of the equipment and drugs under their care. “I want to see them accounting for every single piece of equipment supplied to the facilities,” he said. The governor warned that he will not hesitate to order disciplinary action against any officer who fails to account for drugs or equipment meant for the public. He spoke during the inspection of newly implemented and ongoing projects at the Kisumu county referral hospital and handing over of medical equipment to subcounty hospitals on Tuesday. Nyong’o said the referral hospital has recorded a significant improvement in service delivery and installation of new generator. The 300 Kva installed generator worth Sh8 million is an upgrade from the 83 Kva generator. Nyong’o said the old generator will be transferred to a smaller upcoming hospital. “This referral hospital, one of the oldest in Nyanza, is important because of its central location near the Kisumu central business district,” he said. Over the years, the hospital has helped to decongest the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. “Before November last year, the radiology department, laundry, and the central sterilisation unit in the hospital could not function when there was a blackout. But the hospital now has an uninterrupted power supply,” Nyong’o said. The governor also inspected the upgraded oxygen manifold and piping of oxygen that allows the hospital more space to admit clients requiring oxygen. “We have also seen a new administration block built at Sh12 million and a comprehensive mother and baby maternity wing completed at Sh18 million.  Both facilities are completed and occupied,” he said. He said the hospital has also installed Sh1.8 million new washing machine and dryer. In addition to the infrastructure, the county government has increased the number of specialists in the hospital by adding two gynaecologists and one paediatrician. “As we seek to improve the services of our two major hospitals in Kisumu town, we are also improving the level of services offered in all our subcounties,” Nyong’o added. He dismissed what he termed as misplaced narrative by some politicians, that his administration is over-concentrating its development project in Kisumu city. “The truth is that we are more robust in the subcounties and there is a lot of work going on there, especially on health, infrastructure, water provision and agriculture,” Nyong’o said. He said, for instance, the county is constructing operating theatres in Gita Subcounty Hospital in Kisumu East, Chulaimbo Subcounty Hospital in Kisumu West and Seme Subcounty Hospital. The projects are almost complete and will be equipped and opened this financial year, Nyong’o added. In Nyakach subcounty, he said the construction of a maternity wing complete with an operating theatre is set to start. The contract has been awarded and the site handover will be done in two weeks. “As we aim to prevent maternal mortality in keeping with Sustainable Development Goal 3, the importance of safe delivery cannot be underestimated,” Nyong’o said. Currently, 87.5 per cent of the women of reproductive age in Kisumu deliver in health facilities. This, he said, was a great improvement from 69 per cent and 80 per cent in the years 2019 and 2020 respectively and they continue to invest in more facilities to meet the rising demand. In the last financial year, Nyong’o said the county completed seven new health centres and dispensaries of which his government approved the recruitment of medical personnel to operationalise. “These jobs were advertised in December last year.”    -Edited by SKanyara