National women’s football team defender Sharon Aluoch says she will maximise her scholarship from the University of ThunderBird School of Global Management to acquaint herself thoroughly with financial management. The Harambee Starlets’ centre back was among 100 sportspersons — 60 men and 40 women — who were awarded scholarships by the Ministry of Sports to enable them use their finances prudently. Aluoch expressed hope it will be an eye-opener for her and a life-changing experience. “I think it was a good idea to extend it beyond individual sports and consider those of us engaged in team sports. I hope the scholarship will open up my mind on financial management and empower me for a life after football,” the Gaspo defender said. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries will be enlightened on critical financial issues to avoid wasting away their winnings and ending up in squalor conditions. Also included in the scholarship plan include two-time Olympic 1500m champion Faith Kipyegon, paralympian Wesley Sang, Tong-Il Moo-Do athlete Salma Ali, beach volleyballer  Brackcides Agala and David Sangkok. Aluoch’s twin sister and Starlets’ teammate Vivian Akinyi and Karateka Joslyne Nyakoa are also beneficiaries Speaking at the ongoing Agnes Tirop Conference in Diani, Kwale, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said more sportspersons will benefit from the scholarships in the near future. “This is just the beginning. We want to do more so many more sportspersons can benefit from the scholarships. We are grateful to the Thunderbird University for agreeing to partner with us in this noble initiative,” Amina said. The three-day conference has been convened to deliberate on a report by the Sports Committee on Gender and Welfare, which explored the lack of inclusivity and gender in the Kenyan sports industry. At the end of the conference, it is expected that participants will come up with solutions to fill the gender gaps witnessed in sports as far as remuneration, management and coaching is concerned. Poor financial management has been an Achilles heel for many sportspersons who live from hand to mouth despite raking in a lot of money in their active years.