LG Electronics (LG) is about to make life in the kitchen easier than ever with the introduction of its latest cooking appliances, LG InstaView Double Oven Range and Over-the-Range Microwave Oven. Featuring the company's core cooking technologies, these premium appliances are the first to offer seamless integration with the new LG ThinQ. The Double Oven Range features LG InstaView technology that lets users see inside the appliance by simply knocking twice on the glass. This illuminates the interior without having to open the door and letting hot air escape. A complete cooking solution for today's homes, both products are making their debut at CES 2022 next week. Then the new oven range LG's ProBake Convection technology for quick and thorough cooking without preheating to deliver delicious, evenly-cooked meals every time. With its precise temperature and airflow control, ProBake provides shorter cooking times and is also the key ingredient in the oven's Air Fry and Air Sous Vide modes. Air Fry allows cooks to create delectable, crispy fried treats using far less oil than deep frying while Air Sous Vide ensures tender, juicy dishes that will keep diners wanting more. And delicious doesn't mean having to wait longer, thanks to LG's Ultra Heat Power Burner technology. LG Over-the-Range Microwave Oven, employs proprietary Steam Cook technology to prepare foods that are juicier, healthier and tastier. The Slide-out ExtendaVent in this premium microwave is effective in reducing the presence of smoke and lingering odours in the kitchen. And with its easy to clean interior, thanks to the advanced coating; It allows easy clean up with only a damp cloth and prevents food and grease from sticking LG's minimalist design language is perfectly exemplified in the stainless steel and tempered glass of LG Wide View Window. The ThinQ app offers a seamless journey that allows anyone to search, plan, purchase and cook, following hundreds of easy-to-follow recipes including mouth-watering options from talented creators. The app also integrates LG's time-saving Scan to Cook feature, for scan-and-send cooking directions for select frozen meals. Using artificial intelligence and deep learning technology to analyze product performance data, Proactive Customer Care can send users helpful alerts and maintenance tips to keep their LG ovens running optimally year after year. According to the LG website, the price of the oven will range from $1,699.01 while the microwave will range from $389.00 