Deputy President William Ruto has yet again apologised to Kenyans following Meru Senator Mithika Linturi's madoadoa remarks that sparked the wrath of a section of Kenyans. While speaking at a rally on Monday in Kericho County, the DP lauded Linturi for apologizing and challenged other leaders who have made such statements to follow suit. At the same time, the DP, who spoke at Moi Gardens Stadium,  cautioned members of his team to tame their tongues and avoid remarks that may lead to divisions. “I want to apologise as the leader of this team. All our team members, the UDA party members, and followers, are asked to be careful with their language. “We are going to be a decent party, we are going to be an organized party, we are going to be a democratic party. We are also going to respect the democratic choices of others. We are going to allow our competitors to come and speak to our voters,” Ruto said. His comments come as UDA welcomed the Directorate of Public Prosecution’s (DPP) to probe Linturi’s over the remarks that he made at the party’s rally in Eldoret on Saturday. On Monday, through a statement, the party called for the investigation and prosecution of 'well known' politicians linked to previous "madoadoa" remarks. "For this reason, the party further calls on law enforcement agencies to exercise similar vigilance and bring to book other well-known political actors who in recent past have used the term madoadoa and other disparaging terms to mobilise support for political causes," UDA said in a statement. The party said in a statement that it will be presenting to the Director of Public Prosecutions a list of such politicians for legal action to ensure equal application of the law. The DP also challenged ODM leader to stop sponsoring violence whenever leaders go for campaigns in ODM zones, and that he should apologise following recent attacks of his opponents in zones alleged to be ODM strongholds. "Kisumu belongs to everyone in this country we should not be stoned and the gentleman is just quiet," Ruto said. In November last year, Ruto’s motorcade was stoned in Kondele, Kisumu County after what police said was caused by a disagreement in the distribution of campaign funds. “Kisumu should not be a no-go zone for leaders," Earlier during the rally in Bomet, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen also apologized to the public.