Leaders should help the electoral body in mobilising eligible voters to enlist before the second enhanced voter registration exercise ends. These were the words of Garissa election manager Hussein Gurre who spoke at a press briefing in his office on Wednesday. He said the political class played a vital role during the first enhanced continuous voter registration exercise conducted between October 4 and November 5, 2021. Gurre said Garissa county came in second with 50 per cent after Turkana which recorded over 63 per cent. Countrywide over 5.2 million eligible Kenyans enroled as new voters. “We have not seen much mobilisation in this second phase from our political leaders. "While some of them may not be contesting in the coming election, I believe they can still help us register as many as possible through mobilisation,” Gurre said The official also urged the media to help disseminate information on the exercise. "Our civil societies and even the religious leaders in mosques and churches should also educate their faithfuls to register as voters,” he added The exercise is expected to conclude in two weeks. Gurre said Lagdera constituency had recorded very low voter turnout. This he attributed to drought, which forced some eligible voters to move to neighbouring subcounties and countries in search of water and pasture. Gurre said although some of the herders have not returned, constituency returning officers have mapped out where they are located and kits will be dispatched to register them. “Drought is still ongoing in Lagdera. People are still returning from other areas, some crossing borders from Somalia where they had gone due to drought. We have however put measures in place to register them from where they are,” he said The official however regretted voter apathy among the youth who claim not to see the benefits of voting. “I want to remind the people of Garissa and especially the youth that the only weapon they have to set their agenda and make sure its implemented is the voting card. Do not let a chance to make the right decision pass,” Gurre said. Garissa county had registered 3,008 people as of January 24 translating to about 10.4 per cent of the targeted 28,941 eligible voters. The IEBC targets to register 4.5 million new voters who were left out in the first phase. Last week Garissa Township MP Aden Duale made a clarion call to residents of pastoralist counties to use the second window of voter registration to enlist. Speaking at a function in Garissa town, Duale said all eligible voters should show up at registration centres and have their details captured so that they can participate in the August general election. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)