Many African countries are leading the world in finding solutions to plastic pollution through legislative mechanisms. Nearly five years ago in August 2017, Kenya issued a ban on single-use plastic bags. A ban which NEMA said last week was 95 per cent successful. “We have managed plastic carrier bags quite well with the support of other government agencies," director general Mamo B Mamo said on Wednesday. PP woven and non-woven bags are versatile, strong, recyclable, and they have a surprisingly low environmental impact on plastic material. However, Kenyans have looked for alternative ways of using those woven carrier bags. Before, a section of Kenyans would put plastic bags inside a bin to hold waste from food remains and trash in order to keep the container clean. Now, some have replaced that with the woven  bags A good number of Kenyans have converted carrier bags into bathing tools. James Maina, 34, told the Star on Thursday that once he started using the carrier bags to bathe, he never looked back. “Bathing towels are so expensive nowadays, one goes for S.200. Also, where I stay you hang one to air dry and it's stolen come the next day,” Maina said. “One time, I got tired of buying them and looked for this other alternative.” A few women and men have confessed to either using or wanting to use the carrier bags for household cleaning. They said they used the smaller carrier bags that go for Sh10 or Sh20, to either clean the utensils or wipe down dusty windows and tables. The bags are also being used to store household items like clothes, documents and paper works, extra hair from the salon or wigs or utensils. Some use it to carry ‘miraa’ or ‘muguka’ leaves when on the move. Since they are recyclable and reusable, these bags are very convenient. To cover various holes in the house corners or broken windows, some people are using carrier bags to prevent foreign things from intruding on their privacy. When cut into smaller stripes, these bags can be used to tie sacks, an alternative to ropes. To make masks Meltblown polypropylene is used as the middle layer of many certified medical masks and in the manufacture of respirators such as N95 because it filters very well So, what are the other alternative ways you are using these bags?