Cliff Owuor has replaced Liz Mills as Kenya Morans coach ahead of next month's  FIBA Basketball World Cup 2023 Qualifiers slated for Dakar, Senegal. The Kigali-based tactician, who handles APR of Rwanda, will be assisted by Thunder's Sadat Gaya. He returns to the team he coached at the FIBA AfroBasket qualifying first window in 2020. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) secretary Ambrose Kisoi, while naming the team on Sunday, said local-based players will start training at Nyayo Stadium next week. Kisoi said that Australian Mills and Cameroonian Abel Nson, who handled the team during the AfroBasket Championship in Rwanda had done their job. "We engaged them to take charge of the team during the AfroBasket championships and we have now recalled Owuor for the next tournament," Kisoi explained. Other than four new players from the diaspora and two local-based compatriots, the rest of the team have been retained in the provisional list of 20 players. The new additions include Orion Onyango (USA), Tony Maina (Beijing China) and Sammy Opel (UAE) while Emyba's Eugene Adera also made the team. Kenya are in Group D and will face DR Congo,  Egypt and hosts Senegal. The three-day tournament will take place at the newly-built Dakar Arena from February 25-27. Competing in Group B are Cameroon, Rwanda, South Sudan and reigning African champions Tunisia. The first window of the qualifiers was held in November 2021 in Benguela, Angola. The FIBA Basketball World Cup 2023 will be co-hosted by Indonesia, Japan and the Philippines. Squad KBF players: Griffin Ligare, (Thunder), Eric Mutoro, Valentine Nyakinda, Victor Bosire, Joseph Khaemba (Ulinzi Warriors), Eugene Adera (Emyba), Victor Ochieng, Faheem Juma (Equity Bank), Job Byron ( KPA). Diaspora-based: Orion Onyango, Albert Odero (USA) Preston Bungei, Desmond Owili (Melbourne Australia), Tylor Okari (Bakken Bears Denmark),  Tony Maina (Beijing China), Sammy Opel (UAE), Ariel.Okal (Dhofar, Oman),, Fidel Okoth (Nirzwa Oman), Bush Wamukota (Patriots Rwanda)  and Joel Awich (Azrieux France).