Soups are versatile and unlike most meals they can be served at any time of the day. Depending on the one you choose most of them are loaded with nutritious flavours and a ton of healthy benefits. Not only is this soup an amazing  remedy for colds and flu, it is also an appetizer and can be served as a starter. The best part is that it is easy to prepare and takes less than 30 minutes yet it is filling and healthy as well. It has a delicate texture and is quite flavourful. If you're not a huge fan of raw garlic because of pungent nature fear not the cooked garlic looses that sharpness. Ingredients Note: you can use natural yoghurt if don't have Greek yoghurt. Method Peel and slice the garlic, add a know of butter and a teaspoon of olive oil to a pan, add the garlic and sauté for one minute. Make sure not to cook the garlic for longer, as they can easily  brown and become bitter. Peel and cube the potatoes then wash and drain them then set aside. Wash and chop the celery stick then add them together with the potatoes to a hollow/ large cooking pan together with 3 cups of vegetable broth or enough to cover the potatoes. Note: The amount of liquid you use can be more of less, depending on how thick you want the soup. Cover the pan with a lid and cook on medium heat for about 15-20 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. You can use a fork to check them. Take off heat and allow a minute to cool Add everything to a blender, and blend until smooth. Add the Greek yoghurt and stir gently, season with salt and  black pepper(if you want your soup spicy) then garnish with parsley.  Note: It’s important to have the yoghurt (cream, sour cream or anything else you add) at room temperature before adding to a hot soup. Keep in mind even if it curdles, the taste will still be good, however the texture won’t be as nice and smooth. That is why it is important to temper the yoghurt first. This is accomplished by adding a spoonful of hot liquid to the yoghurt, mixing it well, then add a few more until the yoghurt is warm. This way, when it’s added to the soup, the texture won’t change, and the soup will be creamy and smooth. Serve hot and enjoy either on its own or with croutons.  Edited by CM