UDA has formally written to the ICC over "state-sponsored violence" ahead of August elections. In a letter addressed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and copied to the ICC prosecutor on January 17, UDA said they are concerned about recent "deeply worrying security" incidents. UDA's Secretary General Veronica Maina said the incidents are sustained by official "inaction and connivance" by the state. Maina said this in connection to the Jacaranda chaos. During the chaos over the weekend, Deputy President William Ruto's Jacaranda rally was faced with hooliganism after rowdy youths hurled stones at the meeting. The incident did not interrupt the DP's meeting as the rally went on as planned. "It has become a abundantly clear that the goons were encouraged and facilitated to prevent the event from taking place in keeping with firm bedroom policy of using violence," Maina said. "This disastrous practice is an official policy in ODM and has been implemented over the years to suppress democratic competition, at horrendous cost to innocent Kenyans." Maina said as a general rule, nothing has been done by the security agencies to prevent or arrest this "egregious criminality". "In the handshake era, ODM's bedroom policy and the use of violence to advance political strategies appear to receive tacit official support," she said. Maina claims that up to date over 10 major criminal incidents of violent disruption have taken place. Out of this, at least six have been brought to the attention of the IG of police. The six include chaos on September 2 in Kisii, Murang'a October 4, Taita Taveta chaos in August 24, 2021, Kondele, Busia, and Nyeri chaos. “They have all gone unattended by his office. This negligence on their part Is not only dismaying to all law abiding Kenyans and disappointing to the UDA fraternity but it also explicitly signals the states approval,” she said. “… or support for the criminal acts of ethnic and political violence conducted in furtherance of a divisive agenda obviously focused on the 2022 elections." UDA demanded an assurance from the president that Kenyan lives and property remain protected under the law. "...and that the instruments of state and security apparatus will not be deployed in a partisan manner or to cause mayhem and deaths to propel a preferred candidate to victory."