Residents of Fafi subcounty have been urged to guard the peace they currently enjoy to spur development. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana emphasised the need to remain vigilant and maintain security. The area has in the past witnessed several attacks on security officers and the destruction of masts by al Shabaab militants. Ndalana said the residents were responsible for growing the subcounty and making it vibrant. He spoke on Monday during the opening of the subcouty headquarters for the newly inaugurated Fafi subcounty in Alinjugur, Garissa. The subcounty administration headed by deputy county commissioner Robert Ngetich will be responsible for the coordination, management and supervision of government services. Ndalana said a close working relationship between the residents and the security apparatus will ensure the enhancement of security. “Without security, you will not make any development progress. Let us, therefore, work together,” he said. Garissa Governor Ali Korane said the creation of the subcounty will bring services closer to the people. “I thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for the creation of administrative units, this will improve security in the region. I appeal to him to fast track the gazetting of Sankuri to a subcounty,” Korane said. He said his administration will operationalise all subcounty offices for all county departments. Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji who was the chief guest called on security agencies to build a good rapport with residents by treating sensitive information with confidentiality. The DPP emphasised the need to use the new administrative areas to spur growth, development and service delivery to the people. “This can only be achieved if there is maximum cooperation from all stakeholders,” he said. MP Abdikarim Osman said the creation of the new subcounty, will directly benefit residents in the recruitment and deployment of national and county officers. Abdi Aden a resident thanked the national government for elevating the area. He appealed to the state to avail all government services to the residents. Other leaders present were, Garissa Deputy Governor, Abdi Dakane, MPs Mohammed Dahiye( Daadab), Abdi Omar (Balambala), Anab Gure (Garissa Woman Rep), Senator Farhiya Haji Ali (Nominated), former Garissa Governor Nathif Jama, Mohammed Shidiye and some MCAs. Edited by Kiilu Damaris