Youth Enterprise Development Fund has identified 15 youth groups in Homa Bay to grow black soldier flies for poultry production and fish farming. YEDF has supported them with Sh100,000 loan capital for the project. They will sell the flies to farmers and earn income. The youth should pay the money in one year to enable other groups to benefit. The government wants Homa Bay youths to engage in the mass production of insects as it plans to cascade the programme in other counties. YEDF senior commercial infrastructure officer Daniel Kimunya Mathenge said the government identified the project as a potential source of income. Mathenge urged more youths to form groups and engage in such projects. “Homa Bay is among counties where there is low uptake of loans. But I urge youths to register in groups and get government support for economic empowerment,” Mathenge said. The black soldier fly is an insect that offers food for poultry and fish. Insect farming is gaining popularity among farmers who want to reduce the cost of production, to get an alternative source of food for fish and poultry. The fly has different stages of growth. The larvae stage is rich in protein and fats and can be used in animal feed formulations for poultry and aquaculture diets. Speaking at Got Asego village in Homa Bay on Monday, Mathenge said their technical team is on the ground to assist farmers on how to grow the insects. “The team guides them on how to build a structure, quality of feed for the insects and help them look for markets, insect production is done in an environmentally friendly area and is profitable to farmers,” he said. Homa Bay is near Lake Victoria where fishing activities such as cage fishing takes place and has favourable weather conditions for insect production.” Homa Bay Nema director Josiah Nyandoro and youth chief officer Moses Buriri said the insects can feed on organic wastes and help to protect the environment. Nyandoro asked youths to engage in initiatives that promote environmental conservation. “Everyone has to conserve the environment. The government supports projects that make good use of waste,” Nyadoro said. Buriri said the project encourages engagement among the youths, a profitable venture that should be adopted. Edited by Kiilu Damaris