Days after ditching Deputy President William Ruto's camp, Kirinyaga County woman representative Purity Wangui Ngirici has removed the UDA party symbols from a building she had donated to serve as the party's county office. The Star has established that her Kerugoya-based private office gate wall, which was previously branded with the UDA party’s yellow and green colours, logo and slogan, has now been repainted in white colour. Prior to the office being converted into UDA party county head office, it housed activities relating to the Citizens’ Convectional Party (CCP) that was previously associated with the politician. The Kirinyaga woman rep also peeled off UDA banners and posters from her campaign truck, mini-vehicles and sound system truck. In November last year, Wangui through her social media page unveiled her campaign trucks, all branded with UDA party symbols, in a post that was captioned ‘Kwani ni Kesho’ Ngirici, however, made an about-turn on her support for DP Ruto in late December last year, months after the entry of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru to the UDA party. Waiguru, who appears to enjoy close ties with UDA party members and officials, complicated Ngirici's chances in the party forcing her to quit. While announcing her departure from the party, the County MP said she was afraid of being rigged out adding that she is certain that the party primaries will not be free and fair. She also claimed that UDA party officials tried to coerce her into vying for a parliamentary seat and leave the gubernatorial post for Waiguru who is seeking her second term. "I'm not afraid to face anyone in the nominations but my truth is the exercise will not be fair as the party has already made its decision," she said. "Moving on, I have made a decision that my name will still be on the ballot as a gubernatorial candidate. Rather than channelling much of my funds to these political parties like last polls, I would rather spend it with my people on the ground." UDA party secretary-general Veronica Maina, however, denied the allegations and said the UDA party believes in democracy and cannot, therefore, force a candidate to pursue a course he or she has not desired. Ngirici seems determined to clinch the gubernatorial seat judging by the campaign machinery she has unveiled ahead of the August polls. The aspirant has posted her campaign portrait on a billboard erected in Kutus town with a source informing the Star that the same will be replicated across the county soon. Waiguru is yet to respond to the developments but, in November, she told off Ngirici for being possessive of the UDA party saying the outfit does not belong to her. She urged all players to ready themselves for a fair and square battle at the party primaries. -Edited by B.Marita