Nyeri Governor Muitahi Kahiga has reinstated one of the executives sent on compulsory leave three months ago. Beth Karimi, who served as Public Service and Sanitation executive, was sent on 45 days leave alongside her Health counterpart, Rachel Kamau in October to allegedly take rest and recharge. Kamau has since been dropped. Kahiga reinstated Karimi following the resignation of the Health executive Kwai Wanjaria. Wanjaria, a gynecologist by training, has resigned to pursue personal interests. Kahiga advertised the posts of the two executives, Karimi and Kamau, about 90 days after sending them on leave, an indication that the two had been relieved of their duties. The county ran the advertisement on local dailies and on its website and social media platforms. The applications were to be submitted to the governor on or before 7 January, 2022. Announcing the reorganisation of his cabinet on Wednesday, Kahiga said Karimi will take over the Lands and Physical Planning department, which was earlier held by Kwai before he was moved to the Health docket. The substantive Finance executive Robert Thuo will take over the Health department left by Wanjaria in an acting capacity until a person to substantially fill the position is recruited. “Margaret Macharia remains in an acting capacity in the docket of Public Service and Sanitation, while still holding her substantive position as the CEC Education and Sports,” the governor said. Kahiga also announced changes in the Lands and Physical Planning department, where the substantive chief officer Hannah Maranga rejoined the Kiambu county where she had come from. Maranga was Kiambu county Lands director government and was in Nyeri as a chief officer on secondment, according to Kahiga. Her place has been taken by Beatrice Koech in an acting capacity until the position is filled. Karimi and Koech are expected to oversee the challenging transition of hawkers from Nyeri town streets to the Nyeri main bus terminus at around March this year. “To both waziri Beth and Beatrice (Koech), I remind them that the Asian quarters bus park is the next major thing on their desk,” he said. “The completion and the transfer of the existing bus stages and traders to the new bus park must be given priority and dealt with expeditiously while ensuring a smooth and seamless rollover,” he said. To this end, Kahiga said the Health chief officer Adan Aden, who has vast experience in dealing with traders, will remain a key and focal person in the exercise. Aden was involved in the transfer of traders in both Karatina and Chaka markets, which Kahiga said was done smoothly and successfully.  (edited by Amol Awuor)