Private schools have appealed to the government to offer the grants or cheap loans to develop their facilities. Former Kenya Private Schools Association treasurer George Mudanyi said they should be given loans at low interest to build better structures for learners. “All we are appealing for is for the government in the arrangements that they are having for public institutions to consider us by giving us grants. It will be for the benefit of Kenyan children,” he said. Mudanyi, the Mudasa Group of Schools chairman, said private schools complement the government in providing education. He spoke during the homecoming party for new Kepsa chairman and founder of Golden Elite Schools Charles Ochome in Kisumu on Friday. Mudanyi said they fully support the Competency Based Curriculum, noting that they are good planners save for the challenges they had during Covid -19 pandemic. The investor noted that most of the private schools have been struggling to ensure to implement the 100 per cent transition policy. He urged the government to extend capitation to private schools. “We have talked about capitation for a very long time. If they extend capitation to every child no matter whether that child is in public or private schools it is for their own benefit,” Mudanyi said. The Vihiga county private schools association chairman said the right to education of a child is enshrined in the Constitution. Mudanyi said the state should consider giving them funds. Currently, capitation is only given to learners in public schools. He said the funding should be allocated to every child regardless of whether they are in a private or public school. He said the government had not come out clearly on capitation, which he termed vital to schools for the development of children. Mudanyi said private schools are ready to admit more learners if the government provides capitation. He noted that capitation to private institutions would help decongest public schools across the country. “It would encourage many more people to invest in private schools. As you’re aware most private schools are not overpopulated hence they give better service to Kenyan children,” Mudanyi said. Based on information on public domain, especially from children, he said public schools are congested and private schools can help the situation. “We have heard of students who say they go without meals and nobody really cares. Such things could be because of the problems in the public sector,” Mudanyi said. The best thing to do is for the government to extend capitation to private institutions to ensure there is a good balance in the education sector, he said. He said they are ready to a smooth transition to junior secondary school. Mudanyi said they are strong supporters of CBC and have prepared adequately for admissions. “Right now we have structures ready to take in children for junior secondary. I know more schools that are well established are prepared,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori