@ppcheti The Mkunumbi-Mpeketoni-Kibaoni loop road contractor in Lamu is demanding Sh1.3 billion payment arrears to complete the stalled project. The project has stalled for over one month. The 19-kilometre road project is national government funded through the stewardship of the Kenya National Highways Authority and is being undertaken by the H-Young (EA) Limited company. Speaking on Friday, company regional project manager David Sharvit urged the government to expedite his dues to enable the progression of the remaining part of the loop roads. He said they have been forced to stop the project halfway as it has become difficult to work without money. “The government owes us Sh1.3 billion in arrears. We haven’t received any payment since July last year. Let them pay us so we can finish up,” Sharvit said. The contractor has however achieved completion of about 10 kilometres out of the 19 kilometres for the entire loop road. The project is part of the Sh10.8 billion Lamu-Witu-Garsen road project which is about 132 kilometres in total. The project comprises the 113-kilometre-long main route from Garsen to Lamu which was completed and opened by President Uhuru Kenyatta on May 20 last year. It incorporates the Witu Town Bypass and Witu Town roads whose works are complete. “We have completed the Kibaoni-Mpeketoni section but can’t work on the Mpeketoni-Mkunumbi section until payment is effected. There is no work ongoing on the road right now,” he said. Kenha assistant director and head of communications Charles Njogu dismissed claims, the project had slowed down due to delayed payment to the contractor. Njogu blamed the security situation in Lamu and the ongoing curfew as the major reasons behind the project’s delay. “I am not aware of arrears, and most definitely if they were there, it would be a matter between the employer and the contractor, without your involvement as a third party,” Njogu said. “Work slowed down due to the security situation on the ground. There is a curfew and we had an incident at Nyongoro recently.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris