Most times when you visit the hospital, get treated and are handed your medication, most of those medicines are usually pills. Now, pills are a hustle to swallow and many people have a hard time taking them. The after taste in your mouth is quite annoying and that's how so many things have been invented to help. If you were raised in an African setting, you will bear witness that our mothers always insisted on taking pills with porridge. "It will be easier to swallow if you take the pills with porridge, plus it's healthy," this is what our mothers advised and still swear by. The most advised way to swallow your pills is to take them with water because of their purity and does not contain anything that might react to you or delay the effectiveness of the medicine. Since water and porridge are commonly used, what about milk? ANTIBIOTICS Well, taking your pills with any dairy products is not advised especially if you are taking antibiotics. Antibiotics, also known as antibacterials, are medications that slow down or destroy the growth of bacteria. Now, taking your antibiotics with milk or any dairy product can prevent some medications from being properly absorbed into your body. Dairy products contain large amounts of calcium, which can react with some medications, which in turn prevents gut absorption. According to Everyday Health, in order for oral antibiotics to be effective, they must be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, make their way into the bloodstream, and be delivered to the infected area. "Many factors influence the body’s ability to accomplish this feat, including the relative acidity of the stomach, the presence of fat or other nutrients in the stomach, and whether certain elements such as calcium are present," Everyday Health states. There are meds that can be taken during meals, before or after meals, hence why it is important for you to follow the doctor's instructions to the letter. It is important to note that some drugs in the family of antibiotics containing tetracycline can react with the milk. Edited by D Tarus