For an athletics calendar that was quite packed, 2021 must have felt underwhelming for cross country enthusiasts as few of such events were held at the international level. Things are looking up in 2022 as the busy cross country period kicks off this weekend with a number of competitions at the regional level to select competitors at the national cross country championship on January 22 in Eldoret. The Kenya Defence Forces and the National Police Service will hold their trials on Friday morning followed by Kenya Prisons Service, the universities, and various regions on Saturday. Cross country is usually the curtain-raiser to a packed athletics calendar in Kenya and internationally. The current season began in October with the AK Cross Country Weekend Meetings in Machakos, Iten, Kapsokwony, and Ol Kalou. Biggest event However, the biggest cross country event for Kenya and worldwide is the Agnes Tirop Memorial World Cross Country Tour Gold to be held on February 12 at Kapseret, Eldoret. The race has been named after 2015 World Cross Country champion Agnes Tirop who was found murdered last October at her home in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County. The cross country tours are a series of one-day invitational races organised and categorised by World Athletics into gold, silver, and bronze. Apart from Eldoret, similar competitions will be held in Cardiff (Wales), Amorebieta-Extano (Spain), San Vittore Olona (Italy), Hannut (Belgium), Serradila (Spain), and Dundoland (Northern Ireland), among others. Speaking during the media launch of the Kenyan leg, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said the event is evidence that the world recognises the country as a sports destination. This Tour is in recognition of our status as an athletics powerhouse. World Athletics have always been supportive of our country and we have been able to host major athletics events, such as Kip Keino Classic and the World Under 20," Amina said. Considering Tirop is the second-youngest athlete to ever win a world cross country title, Amina feels naming the event after her will pass a strong message that athletes hold a central place in Kenya. "This Tour is about remembering Agnes' tenacity and her patriotism. That is why we have to celebrate her achievements on and off the track. It is about passing a message about the high value we place on our athletes," the CS said. Echoing her sentiments, Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei says the event is an ode to Kenya's status as a powerhouse in the cross country having provided legends such as five-time and four-time world champions, Paul Tergat and John Ngugi respectively. "We are glad that we were offered the opportunity to host this event. Having sat down to discuss the preparations, we thought it best to take it to the epicentre of Kenyan athletics that is Eldoret. Kenya is quite renowned for producing the best long-distance runners in the world and it was only fair to take it there," Tuwei says. Top of the stellar start list for the event is the 2019 World Cross Country bronze medallist, Ethiopian Letesenbet Gidey, who holds the world record for the women's 5000m and 10,000m. Also competing is three-time world half-marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor who says the tour will magnify Kenya's image as an athletics powerhouse and destination. "It will be a privilege competing with runners from other countries. It is quite appropriate that it has been named after Agnes who was one of my close friends. I look forward to running in remembrance of her and to advertise this place (Eldoret) as the city of champions," the 2017 and 2019 New York Marathon winner says. Disappointing year Tirop World Cross Country Tour will somewhat compensate for athletes who had been gearing up to compete at the Africa Cross Country Championship initially slated for Lome, Togo. After it was postponed owing to rising Covid-19 infections in the West African nation, the event was relocated to neighbouring Nigeria before it was subsequently canceled. Many Kenyan athletes who had competed at the national championship were left disappointed by the turn of events ahead of what they considered a busy season. Among them was Daisy Cherotich who had come second in the women's senior race, behind Sheila Chelangat. "It would have been nice to compete at the Africa Cross Country because I had been looking forward to it since the beginning of the season. Anyway, we had to understand that it was beyond our control and focus on other upcoming competitions," the Discovery Kenya Cross Country champion said. Likewise, Tuwei bemoans the circumstances leading to the cancellation of the continental event. "We missed out on those events because of issues that were beyond control. After Togo, we convinced Nigeria to host the event because we did not want to let it pass like that. However, a few weeks to the event we had to cancel it because of Covid, once again," he says. Also postponed was the World Cross Country Championship, set for Bathurst, Australia, which was pushed forward to this year due to the pandemic. The event has consequently been rescheduled to 2023 owing to Australia's travel restrictions around the virus. Hope in plenty Considering that 2021 ended on a high as far as sports activities are concerned, many athletes have cause for optimism ahead of the busy cross-country period. Many of the sports competitions scheduled for last year — including Tokyo Olympics, Euro 2020, Diamond League, Copa America, and World Continental Tour, among others — went on unhitched even under the cloud of the pandemic. As the virus continues to lose its sting and vaccination rates increase, it is expected that many events lined up for 2022 will proceed. Kamworor is undoubtedly one of those hopeful of better tidings in this athletics season after an underwhelming season. After winning the men's senior race at cross country trials for the Police Service, the former world half marathon record holder was forced to withdraw mid-race from the national championship, which was clinched by Rodgers Kwemoi. Lady luck seemed to be evading Kamworor when he was later forced to pull out of the Team Kenya contingent to the Tokyo Olympics due to a nagging injury. Even as he plans to run in Eldoret to honour Tirop's memory, Kamworor is looking forward to a busier year. "Many were not able to train effectively but we hope this year will be different and will be able to compete in a majority of competitions. These cross country races are the perfect build-up for this year's competitions," he says. Preparations underway As athletes continue sharpening themselves in readiness for these competitions, organisers are also working round the clock to put everything in place. AK vice president and director of competitions Paul Mutwii this week asked all regions and affiliates to submit the names of their athletes for the national championship by January 17. Furthermore, Mutwii, who is also chair of the Local Organising Committee for the Cross Country Tour, says they are putting the finishing touches on the logistics for the invitational competition. "The national cross country championship will be a dry run for the Cross Country Tour. We want to identify any challenges, which may crop up in the route as well as identify how the Covid-19 protocols will be adhered to in various areas, including fans' seating, dignitaries, and the start and finish points," he says. Worldwide, cross country races are described as exciting yet challenging owing to the fact that venues have different terrains. As the curtain-raiser to the athletics season, the upcoming busy cross country period will help improve endurance, skills, and psychological concentration of athletes gearing up for major track and field competitions later in the year, including the World Championships and Commonwealth Games. With the calibre of competitors signing up for cross country competitions, it promises to be a thrilling opener to the athletics season.