Mt Kenya tycoons and top Maa community leaders have inked a deal to rally behind former Prime Minister Raila Odinga's bid to be president. The leaders met at the Safari Park Hotel where they signed an MoU to support Rala. The Mt Kenya Foundation, famed for its influence on the country's leadership, is seeking to expand its influence far beyond Central region. This was the second public meeting the influential team organised outside the Gema community. The meeting with Maa community comes a month after the MKF officials met leaders from Northeastern Kenya who also agreed to support the Azimio La Umoja candidate. Among those who attended the Tuesday meeting were Governors James Nyoro (Kiambu), Anne Kananu (Nairobi), Joseph Ole Lenku ( Kajiado) and Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. Others were Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Charge, Kiambu MP Jude Njomo and hundreds of delegates from the two communities. Speaking during the event, Mount Kenya Foundation chairman Peter Munga rallied Kenyans to support Raila, saying Kenyans will be safe in his hands. "We are safe in the hands of Raila Odinga and that why we are reaching out to other community leaders," he said. Raila Odinga castigated the "politics of madoadoa", calling on leaders to shun hatred ahead of August polls and after. He said that Kenyans have constitutional rights to live and work all over Kenya. "Kenya belongs to all of us  and we should work together to make it modern by having electricity, health and proper education for our children,"he said. He cited the Korean economy that has grown tremendously, noting  the Kenyan economy is also set to change. He said Kenyans should not be divided by their ethnicity. "We can make the country great if we can shun politics of hatred and I promise you, Kenya will change," Raila said. He said it's possible for Kenyans to unite and champion a common agenda. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko described the August contest as a two-horse race but warned that one axis risks plunging the country into worse problems. He told Kenyans not to blunder by electing the DP whom he said will mortgage the country. "Let us not make a blunder that will cost us heavily," Tobiko said. He added, "There are those who, God forbid,  assume the leadership. then this country will be put on mortgage." Lenku said the people  of Mt Kenya and the Maa community are fully behind the former Prime Minister and they will work together to ensure Raila succeeds President Kenyatta. "On behalf of the Maa community, we will work with Odinga and leaders we have agreed to campaign for him," he said Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, who two weeks ago hosted Raila in Thika town, said the region is solidly behind the Azimio La Umoja movement. Nyoro said, Raila will beat his arch-political rival William Ruto in Mt  Kenya, saying the ODM boss will bag 60 per cent of the region’s votes. "We need 60 per cent votes from Mt Kenya region and this we will guarantee you,"Nyoro said. (Edited by V. Graham)