Detectives believe the murder-suicide incident of a police couple at Kiungani Police Station, Kiminini, Trans Nzoia, was because of a love triangle. Police say constable Dorcas Chebet, 27 and her husband Alex Andari 28, died of gunshot wounds in their house Sunday morning. It is believed that Chebet killed Andari before killing herself. Detectives who checked their last communications established that Andari had previously accused his wife of infidelity and had contemplated murder at one point. Texts messages also indicated that he enticed her to come for a new phone as a surprise. Preliminary findings indicate that Chebet shot Andari in the chest before turning the G3 rifle on herself. Witnesses said Chebet followed Andari to the house and they locked themselves therein. Minutes later, three gunshots were heard, and when police broke the door, they found the bodies sprawled on the floor. County Police Commander Jacinta Wesonga said Chebet, attached to Kiminini police station, less than 10 kilometres from Kiungani, arrived at the station at around 10.30 am to visit her husband. “After an hour or so, officers said they heard a gunshot. About 10 minutes later, they heard another, then the third shortly after,” she said. Wesonga said they are investigating the case. Tens of police officers have in the past year been killed and injured in similar circumstances. Most of the incidences have been blamed on stress and trauma. Officials said they are making efforts to address the worrying trend. As part of efforts to address the menace, police authorities have rolled out a counselling programme targeting the officers. The National Police Service Commission announced it had established the counselling unit, which will, among others things, evaluate, design, and lead an outreach programme to deal with mental health problems and substance abuse. The programme is also aimed at assisting clients or families affected by mental health, substance abuse and trauma to overcome the challenges. Last year, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangí encouraged police officers to formalize their unions and officially inform the Human Resources department. He said the clergy will be roped in to encourage as many officers as possible to conduct formal weddings. “Like any other members of society, police and prisons officers are susceptible to mental health challenges and other pressures, including drugs and substance abuse,” he said. Matiang’i said the government, in collaboration with the NPS and Prison Service, has enhanced counselling and medical help for affected officers. “There is a deliberate drive to destigmatize mental health and stress, and to actively reach out to potential cases, including Nyumba Kumi initiative.” Experts say more women are likely to try to kill themselves, but male suicide methods are often more violent, making them more likely to be completed before an intervention. Men are also conditioned by society not to speak out or even cry, but with increased awareness, health experts say the trend can be reversed. The World Health Organisation says such cases are attributed to joblessness, the breakup of relationships or a death, academic failures or pressures, legal difficulties, financial difficulties, bullying, previous suicide attempts, history of suicide in a family, alcoholism and substance misuse, depression and bipolar disorder.