Former Makeni County Commissioner Maalim Mohamed today (Tuesday) assumed office as the Rift Valley regional commissioner. Mohamed has replaced long-serving administrator George Natembeya who took early retirement on January 12 to try a hand in politics. Mohamed comes with a wealth of experience gained over a period of 30 years in national administration and in different places. He has served in Garissa county which is affected by internal and external conflicts. He started the 'Jua Jirani Yako' campaign aimed at ensuring good neighbourliness and curbing radicalisation. Other areas where he has served as a County Commissioner or District commissioner are Mombasa, Kisumu, Makueni and Bungoma county which is home to Mt Elgon. Addressing the media at his boardroom in Nakuru where he was accompanied by all the 14 county commissioners from the region, Mohamed promised to cooperate with fellow administrators, communities and stakeholders in his bid to change the region. He promised to deliver the desired change in Rift Valley by seeking to understand the dynamics and working with the communities and all stakeholders. "So much has been done by my predecessors, especially Natembeya who did a splendid job in fighting cattle rustling, retrogressive cultures such as Female Genital Mutilation and early marriages and ensuring forest restoration and I am here to continue with the good work," he said. Mohamed committed to ensuring security in all the 14 counties of Rift Valley including counties where cases of ethnic clashes and killings due to cattle rustling are rampant. "Of the 14 Counties in this region, only four namely Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, West Pokot and Laikipia have major insecurity challenges and I commit to solving that problem," he said. He said they had agreed with the county commissioners of the three counties around Kerio Valley with a view of ending the sporadic attacks and killings. The RC said Laikipia was largely safe from the Ol-Moran area where Laikipia Nature Conservancy is located. "Laikipia is a small pocket of the vast Laikipia County and the government has done a lot to maintain peace, a multi-agency security team has been deployed there to enhance security," he said. Mohamed said his main call was to protect lives and property adding that the government had the machinery to do so. He expressed faith in the county commissioners adding that he was sure that he will deliver on his goals with their help. "All these county commissioners are my friends, we have worked together in different parts of the country and I have faith in their cooperation," he said. He issued a stern warning to politicians against inciting communities to violence especially during the electioneering period. "This is an election year and I want to warn leaders that we will not allow chaos that would lead to bloodbath," he said.