Charles Njonjo took long to establish his nuclear family and once he did, he held it together. His son-in-law Carey Ngini, who is married to his secondborn daughter Mary Wambui, said Njonjo called a family get-together on Saturday, January 1, and they had a fireside chat. Ngini said they talked about various things and although his father-in-law was lively and strong, he was showing signs of weaknesses. Together, he said, they had "some interesting conversations". He said Njonjo's memory was still ok. Njonjo married Briton Margaret Bryson in a lavish wedding ceremony on November 18, 1972, at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi. He was 52 at the time. Jomo Kenyatta was the chief guest at the ceremony. In fact, it was the constant mocking by Kenyatta that pushed him to marry. Serving as the Attorney General at the time, it is said Kenyatta would complain that he felt uneasy being advised by a bachelor on legal matters. Before their marriage, Bryson, the daughter of Africa Inland Church Missionary Stuart Bryson, was a church choir member and worked as a supervisor at the Ministry of Education. Stuart is remembered for his immense contribution in translating the first Nandi Bible. Firebrand Anglican Bishop Henry Okullu was the officiating minister. He preached on the theme of rejected stone from the book of Matthew 21:33-34. His best man was Ng'ethe Mungai, the country's first ambassador to the UK and Kenyatta's first cousin. With Bryson, they had three children–Wairimu, Mary Wambui and Josiah David. Though not much is available in public about his children, Wairimu, his firstborn daughter, is known to have abandoned her profession as a criminal attorney in London in 2004 to return home to engage in efforts to converse marine life. Her Swedish husband, Volker Bassen, is also known to be passionate about environmental conservation. Wairimu later ventured into diving and became a member of the Professional Association of Diving Instructors. She serves as one of the trustees of Tumaini Children's Home, which provides accommodation and treatment for children suffering from HIV. Carey Ngini has been the spokesman of the Njonjo family. Over the last two year, he has been periodically providing Njonjo's health updates to the public. Ngini is the chairman and CEO of Bentworth Investments Limited. Njonjo had six grandchildren. He said in a past interview that his grandchildren lifted his energy and gave him more reason to love life. As for his children, he would say that he was satisfied with their education."I have given them what my father gave me-education," he would say. “I have looked after my kids well, I have seen them through their education; one is a barrister, the other is a scientist and one is a veterinary doctor. They have turned out well, I think," he would say.