Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on Wednesday said they will adopt a hybrid method to identify candidates for his Azimio la Umoja political machine. The ODM boss disclosed the yet to be registered Azimio Coalition Party will zone the country based on parties' political strengths. Affiliate parties will then field candidates in regions where they have support. In some areas, Raila said, the partner parties will be forced to hold joint nomination and the winner becomes the Azimio candidate supported by all. This will ensure the political outfit will only rally behind one candidate for each elective post across the country. Raila is running away from the past elections mistakes where his coalitions lost a number of seats because of sibling rivalry between partner parties which gave leeway to rivals. "As you are aware we are forming a bigger coalition that will bring together many political parties called Azimio la Umoja," Raila said. Already, more than 10 political parties have signalled interest in joining the yet to be formed Azimio Coalition Party. The Azimio’s model is a copy and paste model of the 2002 defunct National Rainbow Coalition that ended almost four decades of Kanu rule. The Star has established the Raila’s campaign team is working on how the country will be zoned as well as identifying elective areas where they will conduct joint nominations. Speaking at Chungwa House on Wednesday, the ODM boss said the two methods will ensure the party produces the highest number of elected leaders. “We want majority MCAs, MPs and governors across the country so that we can government properly,” Raila said. On Wednesday, Raila held a series of meetings that kicked off early morning. Arid and Semi-Arid Lands leaders under Upya Movement have vowed to remain solidly behind the ODM leader after their meeting at a Nairobi hotel. Raila, in return, said he will hand over his manifesto to Upya leaders led by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani for incorporation of the views of ASAL communities. “My manifesto is ready and I will give you sections that concern your areas for input but keep it a secret until the time we will be launching it," the ODM boss said. "Do not leak it to the bottom-up (economic model) people since we know their economic model has no basis.”. Raila promised that insecurity in Northern Kenya will be top on the list of issues his administration will address if he forms the next government. Yatani said Upya Movement leaders want to join a political formation or alliance where they have “a stake and space on the high table.” “Our decision to support you is derived from the trust we have in President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has given us a direction that we have desired. We will support you unconditionally,” Yatani added. He said Upya wants to partner with ODM and other parties that will support Azimio la Umoja. “We want to contribute to your to do list. We also have our expectations which we know you will fulfil.” Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said pastoralist leaders are backing Raila since they do not want to gamble with the future of their communities. “We have been in the cold for so long and it is time for us to also be on the decision making table. We no longer want to feel like second-class citizens,” she said. Raila asked candidates who will bid for various elective positions under Azimio La Umoja Movement to remain in the formation if they lose in the elections. The former prime minister said they are expecting  many hopefuls to contest under Azimio but only one candidate will be elected at a time. "We may have dozens competing for a ward under Azimio but only one of them will win.  This does not mean those who lose are useless," he said. Raila added that those who will lose under  Azimio will be accommodated in his government. "Don't lose in the election and then run away to our competitors. Let's remain in Azimio because together we can achieve what we have set out to do, " he added. Yatani said Northern Kenya had come of age and is now determined to be part of the ongoing political discourse. “To this effect, we assure you of our full and unwavering support to deliver our region to Azimio la Umoja through the region’s political vehicle—The United Party of Independent Alliance,” he said. Yatani said past attempts by communities in Northern Kenya to get together to discuss issues of collective good have failed due to intimidation and sabotage. “On behalf of the people of northern Kenya, I extend a hand of friendship to you and your party. I have no doubt that you will hold the hand of the region in the years to come,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)