KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno has said they are not quacking in the boots over their crunch Kenyan Premier League tie against leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. The two sides are set to lock horns at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday in what pundits bill as the biggest thriller of the season, given their status on the log as the top two sides. “I know it will be a tough encounter given the quality of Kakamega Homeboyz. However,  we consider Sunday's game to be like any other,” said Otieno. While admitting that their loss to Bidco United in their last outing at the same venue was a huge setback to their title chances, the seasoned gaffer tipped his charges to bounce back strongly in Sunday's encounter. “We are definitely eager to claim our opponents' scalp, especially after our last defeat. We are aware of the importance of winning this match,” said Otieno. Otieno, however, said it would be a big mistake for anyone to rule them out, especially after they proved to be the dark horses of the tournament in the preceding season where they nudged aside a tough challenge from the more fancied sides to wind up second behind champions Tusker. “Like the rest of our rivals in the competition, we are in the competition for the title. However, my take is that it's too early in the day to start talking about our chances at the title this season,” said Otieno. “Our plan is to take each game at a time and we shall not allow the pressure of clinching the title weigh us down too much to an extent of affecting our performance,” he added. Otieno said other than centre-back Robinson Kamura who was sent for an early shower after committing an infringement against Bidco, the other players would be available for selection on Sunday. “We don't have any injury concerns at the moment. I wouldn't want to reveal who will fill Kamura's shoes because that would be giving our opponents too much information,” said Otieno. AFC Leopards versus Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani highlight Saturday's fixtures that also pit Kenya Police against struggling Mathare United at Ruaraka grounds. But most of the action will be on Sunday with a massive six matches scheduled for the day. Champions Tusker host Nairobi City Stars at Ruraka grounds as Bidco and Sofapaka lock horns at Nyayo Stadium. Record champions, Gor Mahia, have a tricky encounter against high-flying debutants Talanta at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets will look to replicate the splendid form they exhibited in their 4-2 thumping of Wazito at Bukhungu when they host Bandari at the same venue. Wazito flex muscles with Nzoia Sugar at Utalii Grounds.