The National Police Service received 100 brand-new Mahindra Scorpio Pik-up vehicles during a hand-over ceremony held at the Simba Corp Headquarters on Mombasa Road. Speaking at the event, Chief Transport Officer David Njagi said that Mahindra is a sturdy vehicle and that they are looking forward to serving the nation using the vehicles. “I recently visited AVA in Mombasa and I was pretty pleased with what I saw. We are delighted with the acquisition of a new fleet of vehicles. The Mahindra is a sturdy vehicle and we look forward to serving the nation in these vehicles. The nature of our work involves a lot of movement in these vehicles and we are happy to hear that Simba Corp will always be ready to service them,” Njagi said. Mahindra Product Manager Mehul Sachdev said that Kenya is a strategic market for Mahindra in the African continent as this is the headquarter of East Africa operations. “The Mahindra Scorpio Pik-up has more than 150,000 customers worldwide. This product comes with a 2.2l 4-cylinder M-hawk Turbo diesel engine with a new contemporary look that includes a restyled signature Mahindra Single Cab 4x4 front grille with chrome inserts.” He added that the vehicle has a large load box with a maximum payload of 1200 kg, and a braked towing capacity of 2500 kg making it a suitable and dependable team player for the police force. “Simba Corp has a fully functional service center with trained personnel and will be able to service the entire fleet through its branches, dealers, and numerous service centers countrywide”, he added. Nixon Oduor, Head of Government Sales and Leasing at Simba Corp said that: “We are proud to partner with The National Police Service in the leasing of locally assembled, brand new, reliable and rugged vehicle, the Mahindra Scorpio Pik-up. This association will make it possible for the National Police Service to access the Mahindra Scorpio Pik-up with robust country-wide service support. I am confident that the Mahindra Scorpio Pik-up will provide high reliability and optimum performance to Kenya Police Service.”