Political realignments continue to take shape in Kisii ahead of the August 9 polls. Regional balancing will be at center stage as governor aspirants pick their teams. Top governor candidates have already picked running mates and identified senators, woman representative aspirants and county assembly speaker who will be their camp. With clan politics likely to play a key role, the aspirants are enticing other clans to join their team. The leading governor aspirants are Roads and Infrastructure Chief Administrative Secretary Chris Obure, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati, Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu, Senator Sam Ongeri, Woman Representative Janet Ong’era, former South Mugirango MPs Omingo Magara and Manson Oyongo. Others in the race are Rachel Otundo, Charles Matoke, and Alfred Nyangweso. Already, Arati who hails from Bobasi has picked former Nyaribari Chache MP Robert Monda as his running mate. Kitutu Chache North MP Richard Onyonka is the senatorial aspirant in his camp. Arati is yet to pick a woman representative candidate with at least four scrambling for the position. However, reports indicate he is likely to pick a woman representative from the larger Bomachoge clan and a speaker from Bonchari. Last week, Obure who also hails from Bobasi unveiled former Bonchari MP Charles Onyancha as his senatorial candidate. He is yet to pick a running mate and a woman representative. Obure has been holding closed-door meetings with delegations from all nine constituencies as he prepares to launch his campaigns. “When I met a delegation from Bonchari, they wanted me to work with Charles Onyancha. I know him very well since we were together in parliament. We can make a strong winning team,” said Obure. Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu has unveiled former Kisii county finance minister John Billy Momanyi who hails from Bonchari as his running mate while former nominated MCA Esther Nyamwamu will be his woman representative. “I will name the senator aspirant very soon. I want my camp complete before I hit the ground,” said Machogu. Maangi, Ongeri, Ong’era, Magara, Oyongo, and the rest of the aspirants are yet to identify their teams with some waiting for civil servants to resign as per Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission regulations before unveiling their teams. Most politicians are keen to woo Bonchari and Kitutu Chache South which does not have a governor aspirant voters. Nyangweso who is allied to UDA is the only governor aspirant from the larger Kitutu clan. Outgoing governor James Ongwae hails from the clan complicating matters for Nyangweso. Ongwae is yet to identify his successor.