Experienced road racers Sammy Nyokaye and Dickson Simba have warned of fireworks during Sunday's Nyanza South regional cross country meeting at Kiendege secondary school. After several races in Italy in October and November, Simba said he is back in shape looking forward to this weekend's race. "I trained well in December and I’m ready for the event. My target is to qualify for the nationals and finish top six,” said Simba. On the other hand, Nyokaye said: “I have just completed my speed work and looking forward to the regionals and nationals. I know it will be very competitive between experienced and upcoming athletes but I’m confident of a podium finish.” Simba and Nyokaye are training mates at Mochenwa Athletics Club and have dominated local races in the recent past. They, however, face stiff competition from 18-year-old Felix Boera of Keberesi secondary who won the Nyamira Great Run series’ last event in Nyamira South in November. In the senior women’s event, Faith Bett, who dominated the Nyamira Great Run Series, starts favourite but faces stiff competition from Teresa Omosa and Winfida Moseti. Athletics Kenya Nyanza South chairman Peter Angwenyi said they expect to field a strong team for the nationals scheduled for Kapseret in Uasin Gishu County on January 22. “The Nyamira Great Run Series which is sponsored by the county government of Nyamira has helped the athletes prepare for the regional cross country. We expect a highly competitive event.” He added: “We also want to field a very strong team in the mixed relay race.” At the same time, the Nyanza North Championships will be staged at Rabuor primary school on Saturday. “We have invited athletes from Homa Bay, Kisumu, and Siaya counties,” said AK Nyanza North chairman, Joseph Ochieng. He also announced that the second track and field weekend meeting will be held at Moi Stadium,  Kisumu, and not Jomo Kenyatta Sports Stadium in Mamboleo as earlier announced. “Jomo Kenyatta Sports Grounds is currently tarmacked and does not have tartan and that’s why we have moved it to Moi Stadium. However, field events will be staged at Kisumu Day,” said Ochieng.