Police are investigating two unidentified bodies dumped in the Kapsigorian bushes near Kabarnet town in Baringo on Sunday. The bodies were discovered by motorbike riders along the busy Kabarnet-SS corner-Iten road around 6pm and authorities were informed. One was naked and a hand was chopped off. Another was wearing only boxer shorts and had bruises on his face. Residents who saw the bodies said the men must have been tortured. “They must have been murdered elsewhere and then dumped here in Baringo,” resident Barnaba Kiptoo said. “A pungent smell emanated from the bushes, then we alighted from our motorbike and we were shocked to find  dumped human bodies on the bare ground,” boda boda rider Ezra Kigen said. He reported the bodies to Kiboino location chief Benjamin Chemjor who alerted the police. County Criminal Investigation officer Joseph Mumira said police collected the bodies and took to the county referral hospital in Kasbarnet for postmortem exams. Fingerprints were taken and sent to the National Registration Bureau for identification, “because so far nobody has come to identify and claim the bodies,” he said. The fingerprints should identify the men and where they came from. Mumira said that because of decomposition, it was difficult to tell whether the assailants used blunt or sharp objects. He said such cases have not been reported in the recent past in the area. The discovery on Sunday was made barely a day after another body of a male adult was discovered at the Kolol area in neighbouring Elgeyo Marakwet county. Baringo-based civil society crusader Isaiah Biwott said the murders might have been committed by people settling scores with the victims. “People should learn to respect the law, report suspects to be taken to court and charged instead of killing each other,” he said. Worried residents of Baringo asked why the killings were taking place during the electioneering season. Meanwhile, police are trying to identified bodies frequently dumped in River Yala, Siaya county. Since January last year, 20 bodies had been retrieved from the river. (Edited by V. Graham)