The mid-season transfer window is finally here and we are bound to witness a flurry of activities in the market as clubs seek to bolster their squads. The Kenyan Premier League window officially opened on January 10 and clubs have until February 7 to complete transactions. The National Super League clubs are set to proceed to the market from January 21 and have until February 18 to acquire their dream signatures. The essence of the mid-season window is to afford teams an opportunity to tinker with their lineups and plug all the glaring loopholes that the technical bench may have observed in the initial phase of the season. It is also a glorious opportunity for players who feel dissatisfied with their current status to jump ship. Amid all the hustle and bustle of the transfer market is the ballooning concern that has emerged in the past, revolving around the widespread mistreatment players plying trade in local competitions are usually subjected to. A big number of players seeking greener pastures in the ongoing transfer window are actually running away from the perennial issue of unpaid salaries. Players are, understandably, promised heaven when penning contracts only to end up being traumatised by unfulfilled pledges when they finally join new clubs. Local clubs must now learn to cut their clothes according to their sizes. It's entirely unprofessional for club honchos to dangle lofty offers that are, in reality, far beyond their means. The intrays of sports journalists are awash with stories of foreign players who have been kicked out of their hotel rooms and residences due to accumulated rent arrears, the result of unpaid salaries. It's not clear how clubs expect players to weather the storm occasioned by financial constraints. Indeed, club administrators have attributed the situation to a dearth of funds especially in circumstances where sponsors either pull out or renege on their promises. While they may be having a solid ground upon which to defend themselves, research has shown that — in most instances — clubs fail to honour their obligations due to misappropriation of funds received from sponsors. So rampant is the vice that the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee recently pledged to employ all the resources at their disposal to stem it before it spreads any further. While promising to bring sponsors on board to ease off the burden of running football in the country, committee member Ali Amour said they would conduct frequent audits on club activities to ascertain transparency and accountability in the use of allotted funds. Unfortunately, the mischief isn't peculiar to players alone. Coaches have on numerous occasions found themselves dragged into the mess. And until the situation is entirely addressed, players and coaches will continue to suffer at the hands of unscrupulous club officials who prioritise vested interests at the expense of their employees' welfare. The local football league can only prove attractive if clubs are managed professionally. Professionalism entails taking good care of coaches and players and ensuring their minds are free from the trepidations brought about by money-related issues.