Learning activities have been disrupted for more than 2,000 school-going children due to banditry attacks in Baringo county. Five primary schools Chepkesin, Chepkew, Kapng’etio, Rugus and Noosukro in Baringo North and Baringo South subcounties remain closed owing to unresolved banditry menace. “If the government does not move with speed to address the situation soon then we fear all schools in the volatile areas might be closed down," John Kandagor a teacher said on Sunday. Kandagor said currently tension is high in the area as deadly bandits forced thousands to flee their homes. He further said the fate of more than 2,000 pupils remains unknown as learning in 13 primary schools are surrounded by life-threatening bandits; Kisumet, Toboroi, Kapturo, Chemoe, yatya, Kagir, Yatya, Ng’aratuko and Loruk, Mukutani, Kiserian, Kasiela and Chemorong'ion. “If the attacks worsen then the above schools might be closed down and even the fate of us teachers will be uncertain,” Kandagor said. He therefore pleaded to the government through the Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiangi to act fast. Last week armed bandits stormed parts of Baringo North and South killing three herders Vincent Tuwit, Kipkenei Kimurio and Stephen Kwonyike and drove away hundreds of livestock towards the neighboring Tiaty subcounty. Kisumet resident David Lomul said the merciless bandits don’t even allow people to bury their dead, “instead they want to destabilise and cause more trauma and confusion.” Lomul said the criminals seem to be interested more in forcing people to flee so they can use the land to graze their cattle. On Saturday, victims in Kagir and Yatia villages in Baringo North protested calling on the government to move faster to address the menace. A widow Sote Chebon said she has nothing remaining to cater for her children after bandits took all her goats last week. “I am left confused and I now feel like committing suicide,” Chebon said. Her neighbor Mary Sokome who gave birth the same week escaped death by a whisker after the bandits shot them at night while asleep in the house, “we are lucky the bullet did not penetrate our mud-wall hut,” she said. Kagir resident Paul Mosop said the raid occurred while the Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU) officers were camping 300 meters away. “In fact they responded after all our 240 goats were taken leaving us to wonder if the government is collaborating with the bandits,” he said. Police sources however confirmed the frequent bandit attacks blaming  hilly terrains, poor roads and lack of communication network. Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol revealed that majority of the bullets used by the bandits are branded ‘KDF’ meaning they were supplied by some Kenyan soldiers. “It is therefore prudent for the government to investigate all the soldiers from the warring pastoral communities, especially from Baringo,” he said. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo calls on the government to quickly consider recalling the national police reservists and compensate the attack victims. “Government should stop watching helplessly as our people are being massacred and rendered homeless,” Cheptumo said. He further wondered if the residents shall vote peacefully if the banditry persists. But county Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot warned leaders against politicising insecurity saying the issue should be approached with intelligence. It is believed more than 6,000 illegal guns still lie in the hands of civilians in North Rift while the government withdrew the national police reservists.