Garissa Governor Ali Korane has fired Garissa County Referral Hospital chief executive officer Ambrose Misore. Ahmed Diis, a pharmacist, has been appointed as the new CEO. Misore was fired a week after the governor made an impromptu visit at the facility. The level 5 facility has in the last two months been making headlines for the wrong reasons. Patients have been complaining of poor services with reports medical staff were either absconding duty or reporting late. There have been claims the facility is in a filthy state and patients are advised to purchase prescribed drugs from private chemists. The Star learnt for the last three years, the laboratory had no reagents, therefore, cannot perform basic tests such as liver function tests, hemogram among others. Patients buy gloves, cotton wool, cord clamps and tests are done outside. There are private clinics opposite the hospital perhaps to take advantage of the biggest referral hospital failures. The hospital serves residents of Garissa, Mandera, Wajir, Tana River and parts of Kitui. Following the complaints, Korane interacted with patients and hospital staff to get first-hand information on the facility management. Korane who was accompanied by the county secretary Abdi Ali, protocol officer Faiza Sadiq and other county officials blamed the current situation on poor management. “What I have seen is very tragic, a complete institutional collapse. However, our politicians and social media warriors will say the institution is not being funded,” he said. “The biggest challenge we have with devolution and this county is the capacity to do things right. Sometimes when the problems are glaring because of lack of capacity and skills we still give it a political angle.” Korane said the institution's funds for this financial year are yet to be released. He however said monies intended for other purposes have been re-directed to the health department. The governor said Sh26 million has been given out with a big chunk going to the facility. “When I went to the hospital there was no detergent. For Sh1,000 you can buy soap for a week and for Sh10,000 you can buy all the materials, but still, they could not,” Korane said. “There is a complete collapse of management which I promise to fix immediately.” While congratulating Diis, county assembly minority leader Mohamed Ali urged the Executive arm to support the newly appointed CEO to execute his responsibilities accordingly. Edited by Kiilu Damaris