Two Kalenjin politicians have told their community not to put all their eggs in one basket in hopes the hustler movement will clinch the presidency. They warned them to tread carefully or risk being tossed into the opposition after the August 9 general election. Deputy President William Ruto is considered the Kalenjin kingpin and his UDA party appears to dominate the region, with frequent defections to his side. He is running for president and so is ODM leader Raila Odinga, among others. Independent candidate for Bureti MP Johnstone Kirui Ngulalu and former Kipsigis councillor Simon Langat said it's time the community elected leaders and not political parties. "Go for leaders, regardless whether they are from the hustler movement or Azimio la Umoja and vote them in," Kirui said. Kirui and Langat told presidential aspirants Ruto, Raila, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka to feel free and visit Kalenjin domains in Rift Valley and seek votes. Speaking to the Star in Kericho town on Sunday, Kirui and Langat said Rift Valley is not locked for the United Democratic Movement and any other party is at liberty to campaign. Kirui, former personal assistant to Industrialisation CS Jonathan Ngeno (deceased), sought to dispel fears of some aspirants that they may encounter hostility if they campaign in Rift Valley. Kirui and Langat told Azimio la Umoja presidential aspirants Raila Odinga, Kalonzo and Mudavadi they should visit all 14 counties in Rift Valley. Kirui and Langat expressed concern the Kalenjin community risked being tossed into the opposition if they failed to read the signs of the times. "As a community, we should not put our eggs in one basket or risk being tossed to the opposition after the August 9 general election," Langat said. Kirui said the region should elect leaders from UDA, Azimio, Wiper, ANC and even independent candidates if they expect to be part of the next government. He said Rift Valley is open and not locked for hustlers as some UDA hardliners would want everyone to believe. "Come here and sell your presidential policies without fear of intimidation," Langat said. Langat said that as a community, "We cherish peace and tranquility and we should not be mistaken as hostile people out to unleash terror over politics." (Edited by V. Graham)