President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday led Kenyans in mourning the country’s first post-independence Attorney General Charles Njonjo. Njonjo died at 5 am aged 101 at his Muthaiga home. While eulogising Njonjo, Uhuru said his death was a big blow to Kenya and the continent at large. Njonjo was the county’s first AG during President Jomo Kenyatta's government and rose to become Constitutional Affairs Minister between 1980 and 1983. The Head of State said Njonjo lead in the founding of the nation at independence. “It is with a heavy heart that I have this morning, Sunday, January 2 2022, received the sad and heartbreaking news of the passing on of Charles Mugane Njonjo,” Uhuru said in a communique. “As a nation, we owe a debt of gratitude to Njonjo and his generation of independence era leaders for their selfless contribution to the laying of the solid foundation upon which our country continues to thrive.” The Duke of Kabeteshire, as he was nicknamed, was known for his trademark pinstripe suits and a unique taste for things British. However, Koigi Wamwere, one of the fiercest critics of Kenyatta and Moi governments said Njonjo had destroyed Kenya. “The Kenya that we know today, which is not anywhere of a middle economy or even a first-world economy, still belongs to the Third World because of the decisions that were made by some people like Njonjo,” he told the Star. “I would say he destroyed the country by subjecting it to colonial rule, capitalism, dictatorship and even more tragically assassination of persons who seems to be acting contrary to the status quo of the day.” Deputy President William Ruto described the former Kikuyu MP as a dedicated blunt advocate for the causes he believed in. “Charles Njonjo devoted his life in serving our country in pre-and post-independent Kenya as a civil servant, Attorney-General, Kikuyu MP and Constitutional Affairs Minister. We will miss his wisdom, company and warmth,” Ruto said. ODM leader Raila Odinga said Njonjo passed on having made peace with everyone. He described Njonjo as a patriot who successfully steered the first transition defusing uncertainty and tension that came with the first change of power. “He reminded us that life goes on, that politics is not the beginning and the end; that there are no permanent friends or foes; that there are very few things in political life worth dying for or prejudicing others about,” Raila said. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said in Njonjo’s death, Kenya has lost a statesman who defended the constitution against elements who were out to bar late President Moi from taking over power following Mzee Kenyatta’s death in 1978. “Njonjo will be remembered as an icon for shaping the history of this nation and we all owe him gratitude for his contributions towards progressive constitutionalism,” Kalonzo said. Describing Njonjo as a stickler of the law, he said a smooth transition would not have been possible without him. “He was a valiant crusader against corruption. During the Chepkube black gold coffee scandal, Njonjo was prepared to resign if the key perpetrators of the scandal did not resign from cabinet and parliament,” he said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said Njonjo shaped the constitutional and legal regime of independent Kenya while serving as the first African AG. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho described Njonjo as a dedicated national leader who was very instrumental in ensuring smooth transition following the demise of founding President Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. “The late Charles Njonjo was a brilliant legal mind and a strong proponent of preservation of arts and culture,” Joho said. Njonjo was cremated at Kariokor minutes after 9 am on Sunday as per his wishes. Edited by Kiilu Damaris