One person has been killed in Bobo-Sunkia village in Hindi division, Lamu west on Monday. The death was confirmed by Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia. The old man who has been identified as John Gichoya, 62, had his hands and legs bound behind his back before he was slaughtered and his house set ablaze with the body inside. The attackers also torched two more houses in the village before vanishing. The commissioner said investigations are underway to ascertain the true identity of the killers and their motive. The area has seen a land dispute between ranchers and local settlers. Police sources say one of the ranchers known as Amu Ranch which is about 63,000 acres was invaded by settlers. It is understood that ranch owners hired thugs to flush out the settlers. Regional Commissioner John Elungat told the Star that the situation is under control and the provincial administration is pursuing the attackers. "This is a land dispute that we are trying to resolve and would like to assure the public of their safety," Elungat said. "We have deployed heavy security in the area and we will bring to book those behind the attacks." The group of attackers numbering over 30 is said to have fled into the bushes upon hearing police sirens who responded to distress calls from locals. “The police responded right on time because we believe the militants planned to raid more villages but their plans were thwarted by the arrival of security officers,” said an administrator. The killings come just a day after six people were killed at Witho shopping centre in Lamu East. The six bodies have since been taken to the Mpeketoni hospital morgue. According to a police report, four people were set ablaze inside the Murimi Mangwe drinking den and burnt beyond recognition. Police have since identified the four as the den owner John Murimi and his three casuals namely, Peter Musyoka, Maina Wanjege and peter Maina. All the deceased persons had their hands tied from behind. The fifth person identified as Joseph Mwangi who is also the village elder at Witho was beheaded at his home and his house torched. He also had multiple stab wounds on his stomach. The sixth casualty was identified as Francis Kamau who had mysteriously disappeared on Sunday morning before his body was found along the road within Witho shopping centre. The body had gunshot wounds to the head and he had also been killed execution-style. Edited by D Tarus