The Thika MP race appears to be a two-horse race between former legislator Alice Ng’ang’a and controversial cleric David Ngari alias ‘Gakuyo’. The duo have already hit the ground to woo voters ahead of the August 9 poll. They seek to ascend to the seat that is currently occupied by Patrick Wainaina alias ‘Jungle’ who has declared his bid for the Kiambu gubernatorial seat. Gakuyo, a businessman and a cleric [General Overseer of Calvary Chosen Center Church in Thika] recently got a reprieve when the government handed over the management of Ekeza Sacco. Ezeka had been under receivership since 2019 over a Sh1 billion debt owed to depositors. Resumption of operations by the Sacco was a big win for the clergyman who is the founder of the Sacco. Its continued liquidation would have presented a headache to him as it would have provided fodder to his opponents. Besides, the cleric recently got a shot in the arm when his fellow men of cloth threw their weight behind him. They vowed to use their influence to ensure one of them ascends to an elective position come August 9. “We have been lamenting poor leadership after every five years. We are now going to change this region’s political narrative by supporting someone who is not a politician but a leader. "It’s our role as the church to ensure our region doesn’t go astray because of politicians,” pastor Simon Mbatia said in a recent function in Thika. They said members of the clergy have been shying away from politics because it has been branded dirty, the clerics said they will rally their followers to support one of their own. The clergymen under the Covenant Clergy Alliance said it was time for religious leaders to seek elective posts in the fights against the ills bedevilling society. They said Thika will be in safe hands should residents elect Gakuyo. “We will now actively spread the gospel that the Church must lead from the front through representation at elective offices,” Rev Peter Mburu said. Other aspirants who have declared interest to succeed Wainaina include academician Juma Hemedi and businessman Nduati Njuguna. The race is, however, set to intensify as new entrants are expected to come forth. Gakuyo has been campaigning on the trump card that Thika has been electing people from outside as area members and time has come for one of their own to occupy the seat. He has branded Ng'ang'a an outsider, claiming she comes from the neighbouring Juja constituency, while Wainaina has his roots in Gatundu North. Additionally, he termed previous legislators among them William Kabogo and Stephen Ndicho as outsiders having come from Ruiru and Githunguri constituencies respectively. “All those who led Thika as MPs before are from other regions including, Gatundu South, Juja, Ruiru and Githunguri. The current MP hails from Gatundu North constituency. It’s high time Thika residents elect one of their own who will best represent their interests,” Gakuyo who hails from Munyu, Gatuanyaga ward said. However, Ng'ang'a has since dismissed the narrative that she is a stranger in Thika. She said it is irrelevant as the people are comfortable with her leadership. "The people of Thika know me as a committed servant from my previous development record. When re-elected, I will work hard to achieve even greater developmental strides in the constituency," she said recently. Ng’ang’a and Gakuyo have been attending church and other community activities and the two are known for mobilisation skills that have set the pace for a titanic duel. Ng’ang’a is a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto and is going to seek re-election on the United Democratic Alliance ticket. Gakuyo, on the other side, is expected to run on a Jubilee ticket or any other party allied to the Azimio la Umoja fraternity under the leadership of ODM party leader Raila Odinga. Gakuyo said he offered his candidacy after realising that Thika the poor leadership Thika has had for years. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)