The United Democratic Alliance party has apologised to Kenyans over Meru Senator Mithika Linturi's 'madoadoa' remarks. In a statement on Monday, the party distanced itself from any interpretation of the remarks that link them to the exclusion, or any form of negativity. “Notwithstanding the way the term “Madoadoa” was deployed or the figurative and objective political intention thereof, the UDA Party is concerned that potent and emergent misinterpretation of the same might evoke negativity particularly given the electoral violence of yesteryears, and therefore regrets and apologizes for the turn of the event following those political remarks by Hon Linturi,” Secretary general Veronica Maina said. She insisted that UDA's philosophy is pegged on social and political cohesion as well as inclusion. The party said it remains steadfast in its commitment to constitutionalism, inclusive governance and peaceful coexistence. Maina in her statement maintained that Senator Linturi’s remarks were meant to urge UDA supporters in Uasin Gishu to elect only leaders allied to the DP's UDA party. “Hon. Linturi used the Swahili term ‘madoadoa’ as a figurative identifier of UDA’s political opponents in the region and urged UDA supporters not to elect such during the coming elections,” she said. Maina also raised concerns that other leaders across the political divide have previously used the word as a figurative description yet they were not misinterpreted like Linturi. At a rally in Eldoret, Linturi on Saturday said: "We want to be in the coming government but I want to tell you, people of Uasin Gishu, not to play with Kenya and I am asking you to remove the spots you have here. We cannot stand with William Ruto from Mt Kenya yet you have people here who don't listen and cannot team up with him". His remarks caused an uproar from a section of Kenyans forcing him to come clean and issue an apology. Linturi said his ‘madoadoa' remarks on Saturday were not meant to incite or propagate hate among residents of Uasin Gishu. “Today, while addressing the UDA rally in Eldoret, I expressed myself using words, which in a certain context, have acquired sinister political overtones and come to be associated with incitement and hate speech,” the Senator said. “At that moment, I was vigorously urging our supporters to offer full support to UDA candidates in this year's election, and was oblivious of the possibility that my choice of words might assume negative meaning,” he added. The Meru senator was on Sunday morning arrested by DCI detectives attached to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission at Rupa, at a hotel located within Eldoret. This followed a directive by the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji directing the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to probe the matter. -Edited by Bosco Marita