The rains that have been pounding many parts of the country still offer no hope to Kilifi farmers as drought is expected to continue once they end. National Drought Management Authority Kilifi director Adam Heri said the duration of the rains is not enough to sustain crops to maturity especially maize, which is widely grown in the county. “The rain season started late and according to the forecast we expect the rains not to go beyond January. This is less than three months which is needed for maize to mature. This signals a red alert for the food security of this region,” Heri said. He said some areas received a lot of rainfall within a short time while others received very minimal. “Most water pans have recharged and the livestock will get some pasture. The land looks green but people still do not have food. Heri advised farmers to plant drought tolerant crops like cassava, green peas among others so that they can sell and buy other food like maize flour. A spot check in many parts of Ganze, farms still remain untilled with the few farmers who have tilled their land decreasing the acreage. Garama Katana from Mwaeba in Ganze said he was hesitant to prepare his farm because of the rain patterns. Katana said all signs indicate the rain will not be adequate to support his crops. “Planting right now is taking a great risk. Right now it is raining but it is very hot. This means once the rains stop the land will dry up fast and crops will wither away. Last season I planted six acres of maize and got nothing. I do not want to go that direction again,” he said. Kilifi County Executive Member for Devolution Prof Gabriel Katana said more than 130,000 people are food insecure in the area. Last year, the county government set aside Sh100 million to buy relief food and also Sh32 million for the cash transfer to cushion the affected people. Devolution CAS Gideon Mung’aro said the government will continue supporting the areas hit by drought. He said even if the rains were good, it would still take time for crops to grow. “The government has not stopped food distribution exercises. We know people have no food. There are several interventions including the Inua Jamii cash transfer,” Mung’aro said.    -Edited by SKanyara