Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has dismissed claims that the presidential race will about two individuals: Raila Odinga and William Ruto. Wa Iria, who has declared his bid to vie for the presidency through his Usawa Kwa Wote party, said some presidential candidates have been touring the Mt Kenya region declaring that they are the main horses in the race. The second-time governor said he had given them time to criss-cross the region but that he will start campaigns this month, going round the counties to sell his vision. The region has in the past one year seen increased political activities as candidates flock to seek their support. "They are saying that they are the horses and the rest of us are just rats but I am one of the two governors re-elected in the entire region. The only difference between us is the number of aides we have," he said. He however said it is unfortunate that a section of residents has bought the narrative and has been supporting other candidates. But the candidates, he said, have been consolidating their regions behind them and ensuring no vote is lost, while asking their supporters to ensure they all have IDs and voters' cards. But according to Wa Iria, Mt Kenya region has the ability to elect a candidate to the presidency if only it was able to vote as a block. "It is time for us to decide to stand together and make our votes count. The others have their people together and only want to confuse us so that we can help fill their baskets," he said. "That is why they tell us that we should not vie so that we support them." He further added that some presidential candidates have been using local leaders to convince residents to support them. He also called upon his competitors to respect the President during the transition period, saying he is still the country's leader until he retires. Wa Iria vowed to ensure that all poor homes are provided with a dairy cow to boost their economic status if elected president. He said a dairy cow is a long-term investment that provides milk for sale and consumption, and manure before it is eventually sold for meat. "That will be a law, that every home that does not have a cow is provided with one. That is why my party's symbol is a cow," he said. Wa Iria's administration started the One Home One Cow Initiative that sought to provide all poor homes in the county with a dairy cow. The governor further expressed confidence that his party will produce most of the elected leaders in the county. Wa Iria spoke at Ihura Stadium while issuing bursaries to more than 3,000 students drawn from boarding secondary schools. The Nyota Zetu scholarships programme, which was established three years ago, benefits 1,000 new students every year. The students are selected with the help of primary school headteachers, church leaders and chiefs, with each of the 35 wards producing more 25 students. But Wa Iria said many poor families who had been left out of the programme have been visiting his office crying for help which he said has caused the county to consider picking 1,500 students. "The extra 500 chances will be going to orphans specifically," he announced.  (edited by Amol Awuor)