Gor Mahia's first-choice keeper, Gad Mathews, is predicting a cut-throat contest between him and his Kakamega Homeboyz opposite number Geoffrey Oputi in the race for the Golden Boot accolade. Mathews, who missed the gong by a whisker in the preceding season after being nudged aside by Ulinzi's James Saruni, said he is confident of a bumper harvest this season including laying claim to a 20th Kenyan Premer League title. He made the cut after single-handedly leading Gor Mahia to the Football Kenya Federation Cup title following his outstanding exploits during the exhilarating finals at Nyayo Stadium on July 5, where he made daredevil saves to deny arch-rivals AFC Leopards two post-match penalties. “My new season's objective is to help the club to a 20th title. I also look to cap off my career with the Golden Boot,” said Gad. “I believe I'm already on course for another nomination. My only threat now is Kakamega Homeboyz goalkeeper Geoffrey Oputi. Whereas he has kept five clean sheets this season, I have managed four thus far. I predict a tight race between us,” said Gad. Mathews has urged KÓgalo ardent fans not to read too much into their back-to-back losses against Kakamega Homeboyz who beat them 2-1 at Bukhungu Stadium and Nairobi City Sars who drubbed them 2-0 at Nyayo Stadium, insisting the two matches merely served to push them out of their comfort zone. After maintaining a splendid show that saw them maintain an eight-match unbeaten run, the setbacks saw the record Kenyan champions slump to the seventh position on the log with 18 points, seven adrift leaders Homeboyz. However, Gad insists the record Kenyan champions are not ready to experience the loss they suffered in the preceding season when they let the title slip through their fingers after four consecutive wins. “I look to a glorious season with Gor Mahia. It was painful surrendering the title to Tusker last season but I believe we are in a far much better position to reclaim our lost glory this time around,” said Mathews. “I can't really say we have been getting the script all wrong in our recent encounters and especially in the last two where we suffered back-to-back defeats. “It's only a minor setback. Losing matches is normal in football. We hope to bounce back in our fixture against Nzoia Sugar at Wundanyi Stadium on Wednesday,” said Gad. “Homeboyz might be our biggest obstacle to the title at the moment. I've watched them play and I must agree they possess a great depth to charge for the title this season.”