Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has dwarfed his One Kenya Alliance co-principals in the battle for the party's presidential ticket. Kalonzo has topped the search for the Oka presidential flagbearer, emerging as the most favourite to secure the coveted ticket. According to details gleaned together from the Oka technical committee, the former vice president topped at least three simulations. This even as the Oka principals- Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo - retreat to Elementaita, Nakuru, today to review the report by the technical committee working on the presidential nomination formula. In the first set, Kalonzo has been proposed as the Oka presidential flagbearer with Musalia as his possible running mate. The second simulation proposes that Kalonzo be paired with Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua as the deputy president. Karua is the leader of the Mount Kenya Unity forum that brings together a section of political bigwigs from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard. The third and final proposition suggests a Kalonzo-Moses Wetang'ula ticket for the August 9 General Election. Wetang'ula is the Bungoma senator. Kanu chairman Gideon Moi did not feature in any of the simulations since he hails from the Rift Valley-a region seen as a political bedrock of Deputy President William Ruto. A source within the technical committee that has been holed up in meetings in Elementaita, Nakuru, told the Star that the team had done its work. “We have concluded the task the principals gave us. Now it is upon them to make the ultimate decision,” said the source who sought anonymity as he is not authorised to speak for Oka. The committee is said to have explored various variables in arriving at the proposed line ups including the ability of each of the principals to garner votes nationwide. They are also said to have looked at the financial war-chest at the disposal of each of the presidential hopefuls to fund a presidential race against rivals. The Oka chiefs will today formally receive the report containing the simulations amid rising tensions within their camps. It has emerged that Musalia might not have sent all his representatives to the technical committee for the crucial three-day assignment. This has exposed the political intrigues roiling the Oka outfit amid reports of overtures from Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga. On Tuesday, Kakamega senator Cleopas Malala, a key Musalia ally, wondered why there was another retreat, yet the task force had ‘completed its work’ long ago. “They should give us a presidential candidate. The technical team had already come up with the modalities of identifying a candidate. These retreats will not help us. Time is running out,” he said.