The beleaguered Cricket Kenya is set to usher in a new office on February 26, the Cricket Normalization Committee has confirmed. The committee, appointed by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed in March last year, said the polls would take place at Moi Stadium, Kasarani from 9 a.m. “The Cricket Normalization Committee wishes to notify Cricket Kenya stakeholders and the public that under Article 23.6 (a) of the Cricket Kenya Constitution (2021), a notice of election for office bearers is hereby issued,” said the committee in a statement released on Saturday. “The elections will be held on Saturday, February 26 at Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani from 9.00 am.” Dr Kenneth Mutuma has been appointed to head the Independent Elections Panel constituted to preside over the exercise. Ms Marcela Sinda will serve as a secretary while Mr Omore Osendo, Ms Lujain Abbas, Ms Fatuma Abdullahi, Mr Stephen Owino and Mr Fred Majimbo Luganda will serve on the panel as members. “The Independent Elections Panel is mandated to conduct Cricket Kenya elections, ensure compliance with the Sports Act and other relevant laws, Cricket Kenya Constitution (2021) and the Cricket Kenya Electoral code in ensuring a free and fair Cricket Kenya Election.” Part of their mandate will be to vet applications for all candidates vying during the Cricket Kenya elections, by the Cricket Kenya Constitution and the Cricket Kenya Elections code. “They will also announce and declare the duly elected officials of Cricket Kenya and submit a report to the Sports Registrar and Normalization Committee within 7 days upon completion of the exercise.” The Independent Elections Panel will in due cause share the calendar of its activities with the public. On March 16, 2021, the Cabinet Secretary for Sports Amina Mohamed appointed the Cricket Normalization Committee to lead an all-inclusive process that would see the return of normalcy in the Sport of cricket in Kenya. The mandate of the Committee is to coordinate the finalization of the Draft Constitution and ensure its validation in line with the requirements of the Sports Act 2013 and the International Cricket Council (ICC) Statutes. It is also tasked with ensuring the smooth running of Cricket Kenya’s operations including team preparations for local and international events. The committee was also established to facilitate the compliance of Cricket Kenya to the ICC requirements and facilitate the election of new officials as per the validated Constitution; It will hand over Cricket Kenya to newly elected officials after a successful election. The committee will recommend to the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Culture and Heritage long-lasting solutions to the problems facing Cricket Kenya. Since its inauguration, the Committee has achieved key milestones as stipulated in its mandate. First, to ensure the finalization of the draft constitution, the Committee reviewed existing documents, mapped, and engaged all Cricket stakeholders including players, umpires and scorers, the International Cricket Council. It also engaged former officials of Cricket Kenya, Regional Cricket Sports Organizations and Cricket Sports Clubs previously registered by the Registrar of Societies, Cricket Kenya staff, Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies. The draft constitution was submitted to the stakeholders for comments and views and eventually validated on 22nd October 2021.