Some Kwale residents have decried the rise in the cost of cooking gas in the region. They said gas prices have been soaring since last year contributing to the economic hardships. Binti Khamis Kadide said the hiked cost of gas refilling has forced some residents to go back to firewood and charcoal for cooking. Kadide said the price of refilling a small six-kilogramme gas cylinder has risen to between Sh1350 and Sh1500 from Sh700. She said at least, every month the cost goes up by Sh50, attributing last year's rise in fuel to the sudden hiked prices. The residents resolved to use cooking gas as it was deemed cheaper than paraffin and charcoal, a clean source of energy and the quickest way to cook. The charcoal price had shot up following measures by the government against illegal logging and charcoal burning. However, the current situation has made it impossible for some to continue using cooking gas as they seek alternatives. Kadide said families are currently suffering due to the high cost of living. She called upon the government to intervene, saying the efforts to fight global warming might flop because some residents will go back to cutting trees for firewood. Kadide said many cannot afford to buy paraffin and charcoal daily. Many of the residents are currently recovering from the pandemic that rendered thousands jobless and crippled many businesses. The hotels and tourism industry was hard hit, which is the most dependable source of income by a majority of Kwale residents. At the moment, the government is campaigning for green and renewable energy to address environmental pollution and combat the effects of climate change. Baraka Faki, a resident, said the responsible authorities should consider controlling the cost of fuel as they play a major role in battling the negative impact of climate. He said many people depend on cooking gas and the rise in prices will trigger another economic crisis. Faki said the government should review and regulate the prices as it did with petrol and diesel last year. He said the hiked prices has made the cost of some commodities go up, mostly in hotels, eatery places and bakeries. “If the cost will remain high, we will go back to using firewood and charcoal,” Faki said. The use of firewood especially in rural areas has caused many to suffer numerous health conditions and is highly discouraged. Resident Hamisi Ali said it is very frustrating for basic things like cooking gas to shoot with no excuse. He said the hiked prices have slowed productivity. Ali urged the state to alleviate the suffering of the common citizens who struggle to earn a living. Edited by Kiilu Damaris