BAT has been named the top employer in Kenya and Africa for the fifth time in a row. The Top Employers Institute announced a virtual award ceremony. The certification reiterates BAT Kenya’s sustained commitment to provide and uphold policies and practices that offer employees a conducive and productive place of work. The recognition mirrors the announcement of the BAT Group as the Global Top Employer for 2022 in three regions – Africa, Asia Pacific and Europe, and Top Employer in 33 countries across Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and Latin America. The Top Employers Institute certification is based on an extensive review of employer practices across six human resource domains and 20 topics, including people strategy, work environment, talent acquisition, learning, well-being, diversity and inclusion and more. Top Employers Institute CEO David Plink said the institute continued to prioritise excellent practices at workplaces even during the pandemic. He added that BAT has proved its unwavering commitment to its employees on an international level that spans numerous countries. "They join a small group of companies that have achieved a global certification through the Top Employers Programme. We are excited to celebrate and applaud them for their achievement in 2022,” he said. BAT Kenya Managing Director Crispin Achola said the company is being honored to receive the Top Employer certification for the fifth consecutive year. "This certification recognises BAT's inclusive, engaging culture and innovative working environment. Guided by our Ethos, we are continually striving to maintain a workplace where employees feel well-supported," Achola said. “Our employees play a crucial role in our purpose to build a better tomorrow by reducing the health impact of our business, driving environmental excellence and delivering robust corporate governance across our business. We are proud to be recognised for our commitment to building a purpose-driven organisation,” Achola added. The Top Employer certification process is conducted annually by the Top Employers Institute, an independent organisation that studies the employee offerings of major employers around the world. The certification recognises employers that provide best-in-class employment practices, allowing employees to develop themselves while driving business results. Participating companies undergo a rigorous assessment process which includes an extensive review of employer practices. Several validation sessions are held where evidence of these practices is provided, and an independent audit of the findings is also carried out.