Businesswoman Agnes Kagure officially joined the Nairobi gubernatorial race on Friday after launching her bid at Kasarani indoor arena. The tycoon is hoping to become Nairobi’s first elected female and fourth Governor. While announcing her candidature, Kagure unveiled a five-point agenda that she said will transform Nairobi if elected. “I want to move Nairobi from being the city of lamentation to the city of jubilation,” she stated. Kagure announced that her manifesto will involve reorganizing the public transport sector to ease the movement of people. Noting that a lot of money and time is wasted in traffic jams, she pledged to ensure that becomes a thing of the past once she takes over the leadership mantle. “We have what it takes to transform our fortunes and turn our city into a haven of greater hope and shared prosperity. I will work with all stakeholders to decongest the city and bid farewell to traffic jams for good,” Kagure added. On unemployment, the businesswoman announced that her administration will create one million jobs in her five-year tenure in office “I will create 200,000 jobs annually and ensure that youths have equal opportunity to get employment in the great city of Nairobi,” Kagure noted. She noted that her administration will set up investments platforms where small and medium-sized enterprises(SMEs) will explore and excel in their ventures. “We will expand the horizon of opportunities to give Nairobians a platform to excel,” Kagure said. Security Kagure said her administration will install security lights in all 85 wards in Nairobi saying it will help in curbing insecurity that has become a thorny issue in the city. The businesswoman promised to work closely with security agents in the county in ensuring that law and order is maintained in the city. She pledged to revamp the city hall's inspectorate department by ensuring its officers, commonly known as kanjos, are well trained and equipped to perform their mandate. To achieve all these, she said she will work closely with city MCAs in delivering her mandate and manifesto to the people of Nairobi. Support NMS Despite NMS receiving attacks from a section of politicians, Kagure commended it for impacting the lives of Nairobians positively. According to her, the achievements made by NMS through its director-general Mohammed Badi is a testament that her vision for Nairobi is achievable. Her bid launch received the blessings of the Kikuyu council of elders who endorsed her for the seat and donated Sh2 million to facilitate her campaigns. The elders led by Wachira Kiago urged Kagure to maintain respect while seeking votes and to refrain from abusing her competitors. "Agnes when you win the elections please work for the people of Nairobi. Look out for women and support them," Kiago said. A section of Nairobi MCAs graced the events led by Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere who vowed to support her bid. "Women in Nairobi need good governance and when we elect Kagure, we are supporting their leadership," he said. Also in attendance was former Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi, who claimed to represent the ODM leader Raila Odinga. The 47-year-old businesswoman now joins incumbent governor Ann Kananu, Senator Johnson Sakaja, Westlands Mp Tim Wanyonyi, Makadara MP George Aladwa, Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia and former Starehe Mp Bishop Margaret Wanjiru in the battle for Nairobi governor's seat. Personal life Kagure started her career life in 1995 as a house manager in Nairobi before finding her way into the insurance world. Her service and dedication as a salesperson saw her voted the best insurance salesperson for three years in a row by the Association of Kenya Insurers. She was later promoted to a unit manager in 1999 where she recruited, trained and managed agents. Ten years after joining insurance, in 2005, she was elevated to agency manager in charge of several units and agents. What started as typical work in the insurance world ended up being a passion that saw her start an insurance agency, Insurance Consulting Group (ICG). Her career grew in leaps and bounds, so much so, that she also worked as the Executive Financial Advisor at CFC Stanbic. She was involved in the merger between American life insurance company (Alico) and CFC bank that led to the formation of CFC life assurance Limited. In 2011, Kagure was named in the top 40 Women Under 40, an annual list of women who have risen to positions of influence in Kenya before the age of 40. In July 2019, she was elected patron of the Kenya University Students’ Organisation (KUSO) and she is a recipient of the prestigious award of peace ambassador by the King of Thailand. -Edited by B. Marita