Kiss FM's Kamene Goro is afraid of getting a baby as she cannot fathom carrying a pregnancy to term. In a recent interview with Dr Ofweneke, Kamene said she would love to be a mum but there is a sequence of problems as to why she doesn't want to at the time. "This whole nine months pregnant, then I hear things like your body rejects a pregnancy. I mean it is very scary," she said. Kamene said although there are other ways of having a child, she finds them a bit difficult for her. "Have they told you about the giving birth part? Weh! I don't know how the baby is going to come out as both options are a bit difficult for me." The radio presenter said she cannot take the surrogacy option. "If it's going to get a baby it has to be mine. I have respect for all mothers, including mine, as it is not an easy thing," she said. Kamene said she is not ready for the responsibility that comes with having a baby. "I want to do the things I want and focus on me. I like it when I can wake up and say, I wanna go to Zanzibar," she said. "Your whole life changes and your life becomes about this other human being. Every decision you make, the priority is always about this baby. Being a middle child at home, I have been the one taking care of my siblings and I have gotten to a point in my life I need to focus on myself." Kamene also spoke about her new relationship, saying it's the best she has ever been in. "What I like about this relationship is that I feel very secure. I have no worries with him, he is happy and consistent. He is a dope guy and very serious." She dismissed claims that she has not gotten over her divorce. "I was over my divorce very fast. The reason I talk about it is that I learnt some fundamental lessons from it that women need to know," she said. Kamene said many women come to her telling her how upset they are in marriages and even in relationships. "These are the same thing I learnt in my failed marriage and so I am trying to share some lessons," she said. "Always pick you even when a relationship isn't working. The minute you get married you live for other people, your family and children. And a lot of women forget themselves."