Polls agency IEBC has unveiled plans to set up an IT Service system for use in the August 9 general elections. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has invited suppliers to install and implement the IT Service Management System at the IEBC Head Office, Anniversary towers in Nairobi. “The IT Service Management system will support the users at the Head Office as well as the general public on technical issues during an election,” the Wafula Chebukati-led commission said. The polls agency said there is greater demand for effective and efficient service delivery and therefore, the system would help improve public perception and end-user satisfaction in IEBC operations. “It is therefore critical that the IT Service Management system delivers more personalized, unified and consistent messaging internally and that can be scaled up for use during elections,” the commission said. IEBC says the system would be scalable to an unlimited number of agents or personnel during peak election periods “without replacement of any installed hardware or generic software.” The new tender has been floated at a time the commission is yet to conclude tendering of the Kenya Integrated Election Management System after the process was marred by tender rows. The agency, though, says the IT Service management will help it to effectively deliver, monitor and support IT services. “The system shall be modular allowing for addition and activation of modules as and when the need arises,” the IEBC said in its invitation to suppliers. The features include an ICT Service Desk, Asset Management and Call management, among other basic features, and would be linked to the commission’s existing IT infrastructure. “The bidder shall be required to assess and recommend the improvements on the existing processes, and procedures for effective delivery of IT Services in the commission.” “The successful bidder shall be required to carry out an initial assessment of the existing processes and recommend improvements in order to improve on ICT service delivery,” the notice reads. IEBC says the system will have the capacity to track, report, escalate and manage ICT Incidences arising from the technology deployed in the election and in the commission’s operations. “The bidder shall be required to carry out an infrastructure capacity assessment as well as to assess how to integrate the existing infrastructure to the proposed solution.” “The bidder should ensure that the solution is designed and sized adequately to support at least one thousand (1,000) concurrent calls with about 50 agents,” the Chebukati-led team said. Also sought is that the system should provide an effective way of deploying, operating, maintaining, upgrading, and disposing of ICT assets in the commission. The commission has also hinted at a possibility of procuring additional equipment to support its existing ICT infrastructure. “Should the proposed solution require any specialized hardware platform other than the normal servers and network infrastructure, the bidder shall be required to submit a separate quote for any additional hardware or infrastructure components proposed,” the commission said. The project duration, IEBC says, shall not exceed more than four months and seeks the same set-up by March, but the cost would be based on a three-year ownership plan. For the call centre, the commission says the system should provide a call logging and tracking module that will be seamlessly integrated with the existing Unified Communication System (UCS). “This is to enable tracking and logging of calls. The system should be accessible via a public number or extension if a user is utilizing the telephone system,” the IEBC said. Whenever a user makes a call to the call centre agents, he or she will be requested to provide the specific information required to assist with incident identification and resolution of calls. “All incoming calls will be logged in the Incident management system for easy tracking. For users reporting incidences through the email, the system should allow for uploading of any relevant document that will assist in resolving the incident.” The call centre, the commission added, should be one with the capability to handle large volumes of call traffic. It would be fitted with tools for voice, video, messaging, instant messaging, contact centre services, and mobility capabilities. “The service should be secure, scalable, easy to manage, and rich in features such as instant messaging, presence, click-to-call, phone control, voice, video, visual voicemail, and web collaboration,” IEBC said. In terms of asset management, IEBC says the system should have the capability to register “the thousands of ICT configuration items installed in the commission premises and track changes that may occur in these items in order to streamline ICT support.” The commission says the system would be a “responsive web-based and accessible through the desktop, laptop, mobile phone or any handheld devices and support multiple browsers.” During the project Implementation, IEBC says, the bidder will be reporting to the director ICT, through the appointed project manager on all matters of the project.