The Wiper National Executive Committee on Monday resolved that party leader Kalonzo Musyoka will go all the way to the ballot in the August election. Chairman Chirau Ali Mwakwere said the former Vice President cannot vacate the race unless advised by the party in a decision arrived at in a national delegate’s conference. “Our party leader Kalonzo Musyoka cannot abandon the race. His candidature was decided by the NDC. We had resolved he will vie for president,” he said. The former Matuga MP said that since all those who declared they would vie are in the race to the end, the Wiper leader has no route to opt out of the competition. “Even on Sunday, our friends met and decided that Musalia Mudavadi runs to the end. For Kalonzo, therefore, it will be for us to decide and then he follows,” Mwakwere said. However, some Wiper insiders suggested that a deal with ODM leader Raila Odinga was possible in the event Kalonzo’s chances are found to be slim. They also dismissed assertions that the One Kenya Alliance has been swept away by the Mudavadi and DP William Ruto working arrangement. Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu said the party still holds the position that Raila’s Azimio la Umoja would be the point of call should all other plans come to nought. “Looking at my earlier comments, we have said if Kalonzo Musyoka will not be a presidential candidate, the only alliance he will join is Azimio where Raila Odinga is,” Mulu said. “That is why he walked out of the Bomas ANC meeting due to Ruto's presence. Ruto and our teams are like water and petrol.” Mulu said, for now, they would sit and see how the numbers would play out in the face of Musalia’s exit. The MP said much as the events at Bomas may have taken them by surprise, they had worked on different models. “If one doesn’t work, you move to the next one. We will sit down and sieve through the scenarios,” he said. “People have already engaged their mind in what needs to be done. Remember we have been talking to Karua and Muturi. There are still people we can talk with.” He said, “What is critical now is to analyse with Musalia leaving, what kind of numbers Oka will be losing?” “Is it possible to get a replacement for the same number? If not there, there is still the option of saying ‘if you can’t beat them, join them’. But that team would be Azimio.” “We will always have a way forward and a stand as a party and its people. You can see how aggressive and determined Kalonzo is to bring the team together,” Kibwezi East MP Jessica Mbalu said. The same position was held by Kanu which has dismissed assertions that Oka is dead following the unfolding events. Fred Okango, Kanu Secretary for Political Affairs, said Oka is an institution that cannot collapse by the mere departure of a principal. “We are going to see a lot of activities in the coming weeks. Many meetings are going on and more people are joining Oka, it has not collapsed but moving on,” Okango said. The official said the governing body will convene a meeting and give way forward ahead of August. “Starting this week, we will see the mother of rallies. We have meetings,” he told the Star on the phone. Mwakwere dismissed claims of Oka's death, saying such can only be asserted by the principals. “Have the principals told you that Oka has disintegrated? Oka is a caucus and the people who attend meetings are the principals. They have not made pronouncements,” he said. Details emerged Monday that Oka was originally registered by the Wiper Democratic Movement as a political formation. The principals Mudavadi, Kalonzo, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, and Gideon though, had not signed a coalition agreement but had agreed to work together. Okango said their walkout was because ANC did not inform the leaders that they had invited Ruto to the event. “We honoured the invite but they never alerted us that we shall have a surprise guest, yet in our case, we told them Raila would be in attendance,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris