Selection exercise of the Pangani Affordable Housing units kicked off on Friday with the 48 original tenants choosing their houses. The exercise which was spearheaded by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services marked a huge mile stone with the project taking heading towards completion. "This is a very special day as we have the 48 tenants who used to live in this land. They are here to select their houses as they were to be given the first priority when this project is completed,” NMS Deputy Director in charge of housing, Marion Rono said. The original 48 tenants of Pangani will be part of the first group that will take ownership of the new units. In May 2020,  each of the tenants received Sh600,000  to facilitate their resettlement rent for two years as construction works continued. Each tenant will be allocated a new house for which they will pay Sh8, 000 monthly for 30 years. David Sirma , representing Technofin which is the developer of the project revealed that the apartments are divided into two, where the affordable housing ones have 952 units and the commercial ones with 610 units. “All the affordable units are sold out and we have a few of the commercial ones going at Sh9 million are still remaining," he said. For the affordable, a one bedroom unit was going for Sh1 million, two– bedrooms at Sh2.5 million and three-bedrooms at Sh3 million. As part of the project, social amenities will also be set up within the compound. Infrastructure services like water have adequately been addressed with sufficient water supply storage being factored in two level basements. A basement parking in the courtyard with playgrounds on top will also be set up, a playground, and a supermarket. In addition, NMS announced that jointly with the county Government of Nairobi, it will soon break ground for 10 other projects for the affordable housing to deliver about 3,000 housing units. Pangani being the pilot project is estimated to cost Sh25 billion and sits on 5.2 acres of land valued at Sh4 billion. It is among seven estates which are under the affordable housing project in Nairobi; Jevanjee, Ngong road, Suna Road estates, Uhuru and Inspectorate staff quarters. The official groundbreaking of Pangani Estate was meant to happen in August 2018 but was postponed to December the same year when President Uhuru Kenyatta was expected to launch it. The project commenced on May 18, 2020 and was officially launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 30, 2020.