Lugari MP Ayub Savula has been asked to concentrate on marketing his preferred political formation and leave ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi alone. Kakamega ANC branch secretary Prof Amukowa Anangwe said Mudavadi is a seasoned politician who knows what he wants and does not require advice from Savula. He said the former vice president will be on the ballot as a presidential candidate and Savula should forthwith stop lying to his newfound master that he can force him to change his mind on the presidency and join them. “Now that Savula has chosen his preferred political formation, he should focus on selling the agenda of his new home and stop dragging Mudavadi in his discussions since ANC has nothing to do with Azimio, which he chose to support,” he said. “What Mudavadi is doing is looking for friends who are ready to support his cause on the presidency,” he added. Anangwe is the head of the Mudavadi presidential campaign secretariat. Savula declared he had joined the Raila Odinga-led Azimio La Umoja movement during the Western Azimio rally in Bukhungu Stadium on December 31. He, however, said he was not defecting from ANC. Teso South MP Oku Kaunya (ANC) and a number of MCAs also crossed over to ODM. Kaunya will now face off with Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong who has announced that he will contest for the Teso North MP seat after his second and final term in office. Since joining Azimio, Savula has vowed to make sure that Mudavadi works with Raila ahead of the August 9 General Election. On Monday, Savula said he would quit ANC if the party decides to work with Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance (UDA). There have been speculations that Mudavadi could be working on a political deal with Ruto. Mudavadi has denied having been approached by anyone for a political deal, saying he will be on the ballot. “Mudavadi will be on the ballot, notwithstanding activities by such agents of confusion,” he said. He said the ANC National Delegates Conference (NDC) slated for January 23 at the Bomas of Kenya will ratify the position that the party will field a presidential candidate. Edited by A.N