Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Wednesday urged detectives to thoroughly probe schools fires and ensure perpetrators are brought to book. Duale said schools are serious investments for the future and those destroying such property are criminals who must be punished. The MP spoke at Garissa High School where he attended a consultative meeting between education stakeholders and security officials led by deputy county commissioner Jacob Kipuri. In his constituency, two schools—Garissa High and NEP Girls—had fire incidents with two dormitories razed down in November. Last week, another dormitory was burnt at Garissa High School. The only dormitory at Bura Boarding Secondary School in Fafi subcounty was also burnt. The legislator said cases of arson targeting school property must stop. “We cannot pretend things are okay when they are not. Something is wrong somewhere in our schools and it must be fixed urgently. "If we have a few students or subordinate staff or whoever it is behind this unfortunate incidences, let the investigative agencies bring them to book,” Duale said. He added that some of the learning institutions have taken ages and resources to build. "Garissa High is one of the oldest national schools in northeastern. It has produced high caliber human capital and professionals from our region. We cannot accept such things to continue happening,” Duale said. The MP said the Garissa Township CDF will renovate and rebuild the burnt dormitories through the Emergency fund, adding that parents will not be charged. “An investment in education always pays the highest returns. No other investment yields as great a return. An educated workforce is the foundation of every community and the future of every economy. "Let us all jealously guard these learning institutions. Parents should also nurture good behaviour on their children,” Duale said. During the meeting it was agreed that schools install CCTV cameras. The school security team was also urged to be vigilant as they will be held accountable for future incidents. Duale also urged the education stakeholders to focus on the upcoming KCSE examinations to attain a mean score of 7.8 up from 6.8 last year. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)