Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee said on Saturday Harambee Starlets will, undoubtedly, travel to Uganda for their Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifier scheduled for February 17. This comes amid suspicion that a rogue official of the ousted Football Kenya Federation, might have written a letter to the Confederation of African Football (Caf), withdrawing Harambee Starlets from the qualifiers. Enraged Kenyan football fans thronged the social media to vent their spleen as the news went viral late Friday. FKF Caretaker Committee leagues and competitions secretary, Ali Amour, said they have since raised concerns with relevant authorities, and would issue a detailed statement later in the day. “Presently, we can only treat the reports as mere rumours given we are yet to receive official communication from Caf confirming Kenya's withdrawal,” said Amour. “As far as we are concerned the match between Kenya and Uganda is still on, and Harambee Starlets have already reported to camp for preparations,” added Amour. Amour said they would also pursue leads to establish the author of the purported letter if, indeed, it was written. The Starlets are scheduled to flex muscles with Uganda's Crested Cranes in the first leg of the Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers on February 17 before the return leg in Nairobi on February 23. Fufa said in a statement released late Friday that they had received official communication from Caf confirming the withdrawal of Kenya from the qualifiers. “We regret to inform you that we have just received Kenya FA’s correspondence informing us of their withdrawal from Women Afcon-Morocco 2022,” read the statement in part. “Consequently, matches 45 and 46 are cancelled as well as the missions of all designated officials,” concluded the statement. The alleged withdrawal of Kenya could hand Uganda a direct ticket to the 2022 edition of the continental showpiece that will be held in Morocco in August. “Uganda are automatically qualified to the next round of the competition,” read a communication from Caf. 