The President of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) Richard Ngatia would the new Nairobi Governor if elections were held today. A new survey released by Mizani Africa reveals that he is the preferred candidate in a poll that was conducted between January 5 to 12 this year across the 17 sub counties. The survey that targeted 2,500 eligible voters puts Ngatia at 29.2 per cent in terms of popularity followed by former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru at 24.1 per cent. Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi came in third with 19.1 per cent. The polls indicate that 10.7 per cent of the voters interviewed said they will vote for senator Johnson Sakaja as their preferred governor while former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has 5.8 per cent. Businesswoman Agnes Kagure who launched her candidature early this year has 4.2 per cent of the votes The data collection was done on a face to face interviews at the household levels. The margin of error of the survey is +/- 3 with a confidence level of 95 percent. In the senatorial race, Orange Democratic Movement Party Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna was the preferred candidate with 39.1 per cent. He is closely followed by Jubilee's nominated MP Maina Kamanda with 30.1 per cent and coming in third is Fredrick Otieno with 15.1 per cent. In the woman representative race, Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga of the United Democratic Alliance Party led with 28.1 per cent. The current woman rep for Nairobi, Esther Passaris came in second with 22 per cent and CAS Gender Rachel Shebesh was third with 11.9 per cent. With seven months to the General Elections, the race to be part of Nairobi’s third government has started to gain momentum. In an attempt to charm voters and get a listening ear, both the current regime of elected leaders and also the aspirants have started ‘kwa ground’ tours and talks. Nairobi county has 17 sub counties with 85 wards with Jubilee and Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party being the two dominant political parties with the most elected leaders in office. Not falling behind is a section of the Nairobi gubernatorial aspirants, who have embarked on a ‘city tour’, having a consultative meeting with different groups of people in the society. Currently, Nairobi Governor Kananu, Senator Sakaja, MP Wanyonyi, Makadara MP George Aladwa, Bishop Wanjiru, Businesswoman Kagure and Ngatia have declared interest in the gubernatorial race.