ODM leader Raila Odinga on Sunday held a meeting in Kiambu county with mothers of political prisoners. The meeting at Kibichiku secondary school in Kabete and was attended by Embakasi East MP Babu Owino as well as Kikuyu gospel artiste Loise Kim who is eyeing Kiambu Woman Rep seat. No other notable politician especially from Kiambu county attended. Raila said the visit was in remembrance of his mum who died while he was under political detention, as well as honour other mothers of political prisoners. The ODM leader said his government will create a commercial industry in every county to spur economic growth and at the same time promote a sustainable agricultural chain and create employment opportunities. At the same time, Raila said he has an agenda for the youth where his administration will create a loan kitty where the youth will repay after seven years when their business break even. “This will only be paid after seven years only when their businesses start making a profit.’’ “I will ensure that these mothers of political prisoners get recognised as I also create good health care for our people while I also champion for the creation of jobs to our youths, “he said. Raila further condemned sentiments by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi during a political rally in Eldoret on Saturday. He said Kenyans desire a country where everybody is free to live anywhere and do business without fear. “We cannot continue profiling people as 'kwe kwe' (weeds) and 'madoadoa. We cannot afford to go back where we came from.” He said the country can’t afford to revisit what happened in 2007-2008 during the post-election violence. Raila pledged to have those displaced by 2007-08 PEV resettled if elected the president in the August general election. The former premier took issue with deputy president William Ruto for failing to tame his political supporters. He further said Ruto cannot account for the millions of shillings he dishes out in public saying he spends more than Sh100 million monthly. He said the pledges he (Raila)has made in his campaigns are realistic since he knows the loopholes that corruption exploits and his government will seek to fix the latter. “He spends more than Sh100 million in the so-called donations monthly and this translates to Sh1.2 billion annually. That is not his own money. That is public stolen money. My government will fix the loopholes that they have been using to loot the public money,’’ Raila said.