Quins assistant coach Patrice Agunda believes the side will have to improve their attack once the Kenya Cup resumes this weekend. The Ngong Road outfit have won three matches and lost once but the former skipper, who is serving his first year in coaching, believes they have to sharpen the attack if they are to feature in the playoffs at the end of the season. "Our attack needs work. We resume training this week and we must look at getting the ball quickly from the ruck and other setpiece platforms to catch defences off-guard. Agunda termed the 23-12 loss to Homeboyz a wake-up call for his charges. “It was a tough game. The league is quite competitive and you can't underestimate any teams. We did not execute well in both facets of play and we must step up going forward,” he added. The club currently sit fourth on the log with 13 points and the assistant coach is confident his charges can qualify for the playoffs. “Last season, we missed the playoffs by a whisker so we are very determined to be there this time and the good start to the season helps us,” added Agunda The eight-time champions recently appointed Senegalese tactician Amadi Diallo and Agunda has hailed his impact on the club. “He has really brought an identity to the club and tweaked some of our facets of play. He is good at management and is happy with the team,” noted Agunda. Quins beat neighbours Impala 29-20, Nondies 24-6, and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology 21-20. Quins face a tough January when they meet inform Menengai Oilers on Saturday before facing Strathmore Leos, Kabras, and champions KCB in the subsequent matches. Elsewhere, Butere beat Webuye 20-5 to win the  Webuye 10's tournament.  Floyd Wabwire, Frank Mukaisi,  Eugine Asava, and Brighton Bakasa scored Butere’s tries. Allan Kasiti was named the Most Valuable Player. To reach the final, Butere edged Olympus 15-12 in the semis and defeated Bukembe 12-0. Lugulu, on the other hand, beat Ndalu 22-10 in the semis and whipped Old Monks 40-0 in the quarters. Ndalu finished third after winning 42-5 against Olympus. Chimoyi scooped the bowl after a 7-5 win over Webuye II. 