Yes, shaving can be a challenge for both women and men especially if you’re prone to shaving irritations, cuts and bumps. For some people, waxing works miracles and can swear by it, while for others, shaving is their go-to as it is painless and affordable. Dermatologist Leonard Kamau told the Star that, that it is actually improper shaving methods that irritate and leave bumps on the skin. Here are the common mistakes he debunked: Mistake #1: Dry shaving “If you have sensitive skin, look for a gentle formula that ingredients like aloe vera or coconut oil which helps to soothe the skin,” he said. Dry shaving is the leading cause of scratches, razor burns, cuts and ingrown. Kamau recommended wetting the skin before shaving or using shaving creams beforehand, as it prepares the skin for the cut. Mistake #2: Switching direction In a previous interview with skin expert and dermatologist Dr Roop Saini, she was against shaving in all directions. “Always shave in the direction that your hair grows, not against it. Shaving against the grain tugs at the hair, which pulls it away from the skin before cutting it off and can then lead to an increased risk of irritation,” she said. Mistake #3: Shaving before showering According to the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD), the best time to shave is right after taking a shower, as your skin will be moist, free of excess oil and dead skin cells. “Before you shower, your skin has dead cells and oils, which can clog up the blade. When you make mistake number one, shaving dry, chances of you getting a cut are heightened,” Kamau said. Mistake #4: Using old blades “Some people use old razors left in the shower after weeks and do not even care to disinfect before and after use. This can also act as a breeding ground for bacteria and can give you serious infections and irritations,” he said. Kamau advised people to change their blades after using them at least twice. “Disposable blades go for only sh.18, don’t let ignorance cost your health. Keep a few new ones stocked in your bathroom, so you don’t have to worry about running out of them in times of need.” Mistake #5: Over clumping the blade with hair. “The rule of shave, rinse and repeat after each stroke should apply. This ensures the blade does not become dull and clog up your pores in the process,” Kamau said. He advised on applying less pressure which saves you from cuts and going over each spot once, to avoid irritations. Mistake #6: Little or no aftercare “Be sure to apply a hydrating moisturizer to soothe your skin and help prevent any irritations from a lack of moisture. Find a fragrance free moisturiser, and apply it to the area as an aftershave. Avoid any alcohol-based products which can trigger inflammation.” He said.