New Harambee Starlets'head coach Alex Alumira faces a selection headache ahead of their Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifier against the Crested Cranes match. Despite the uncertainty surrounding Starlets' ultimate match against Uganda, Alumira will have to make bold decisions in regard to his preferred first 11. The 39-year-old coach assembled top-notch players both local and foreign-based for the two-legged decider slated for February 17th away and in Nairobi six days later. It is in the forward area where the former Vihiga Queens tactician is spoilt for choice. Tereza Engesha, who won the 'Golden Boot' in 2019 after scoring 36 goals, is in imperious form once more. She's the leading scorer in the Kenya Women's Premier League with nine goals after seven matches. Jentrix Shikangwa was the top scorer in the Cecafa Club champions League qualifiers with eight goals and managed six goals for Vihiga before sealing her dream move to Turkey last week. Mwanahalima Adam, Starlets most skillful attacker, is also in the reckoning. The speedy winger was the top scorer last season with 23 goals and her impressive shows earned her a move to Hakkaragicu club in the Turkish top division league. The trio has been ever-present in the Starlets' team. Gaspo FC pair of Mercy Airo and Elizabeth Wambui continue to break records with the Gatundu-based team. They are the reason why Gaspo are second in the league and remain Vihiga's title challengers. Essie Akida was recalled to the team following her performance at PAOK women's team in Greece while Violet Wanyonyi will be itching for her third cap. Alumira said  names will not influence his choices and every player must earn her place. "Any of the players in the current squad can make the final list. I won't bank on names and previous achievements. It will all be about performance in training." He added: "Due diligence will be done to all the players and the team will be balanced. Ours is to continue training as we wait for the way forward. Players who played in the league on Saturday are already back with the national team in camp."   