Gor Mahia skipper Harun Shakava has reiterated their burning desire to lay claim to a possible 20th Kenyan Premier League title this season even as the club grapples with grave financial challenges. The record Kenyan champions are in an unimpressive fifth spot on the log after blowing hot and cold in their recent fixtures, largely due to the growing disquiet among demoralised players who have gone for months without pay. Shakava linked up with the side after a two-year stint with Nkana in the Zambian Super League, and it wasn't long before he reclaimed the armband following the demotion of midfielder Kenneth Muguna who has since decamped to Tanzanian Premier League side, Azam. While admitting there exists a crisis at K'Ogalo, Shakava said they were ready to brush aside their nagging financial predicaments to remain in contention for silverware. “I can't really say we stand a high chance of winning the title given our position at the moment, but we shall, nevertheless, battle relentlessly despite the challenges,” said Shakava. “It's really difficult to talk about our targets right now because the situation is tense at the club. Hopefully, things will improve, and only then shall we be able to lay the ground for our objectives,” he added. Shakava dismissed claims that the performance of the existing crop of players had fallen below expectations, insisting they had toiled hard to be where they are. “We have lost only three matches from 16 fixtures. Isn't that good enough? I reckon we are still on the right track and we will do all we can to remain in contention for the title no matter how remote our chances are becoming by the day,” he said. Shakava's comments come exactly a day after reports emerged the club had fired head coach Mark Harrison and his assistant Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo over the declining curve in their performance. Omolo has since come out strongly to rubbish the reports terming them as rumours being peddled by individuals keen on fuelling trouble at the club. “Anybody with a rational mind understands that financial difficulties are at the heart of our recent poor run in the league. It has got nothing to do with the capacity of the technical bench or the ability of the players to deliver on the pitch,” said Omolo. Omolo called on the players to embrace and learn to live with the existing crisis while the administration continues to grope for viable solutions. “It comes a time we must learn to be selfless in life. We need to understand that the challenges we are facing as a club are not permanent and see what we can do to help at this crucial moment, how we can contribute,” said Omolo.