Moiben MP Silas Tiren has bowed to pressure and now says he supports Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid in the August 9 election. Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny and Kesses MP Swarrup Mishra are the only key leaders in the region yet to join Ruto’s hustler movement. Tiren is one of the MPs in the North Rift who has been critical to DP Ruto’s bid. The MP said he was concerned that during DP Ruto’s mega rally in Eldoret he was among those accused of ganging up with Ruto’s opponents. “That is not true. I am a small person and cannot fight Ruto politically,” he said. Speaking on Wednesday in his constituency, the MP said he respects the DP, wishes him well and wants him elected as President. Tiren asked residents to also give him a chance to continue serving as their MP. “I am not interested in the presidency but please give me chance to continue being MP so that we work together,” Tiren said. The MP, who has been a close ally of Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, did not however indicate if he will join UDA. “We were all elected on Jubilee ticket and you can not belong to two parties. I am waiting for the right time before I leave Jubilee to join the party that will be there during that time,” Tiren said. If he joins UDA, he will have to battle it out with other contenders eyeing the UDA ticket ahead of party primaries in April. During the mega rally in Eldoret, last Saturday, Tiren, Kesses MP and Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny were named by Ruto’s allies as not deserving re-election because they oppose the DP’s bid. During the rally, remarks by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot on the anti-Ruto MPs have landed the two in trouble. Tiren said he had done his work well especially fighting for the rights of farmers and his stance on agriculture did not mean he was fighting anyone. The MP said his recent move to support the political parties amendment bill in parliament was out of his knowledge that the law was good for democracy in the country. “We were not voting for Jubilee, UDA or Ruto but it was about the law. I urge Kenyans to read it and understand what it entails instead of being misled because of politics,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris