The Directorate of Criminal Investigation coach Daniel Bor says he has big calls to make in regard to his starting lineup with all players proving equal to the task. Bor was initially unhappy with the mass exodus of players, where the club lost five of their stars but he said this has proved to be a blessing in disguise. He said he has been surprised by the high energy levels and renewed vigour shown by the players in training, with the athletes oozing confidence and class. According to Bor, mistakes have been minimised but there's more to come ahead of the Kenya Volleyball Federation National League games at Makande, Mombasa scheduled for February 5-6. The 18-member squad have shown remarkable improvement in the past weeks and Bor admits the toughest challenge ahead of the second leg will be settling on his first-choice team. "I was worried at first that there would be a drop in the level of competition because of the many departures," Bor said. "Players have upped their game in training and am really thrilled to see there's progression. We've just made few changes but there's renewed energy, players willing to learn and step out of their comfort zones. I trust them all because this is the kind of competition needed to fight for honours." "We are spoilt for choice, to be honest. Trimming the squad to 12 will be a Herculean task and zeroing on the starting six seems to be a tall order altogether," Bor highlighted. Joan Barasa, Christabel Siyuyu and Peninah Nanjala will fight for the left attacking slot. Former Pipeline middle blocker Abigael Nafuna and Mercy Iminza will jostle for the centre slot but the latter can also play as a right attacker. "I have time to get my best squad and we remain optimistic that players remain injury-free throughout the season," said Bor. Already, DCI will miss the services of captain Maurine Wekesa —who is expected to be on the sidelines until April — after undergoing knee surgery in mid-December, dealing the sleuths a huge blow. "We won't be with Wekesa for a while but I believe we've got enough cover," Bor concluded.