Mathare United chairman Bob Munro has raised the red flag on the crisis gripping the Kenyan Premier League clubs even as financial constraints continue to bite hard in the wake of the novel Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking exclusively to the Star on Tuesday, Munro threw the gauntlet to the newly appointed Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee to swing into prompt action, while pointing out that any further delay could trigger far-reaching implications. “Our local football is experiencing turmoil and the footballers are suffering immensely. “As I speak now, nine of my players have been locked out of their homes over non-payment of rent. Our efforts alone cannot sustain the clubs. We need external support,” lamented Munro. While confirming that the club had, indeed, received Sh300,000 disbursed by the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee last week, Munro described the amount as too little to keep the clubs afloat. “We appreciate what they've sent but it's a case of a too little too late. It won't even be enough to cover our expenses thus far,” said Munro. “One away match costs roughly Sh350,000 while hosting a home match requires at least Sh150,000,” he added. His plea came hot on the heels of a candid letter he wrote earlier to the newly appointed Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee's head of secretariat, Linda Ogutu, expressing trepidations over the future of local clubs. “In your e-mail on December 23, you reassuringly wrote that you are working with the ministry to resolve and ensure that no club collapses over financial instability,” read the letter in part. “The most vulnerable and likely community-based clubs will collapse in 1-2 weeks. Walkovers will rise as clubs lack funds and/or desperate players boycott matches. Munro attached a chart and related points attributing the clubs' financial problems to a series of escalating external crises. “Today only, nine of the 18 KPL clubs are presently stable financially. Of the nine stable clubs, five are funded by GOK agencies/parastatals. The 9 unstable clubs now owe 2-3 months in salary arrears to players/coaches,” said Munro. Munro said that without urgent and major Sports Ministry/FKF CC grants, FKF PL rankings will soon reflect financial power rather than sporting merit. “FKF PL will increasingly be dominated by clubs funded by the GOK agencies/parastatals.” “Moreover, this imminent FKF PL crisis is also a humanitarian crisis. The collapse of only one club also means the financial collapse of at least 40 innocent and already desperate families, especially as school fees are due this week.” However, the head of the FKF Caretaker Committee secretariat Linda Ogutu confirmed they had already disbursed funds to clubs in a process that began last week. “We began the process of disbursing the funds last week and all the clubs will be receiving their rightful share. I even spoke with Mathare United chief executive officer, Jeckton Obure this morning and he confirmed the funds had already reflected in their account,” said Ogutu. Ogutu's sentiments were echoed by the FKF caretaker committee's competitions and fixtures secretary Ali Amour who said they would do everything possible to ensure the smooth running of the league.