KCB head coach Zedekiah Otieno has urged his charges to step on the gas pedal in order to bolster their chances of laying claim to a maiden Kenyan Premier League this season. Otieno made the remarks after the bankers squeezed a hard-fought 1-0 win over a resilient Mathare United side at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Tuesday. Derrick Otanga stabbed the back of the net with a well-struck thunderbolt in the 76th minute to take his goal tally to five this season, effectively remaining in contention for the Golden Boot. “It was a tough match but the important thing is that we managed all the three points. “We need to work on our finishing by exercising more composure in front of goal. That's the only way we can make use of our opportunities and bag maximum points,” said Otieno. “All in all I believe we generally made a good impression in this match only that we weren't fortunate enough today. “We look forward to another win in our next match and we hope to adjust accordingly,” he said. “It's still too early to start talking about the championship though just because we are second on the log,” said Otieno. On the other hand, Mathare United gaffer Ezekiel Akwana is convinced the side has improved considerably well, judging by Tuesday's encounter. Akwana was, however, livid saying the referee denied them what seemed like a clear penalty after striker Daniel Okoth was sent tumbling in the area,” said Akwana. “I personally thought the incident occurred in the box and we should have been awarded a penalty. There is a need for balanced officiating in the top-flight league. His sentiments were echoed by his opposite number Otieno who also took issue with officiating. The Slum Boys almost broke the deadlock in the 27th minute when Kennedy Ochieng curved a set-piece just inches wide. Then in the 38th minute, Eugene Wethuli beat the offside trap before unleashing a rasping shot that swirled over the crossbar. The bankers looked menacing on the flanks with Dennis Odhiambo and David Owino making incessant inroads into Mathare's territory from the left. Mathare's Tony Odhiambo collected a yellow card in the 21st minute for a late challenge on Simon Abuko. The win takes KCB to the summit of the log with 25 points given they enjoy a healthier goal difference compared to Kakamega Homeboyz with whom they are level on points. Elsewhere, Kakamega Homeboyz's unbeaten run came to an abrupt halt after they crashed 1-0 to Talanta at Bukhungu Stadium. Kenya Police thumped Vihiga Bullets 4-0 at Ruaraka grounds while Kariobangi Sharks stunned Ulinzi Stars 1-0 at ASK Grounds in Nakuru. Bandari edged Sofapaka 1-0 at Wundanyi Stadium.