Nairobi City Stars mercurial midfielder Sven Yidah believes they have a glorious opportunity to clinch their maiden Kenyan Premier League title following a splendid run this season that leaves them third on the log. City Stars pulled off an emphatic 2-0 win over record champions Gor Mahia in their last league encounter at Nyayo Stadium on Thursday to make clear their intentions of running away with the title. Yidah is now convinced their season to bask in unprecedented glory is finally here, adding the club currently boasts of sufficient depth to realize the dream that eluded them last season. “After missing out on the title in the preceding season, we gathered some vital lessons that will prove crucial this time around. We have a strong squad capable of flexing muscles for a podium finish,” said Yidah. The midfielder, who is best remembered for his scintillating celebration after a spot-kick against Everton in the SportPesa tournament at Kasarani in 2019, joined City Stars at the beginning of last year after four seasons with Kariobangi Sharks. “It took me quite some time to adjust at City Stars but I have managed to gel well with the rest of the squad and I'm glad the rest of the team is syncing well in matches and that's why we have managed to register the positive results thus far,” said Yidah. “I hope to fire my team to the title by scoring as many goals as possible and providing assists at every given opportunity,” said Yidah. “The good thing is that we have a seasoned coach who has a wealth of experience in the local top tier both as a player and as a coach. He used to play against some of the best coaches in the league during their heydays so he is quite familiar with their approach in football, something that puts him in a better position to counter their thoughts effectively,” said Yidah. “I hope to feature in a foreign league in the near future, preferably in the North African competition because I feel they have the best football so far. However, I wouldn't mind turning out for a Spanish club in the LaLiga,” said Yidah.