Charles Njonjo said in a 2015 media interview that conservationist Richard Leakey was the only person, a part from himself and his immediate family, that he trusted. As it turns out, fate had intertwined their lives. It was Leakey’s grand father Cannon Harry Leakey who opened up the world of Charles Njonjo’s father, Josiah Njonjo, ensuring he went to school in the deeply conservative Kikuyu country that had confined him to goat herding. Widely perceived as a white man in a black skin, Njonjo forged close friendship with Leakey into their old age. They died the same day, on January 2 at 101 and 77 respectively. “...I trust myself. It’s difficult to say, apart from my own family, the only man I trust is Richard Leakey...” Njonjo said in a press interview. The old men were interred in strictly private ceremonies and that the public was only informed later. Njonjo's body was swiftly cremated on Sunday at a Kariokor Hindu crematorium, while Leakey was buried on Monday in a private arrangement. Josiah Njonjo, a retired senior chief said in an interview with Anne Thurston, a PhD candidate at George Washington University in the early 80s, that he would hide under the kitchen inside the reverend’s house in Kanyariri area when his father would chase him with a whip. Thurston, helped by Esmond Martin, a research assistant from the University of Nairobi, conducted the interview as part of her study on the impact of the colonial period on the Kikuyu way of life. The reverend was secretly enrolling him at Kabate Mission School. “...When I was grazing my father's goats and cattle near the football ground at Kabete, I saw the others, those who came before me, playing with their teachers…. My father was very much against it because I was the first son and he wanted me to look after his cattle." "He came to the school several times to try to take me home. Once he even chased me around Leakey's house but I managed to hide under the kitchen table. However, after a month or two he said I could go,” Josiah Njonjo said in the interview. Later in life, he would say it was the senior Leakey who would advise him and other Kikuyu elders at the time to form the first political association in the area, known as the Kikuyu Association to agitate for the land that the white settlers had hived off from them. “With advice from Canon Leakey and other missionaries, we formed the first political association in the Kikuyu area, the Kikuyu Association. We also asked Canon Leakey to go with us to Paramount Chief Kinyanjui, to discuss the possibility of some of the younger educated men being allowed to sit on the African Tribunal Court in our area.” Richard Leakey was a renown paleoathropologist and animal conservationist who founded the Kenya Wildlife Service complete with a heavily armed wing to combat poaching in the early 90s, which was a national menace. He was later appointed by President Daniel Moi as the head of public service and secretary to the Cabinet reportedly to placate the international donors who had pressured his government over widespread corruption. He served for two years during which he reportedly sacked 25,000 civil servants in the anti-corruption purge and helped secure some £250 million of IMF and World Bank funds to support the economy. He said in a previous interview that shortly after the monies reached Kenya, he was sidelined, his reform initiatives blocked in the courts and finally got sacked in 2001. He had suffered various bouts of skin cancer, liver diseases and other old age ailments. President Uhuru Kenyatta condoled with the Leakey family, remembering him as a man who diligently served the country and played a critical role in the civil society. Though his grandfather was a preaching missionary who saw conversion of many Africans into the Christian faith, Leakey was a staunch atheist rejecting religion as offering simple solutions to complex problems. For example, when he was involved in a aircraft accident in Limuru in 1993 that saw his legs fractured and later amputated, he stopped Moi from praying for him at the hospital, telling him to focus on strengthening KWS to stop poaching. Moi had visited him at his hospital bed.  -Edited by SKanyara