ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is walking a political tightrope after another ally said he would be better off joining ODM leader Raila Odinga. Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka said Mudavadi’s political future would be brighter if he was part of Raila’s Azimio la Umoja Movement. He said Mudavadi stands a chance of inheriting Raila's support base in the future as he is the most appropriate politician from Nyanza and Western to take up that mantle. “When I look at the prevailing political conditions and environment, I would advise my party leader to support Raila Odinga,” Aseka told the Star on the phone. “If he joins Deputy President William Ruto, he will have another 10 years of oblivion. He might not add anything significant to his side. He may get government positions but nothing political,” he added. The move comes days after two MPs and a host of ANC MCAs dumped Mudavadi's team for Raila. They were Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali. Aseka said they had planned a massive presidential campaign but took a lot of time in the One Kenya Alliance, which may eventually not take off. “We campaigned for Raila in 2017 and we have not gotten him out of the hearts of our people. A perception has been created that it will be a two-horse race,” he said. “It's true there are negotiations between ANC and UDA but they are being done secretly.” However, Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi, another Mudavadi ally, said the ANC leader will go all the way to the ballot. “There is nothing like ongoing talks between Mudavadi and William Ruto,” he said. He said Raila and Ruto have realised they may not get the 50 plus one to win the election and are therefore trying hard to lure Mudavdi to their respective sides. “Opinion polls have shown there is a huge percentage that has not made up its mind. This is the group we are targeting,” he said. Savula said Mudavadi stands a better chance of taking the country’s leadership from Raila. Savula, who is the ANC deputy leader, has since ditched Oka, where Mudavadi is a principal alongside Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Gideon Moi (Kanu). ANC announced that it will hold its National Delegates Congress on January 23 at the Bomas of Kenya. A notice by secretary general Simon Kamau said the meeting will nominate the party leader as the presidential candidate for the August 9 election. He said the meeting will ratify amendments to the ANC party constitution. On Tuesday, Savula said he would not attend the NDC should the party invite the Deputy President. “I will not be interested in any party position if UDA will be invited to the meeting,” he said. The other defectors were ANC secretary general Godfrey Osotsi, Oku Kaunya of Teso North and Emmanuel Wangwe of Navakholo. Oku was elected on an ANC ticket while Wangwe was, until his defection, a Jubilee MP. Savula has, however, insisted that he is still in ANC but supporting Azimio la Umoja. Edited by Kiilu Damaris