One Kenya Alliance leaders have dismissed claims of a two-horse race in the August presidential election saying the coalition will be a force to reckon with. Speaking at Kerugoya Stadium on Sunday, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka told their opponents to write them off at their own risk. He was with Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Narc Kenya's Martha Karua and Cyrus Jirongo. Karua was launching her bid for Kirinyaga governor. The August 9 presidential contest is being billed as a two-horse race between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga but Kalonzo said Oka will pull a surprise. “No one should say there are only two horses in the competition. We have a lot of people and some are still in the process of joining Oka. We promise that in the next six weeks, we shall pull a surprise that will leave you talking about the only horse,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader said Kenyans have a rich menu of candidates and should not only look at the so-called big fish. He said Oka leaders will campaign in all counties and he was confident Kenyans will buy their ideas. Oka previously brought together ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula both of whom have since joined forces with Ruto's UDA in the Kenya Kwanza alliance. Kalonzo said Oka has since accepted and moved on from the Mudavadi betrayal and they were courting new partners. “Even though they left us, we shall still push on with our mission to market our agendas as we continue expanding our horizons with other like-minded parties,” he said. The former vice president took a swipe on Deputy President William Ruto saying his actions in course of the jubilee administration portrays, he has been belittling and disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta. “When they assumed office they worked together and wore similar clothes but somewhere along the way they fell out because the deputy showed less regard and respect for his boss,” Kalonzo said. He urged Kenyans to assess their leaders vote in those who are accountable and do away with those who have been implicated in the nation's past dark histories. He cited those accused of inciting and masterminding the razing to ashes the Kiambaa reformed church during the 2007 post-election season where several Kenyans lost their lives “I believe we need true repentance. We are longing for the day the characters implicated in the unfortunate incident will go and repent,” Kalonzo said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris