The Samawadhal community in Ijara constituency on Tuesday endorsed Garissa Senator Abdul Haji to defend his seat in the August polls. The seat was previously held by his father, Yussuf Haji, who died in February last year. The senator who is also DPP Noordin Haji's younger brother was unanimously endorsed by all the clans residing in Garissa. The ceremony at the Masalani Baraza Park was attended by several leaders and elders from the nine sub-clans that form the Samawadhal community. Also present were Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane, predecessor Hussein Abdullahi and the DPP. Led by mzee Omar Bile, the elders said they had confidence in the young Haji to continue steering the wheel where his father left. Bile, however, said the endorsement is only the beginning as they will also go to their colleagues from other communities, including the Awdhaq and the Aulihan, to seek their endorsement. Since devolution, the three communities have been teaming up to balance clan equations and win available seats in the county. The Senate and deputy governor seats have been going to the Samawadhal, who are predominantly in the south of Garissa and the swing vote. “From our community, we have fronted Senator Haji to defend his seat. This was a unanimous endorsement that was not met with any resistance. "Going forward, we look forward to teaming up with other clans residing in our county with a view of forming the next county government,” Bile said. Accepting the endorsement, Haji said he was humbled by the gesture from the elders and the community for their trust in him. He promised to continue discharging his constitutional duties to his best. “I accept this endorsement with a full and grateful heart with only one obligation: That is providing good leadership to our community and to the people of Garissa,” Haji said. Former Garissa Governor Nathif Jama, who hails from the Aulihan, and incumbent Ali Korane [the Awdhaq] who supported Haji’s election are also in the race. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)