Men are not so keen and mindful of their fashion sense, but this year, some habits and trends need to be done away with. Not only are women judged by their dress code; men, too, have fallen into this category. This calls for more keenness and exploration, especially for men. T-SHIRT UNDER SHIRT In case you are wearing a T-shirt under your shirt to shield yourself from the cold, at least make it plain. White T-shirts would go well with any colour of shirt, and they should be plain with no writings. Also, a long-sleeved shirt goes well with a short-sleeved T-shirt and not another long-sleeved T-shirt. OFFICIAL SHOES WITH JEANS A pair of jeans on shirt and bomber or leather jacket is already smart casual. Why would you pair this with official shoes again? This look needs to be spiced up with sneakers, rubbers or any other casual type of shoe. A casual blazer would also look better compared to the official one. OVERSIZE TROUSERS, SHIRT Men look elegant in fitting outfits and not baggy ones. It’s a norm that only women should wear fitting pants and tops, but that’s no longer the case. A body-hugging shirt and nice-fitting khaki pants would look good. If you end up buying oversize outfits, take them to the tailor for adjustments. TIE LONGER THAN BELT When setting up your tie, always ensure the length is matching your waistline. A tie hanging below your waist is not acceptable in this era. The tip of your tie should just cover the belt buckle. In case you decide to wear suspenders, avoid adding a belt. SOCKS AND SANDALS This mode of dressing should be left in 2021. If you choose to wear sandals, then you should be barefooted. Socks should always be worn with closed shoes and not open. FASTENING TOP BUTTON On a normal day, fasten all other buttons but leave the one on your neck. But on weekends or in a nightclub, then you can leave around two or three buttons. One can fasten all buttons on special occasions. TUCKING T-SHIRT INTO SWEATPANTS First, men should only wear sweatpants in the house, especially over-fitting ones. They make you walk around with visible structures. Second, tucking in your T-shirt will make it look crumpled. Appropriately determine the length of your T-shirt to hang slightly above your waist.