Lugari MP Ayub Savula has officially joined Democratic Action Party - Kenya(DAP-K). Savula was received in his new party on Saturday by Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and DAP-K party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi  in Nairobi. The Lugari Mp was named the DAP-K deputy party leader, a position he also held in his former party. “I am announcing my defection from ANC to DAP-K where I will serve in the same capacity as deputy party leader. I have the blessings of my family and my constituents,” he said. Savula further announced he would be contesting for the Kakamega governor seat on DAP-K ticket. He said his defection was informed by activities in ANC, “which were leaning towards Deputy President William Ruto.” “I am a neighbouir to Ruto in Karen Nairobi. The Deputy President is also my neighbor in his rural home in Sugoi. I know what is going on in his homes,” he said. Savula said his pleas to ANC party leader Musalia Mudavdi to join Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja have fallen on deaf ears. “There is no doubt that Raila is forming the next government and that is why I was telling Musalia he should not remain in the cold,” he added. Wamalwa thanked Savula for joining DAP-K saying his move is well informed. “Savula is not unpredictable and indecisive like his former party leader. We have tried talking to our big brother but he always lags behind and then makes monumental mistakes,” he added. Wamunyinyi said Savula will bring his wealth of experience in politics to DAP-K as the deputy party leader. “We welcome him to Chui House (party headquarters) and we hope he comes with his wealth of experience. He quit Oka because the formation is moving towards Tanga Tanga,” he added. Savula abandoned Musalia Mudavadi on December 31 and backed Raila Odinga for President. The MP said the 2022 presidential contest is a two-horse race between Raila and Deputy President William Ruto. The influential MP who has been a close ally of Musalia, announced that he has also ceased any engagements with the One Kenya Alliance. The MP, however, clarified that he still remains in the Amani National Congress that sponsored him to Parliament.