Celtic manager Ange Postecoglou says debutant midfielder Reo Hatate “has his eyes on reaching the very top” after starring in his side’s Scottish Premiership win over Hibernian. Fellow debutant and Japanese countryman Daizen Maeda opened the scoring after four minutes before Josip Juranovic’s penalty doubled the hosts’ lead. Reo was key in Celtic’s controlled display and Postecoglou believes there is more to come from his new signing. “He’ll make his own mark,” he said. Speaking to BBC Scotland, the Celtic boss added: “He’s a very talented young player and he’s a very determined young man. He’s got his eyes on reaching the very top of football and we’re glad to have him at our club at the moment.” The win stretches Celtic’s unbeaten league run to 15 games and narrows the gap on leaders Rangers, who travel to Aberdeen on Tuesday, to three points. As for Hibs, who remain fifth, boss Shaun Maloney’s first managerial defeat comes at his former club after back-to-back victories before the winter break. Football has a habit of moving quickly, and the fact Celtic’s League Cup final triumph over Hibs was only four weeks ago is evidence of that. Given both sides had played two games each following the final before a three-week winter shutdown, onlookers would be forgiven for assuming the showpiece event was further in the distance. Hibs have a new boss in their dugout, while four debutants across both teams were treated to their first taste of Scottish football. And it was Celtic’s debutant striker Daizen who notched early after a lightning start to the game. In truth, the Japanese striker should not have had the chance to sweep in. Not just because of Hibs’ slack play, which allowed Tom Rogic to slide the ball across to the forward who had acres of space in the box to finish low, but also due to Kevin Nisbet’s incredible miss moments earlier. Chris Cadden’s low cross found the Hibs striker free at the back post with the goal to aim at, but the Scotland cap went with his wrong foot and clipped the far post. Daizen’s opener spooked Hibs and fuelled Celtic’s electric tempo as Postecoglou’s men hunted in packs for a second. A spell of relentless pressure resulted in the home side being awarded a penalty when Greg Taylor’s stunning ball over the top was plucked out the sky by Liel Abada, with the winger’s first touch coming off the outstretched arm of Josh Doig. Referee Willie Collum pointed to the spot, allowing Juranovic to slot into the bottom-right corner. A rare venture forward from Hibs led to dangerous shots from Nisbet and Josh Campbell blocked, but Maloney’s men were creating their own problems in defence. The impressive Reo had a half-volley parried away by Matt Macey before James Forrest’s deflected effort whistled past the far post. Celtic searched for a third after the break as Reo slashed wide from close range and Carl Starfelt’s flick-on resulted in Abada sliding an effort off the back post. But the home side’s performance became more about control with the second half progressing and Celtic saw out the game comfortably.