Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru now says she has become more popular since she joined UDA late last year. Waiguru says the overwhelming support the party enjoys in the county and the entire Mt Kenya region has contributed to her increased popularity, thus optimistic of her re-election. Speaking to a local TV station on Tuesday, the governor said she had done her research and found out that UDA was popular in Kirinyaga, with over 80 per cent support. She said Deputy President William Ruto is the most suitable presidential candidate in the county, enjoying the support of residents by  82 per cent. Waiguru dismissed opinion polls by other research firms, saying they were unreliable and crafted to suit a certain political narrative. “That goes for Mt Kenya region too. Any person saying UDA is not the people’s choice is simply living in denial,” she said. The county boss said those in the region who aspire to win in the election should associate themselves with UDA because it is the most dominant party compared to other indigenous political parties founded by regional leaders. She said in the past two elections, dominant political parties effortlessly clinched many elective seats in regions where they commanded support. Waiguru cited that some political parties chaired by some of the regional leaders are still lagging for having not produced elected leaders for a long time regardless of existing for ages. She ruled out the prospects for independent candidates to easily capture elective seats saying Kenyans are yet to internalise the culture of electing independent candidates. “As a politician,  for you to increase your chances of winning, you have to be in a dominant party preferred by a majority of the people,” Waiguru said. The county boss said she does not regret joining UDA and her decision is credited to the Kirinyaga people. “The people of Kirinyaga acknowledge that I have positively transformed their lives. However, my people said they had already disassociated themselves from the political vehicle I was in before joining UDA,” she said. The county boss said President Uhuru Kenyatta understood her situation which she explained to him out of respect and not because she was forced to. “My relation with him is still cordial and respectful,” she said. Waiguru also hinted at her availability to be Ruto’s running mate should UDA consider her for the position. The county boss said Ruto deeply connects with the residents, is easily accessible and has stood with them whenever called upon. Waiguru defended Ruto saying he has not been on a campaign spree over the past four years as his critics say, but instead, has been persistent and consistent in meeting and listening to people. Speaking on Tuesday in a different vernacular radio show, county Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici said she was determined to clinch the governor's seat as an independent candidate. She said political parties are oppressive outfits that will not be impactful as the electorates are wise enough to elect reputable leaders. Ngirici said she had done her research and found out that parties will not help in determining winners in the August election. “If you neither stood with the people nor showed willingness in protecting their interests while you were in office, what makes you think you shall win their hearts again,” she said. Ngirici said nominations are an expensive, tedious and draining exercise that can best be compared to elections and as such she preferred to meet all her competitors at the ballot. She defended the regional parties saying much as they had experienced stunt growth, they play a great role in advocating for the interest of the regions and as such should not be looked down on. Ngirici defended President Uhuru Kenyatta’s role in shaping elections politics saying he had a democratic right in giving his input. Edited by Kiilu Damaris