@robertomollo3 The department of Fisheries has urged Homa Bay residents to embrace fish farming for economic benefits. Officers from the ministry argued that the country has an annual deficit of about 350 million tonnes of fish. To address the shortage, Kenyans need to embark on fish farming. Western region officer in charge of Fisheries Karen Mugambi said their attention has been drawn to fish farming due to the dwindling fish in Lake Victoria and other water bodies. Mugambi spoke on Wednesday during a donation of two pond liners worth Sh240,000 to Kanyagol women group at Lala village in Homa Bay. She said there is need for Kenyans to embrace and engage in fish farming not only to address the shortage but also for economic growth and nutritional value. “Let Kenyans especially people from western, embrace fish farming. The government has allocated adequate resources to support the activities,” Mugambi said. She said farming provides the best alternative source of getting fish despite the shortage being experienced in Kenyan lakes. Mugambi was accompanied by Homa Bay Agriculture executive Aguko Juma and nominated MCA Evelyn Achieng. The officers also trained the women and various groups on fish farming and other agricultural practices. “People who have embraced fish farming have had their economic status transformed. We’ll take you through required training for your benefit,” Juma told the residents. The executive asked farmers who get support from the government to prudently use the materials to raise production. “Let our people take advantage of the opportunity and engage in fish farming because there is shortage of fish in Lake Victoria. There’s no other way of getting fish apart from the farms,” she said. Achieng’ urged the fisheries officials to continuously train residents on various farming practices to increase agricultural production. Farming practices such as cotton, poultry, green houses were also part of the training sessions. The MCA urged residents to work in groups for easy financial support. “Groups can grow and develop to Saccos. Operating in groups is not only for economic empowerment but is also a way of promoting team work and sharing of ideas,” Achieng said. Residents Eunia Achieng Saramba and Stephen Otieno said the training enhanced their knowledge and skills in fish farming. They said the pond liners provided will boost their fish farming activities. “We’re hoping to advance trade since there will be readily available markets,” Saramba said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)