Former banker Otieno Okanja has joined the Siaya governor race seeking to succeed Cornel Rasanga. In 2013, Okanja's declaration as winner of ODM nomination ticket for Siaya governor lasted only 12 hours. The party then rescinded the decision and announced Rasanga as its candidate. That nomination race was hotly contested between then Bondo MP Oburu Oginga and William Oduol. Oduol claimed to have been rigged out in favour of Oburu. The party then decided neither Oburu nor Oduol would be its candidate and gave the ticket to Okanja who had finished third in the race. Rasanga had finished fourth. That might be close to a decade ago and many have since moved on but Okanja is back, seeking to become Siaya's second governor. Okanja said he is confident he will clinch the ODM ticket in the much anticipated party primaries expected in April. The former banker says he does not hold any grudge against the ODM party or Rasanga for what transpired in 2013. He says his only focus is to serve the residents of Siaya. “The people of Siaya are still struggling with issues of agriculture, trade, water and basic education after 10 years of devolution,” he said. Okanja said his candidature is not aimed at fighting anybody. However, he says, that does not mean he will not tell the people that the county has received about Sh60 billion since the advent of devolution. The aspirant said if given the chance, he will transform agriculture through training of farmers and mechanisation of agricultural production because Siaya remains a net importer of food crops. He also faulted the current regime for imposing high taxation on small-scale traders. He added that his government will lower the taxes and establish value addition factories in the county. Okanja is the fifth entrant into the gubernatorial race following similar announcements by Siaya Senator James Orengo, former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo, former police spokesperson Charles Owino and lawyer George Mugoye. The four, with the exception of Gumbo, will face off in ODM party primaries. Orengo is believed to be the overwhelming favourite in many political quarters. Gumbo who is Orengo’s toughest challenger has chosen to vie as an independent candidate citing ineptitude among political parties in the country. “I will be running as Gumbo. Most of these political parties are poorly run as private entities yet they get funding from taxpayers” Gumbo said in a recent interview. Orengo is likely to be the greatest beneficiary of Okanja’s entrance into the race as he (Okanja) is likely to counter the growing influence of Gumbo in Rarieda and Bondo subcounties. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)