The High Court has ordered Kenya Power to pay Sh2 million instead of Sh140,000 to a minor who suffered permanent disability after being electrocuted. Justice Kiarie wa Kiarie on December 22 ordered the power company to pay for general pain and suffering, loss of income and future medical expenses. The accident happened in 2018 in Mbita. The amount is an enhancement from an award of Sh140,000 granted to the minor by a Mbita senior resident magistrate. “After considering the injuries sustained by the minor and the prognosis given by the doctor, I will set aside the award by the learned trial magistrate and substitute it with an award of Sh2 million general damages,” judge Kiarie ruled. The court was told the minor lost a lot of blood, needed transfusions, suffered great pain and lost 20 per cent of his skin. His behaviour changed because of the electric shock and he has become very irritable and sometimes talks to himself. The magistrate said the minor was still undergoing counselling due to the scars on his body. He is receiving physiotherapy due to the impaired movement of the right elbow joint. He has suffered eight per cent partial incapacity. The minor sued Kenya Power after touching live electricity wires, which had become dislodged from a pole. A Mbita magistrate had awarded the minor  Sh140,000 but he moved to the High Court seeking enhancement of the award. In the appeal, the minor argued the trial magistrate erred by awarding him damages that were inordinately low in the circumstances and not commensurate with the loss suffered. The minor also said the magistrate erred in failing to take into account his submissions, which had articulated relevant issues of law, thereby arriving at an erroneous decision. “The trial magistrate misapprehended the evidence on record, in particular the permanent disability as assessed, and failed to properly and exhaustively evaluate the evidence or based on evidence,” the minor argued. The court heard that the magistrate erred by adopting a wrong approach in computation of the general damages and by departing from the trends described by the authorities and cited by the minor, thus occasioning a miscarriage of justice. The minor said the magistrate erred in law and fact by disregarding  future medical expenses. (Edited by V. Graham)