A couple in West Gem, Siaya county, has been sleeping in the cold after their homestead was torched by arsonists. Christopher Owino, 60, and Teresa Auma, 58, of Kadibuor village lost their lifetime investment on Sunday when some boda boda riders raided their homestead and razed down all the three houses in the compound. Not even poultry and harvested maize were spared. Outside their burnt houses are old pieces of cloth that has been the couple's bed for the last two nights. "Hell broke loose on Sunday at around 4pm when police officers, the area chief and assistants visited my homestead. They wanted to arrest one of my sons, which they did. But commotion started when boda boda riders in the area came baying for my son's blood," Owino said. The son, Eliud Odhiambo, had been accused of stealing some items from the nearby Apuoyo Secondary School before selling them to a hardware in the area at night. According to Owino, the police managed to whisk his son away from the angry mob baying for his blood. Odhiambo is in police custody. But the family is yet to report the arson incident. "It was after the police left in haste that the group torched my home. They started with my two sons' houses and then mine," Owino said. Odhiambo's mother, Auma, told the Star that the family has lost everything that it had accumulated over the years. She pleaded with the government and well-wishers to come to their aid and help them rebuild. "We have lost everything that we have accumulated over the years. Twenty-four sacks of maize, mattresses, furniture, electronics and everything else. Even the few poultry that I had were looted. Only one hen is left," Auma said. She said before the riders arrived, police had searched her house. "The police informed me that my son is a thief and that there are stolen items that are suspected to be in my homestead. I gave them access and they later collected a few items and loaded them onto their vehicle," she said. The couple said the gang had no reason to torch their house. "If my sons were thieves then they should have burnt their houses only.  I don't understand why my house was also razed down," Owino said. Owino, a former ODM party chairman at the grassroots, said the burning of his homestead has nothing to do with politics. "This is an abuse by the community. For now, we have nothing to hold on to and we request well-wishers to come to our rescue." "No structure has been left standing in this compound. Here, on these old clothes and in the cold, is where we have spent the last two nights. Sincerely, you cannot sleep here at night with no roof over your head," Auma said. James Oketch, the boda boda chairman at Apuoyo market centre, declined to comment on the issue. However, a member of the Apuoyo boda boda group claimed the parents have been harbouring thieves (their two sons) saying it is the reason their house was not spared. "Their two sons have been stealing valuables from people and this time one of them was found with an exhibit. First, the villagers wanted to kill the son but the police rescued him. It is then that the mob decided to destroy and loot everything," one boda boda operator said. Gem subcounty police commander Chacha Mwita urged the family to report the arson incident to the police for investigations to commence.   -Edited by SKanyara