Boris Johnson will face questions about No 10 parties from MPs later, as the results of an internal inquiry into possible lockdown breaches are due. Angry exchanges are likely at Prime Minister's Questions, with senior official Sue Gray's report expected to be delivered later on Wednesday. The Met Police has also announced its own investigation, heaping more pressure on the prime minister. And Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has urged a "change of culture" in No 10. She told BBC Breakfast there were "clearly concerning reports" over parties and it was important to "fix the issues", adding: "But that shouldn't diminish the fantastic work that has been done under this government and this prime minister." Downing Street has yet to receive the report, Ms Truss said. The prime minister has apologised for attending a "bring-your-own-booze" event on in the No 10 garden 20 May 2020, during the first lockdown, saying he thought it was a "work event". Reports of a birthday party held for Mr Johnson in the Cabinet Room in June 2020 have also come to light this week. Met Police Commissioner Cressida Dick said on Tuesday that the force was looking into potential breaches of Covid laws at a number of events in government buildings since 2020. Such investigations were carried out in cases of the "most serious and flagrant breach" of regulations, or when it was considered those involved "ought to have known that what they were doing was an offence", she added. This adds to concerns for Mr Johnson over the gatherings, with Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the SNP continuing their calls for him to resign. Some Conservative MPs have also demanded he go, but many others say they are waiting for the Gray report before deciding whether to submit letters of no confidence in Mr Johnson, potentially triggering a leadership contest. At least 54 must write to Sir Graham Brady, chairman of the backbench 1922 Committee, to set up a vote on the prime minister's future. Mr Johnson has pledged to make a statement in the Commons after the report is made public, but there has been no official confirmation of when it will be published. Labour has urged the government to give MPs enough time to digest the report before any statement, with copies issued well in advance. Labour MP Chris Bryant said told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Sue Gray should publish according to her own timetable, the whole of her report should be published in full - both the findings and the workings. "The worry is that there's so little trust in the British government at the moment from most of the public, that if there are too many redactions people will say this is a cover-up." But House of Commons Leader Jacob Rees-Mogg told BBC Newsnight: "The government will behave entirely properly in terms of any statement, and the usual courtesies are extended to the opposition." He said the cabinet was in "unanimous support" of the prime minister, because "anyone who did not support the prime minister would be obligated to resign". Mr Johnson has said he welcomes the Met investigation, as it would "give the public the clarity it needs" over the allegations. His spokesman said the PM did not believe he had broken the law.