India will prioritise economic cooperation with Kenya in the post-Covid-19 pandemic road to recovery. India High Commissioner Virander Paul, on Wednesday said Indian business communities are looking at emerging opportunities in the larger framework of post-Covid recovery. "The pandemic has caused a global slowdown of an unprecedented scale, disrupting the traditional supply chains and adversely affecting international trade. Our economic engagement with Kenya was not without a negative impact. "Multi-faceted cooperation with a thrust on the economic side will remain our focus on the road to recovery," he said during the 73rd India Day celebrations in Nairobi. The High Commissioner said the supply chains will have to be redesigned and new opportunities that emerge post the pandemic seized. The envoy said resumption of travel and tourism will play a part in re-energising bilateral ties, and that there are some new initiatives under consideration in energy and healthcare. "Medical tourism to India and training of Kenyan professionals and students in Indian institutions have also begun to pick up," he said. The envoy noted that India has traditionally been one of the largest trade and investment partners of Kenya. "India’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat aims for a self-reliant and resilient India integrated with global economy. This would provide further impetus to our bilateral trade and investment ties, as the Indian economy recovers from the impact of the pandemic," he said. According to the Kenya Investment Authority KenInvest, India is the second largest investor in Kenya. Over 60 major Indian companies have invested in among other sectors manufacturing, real estate, pharmaceuticals, telecom, IT and Information Technology Enabled Services, banking and agro-based industries. Before Covid-19 outbreak — in 2018-19 — bilateral trade was $2.2  billion, which has dropped to $2 billion last year. Main Indian exports to Kenya include petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, steel products, machinery, yarn, vehicles and power transmission equipment. On the other hand, the main Kenyan exports to India include soda ash, vegetables, tea, leather and metal scrap. The High Commissioner said India is actively involved in Kenya's Big Four agenda noting that they have assisted in upgrading of the Rivatex factory in Eldoret, creating two thousand direct and thousands of indirect jobs. "We would look forward to more such mutually agreed opportunities," he said.