There has been a lot of speculations about how the pandemic changed our sex lives. At first, people thought they were facing just a couple of weeks at home but it became clear days after that quarantine would last a long time. This, for the first time ever, saw people spending most of their time at home with their spouses and children. It is not yet clear how Covid-19 and its control measures have changed some dynamics and impacted sexual satisfaction in Kenya. Previous studies have linked it to being satisfied with life generally and if life circumstances change, sexual satisfaction also changes. According to an AMREF study led by Prof Joachim Osur, a reproductive health expert and the dean of the AMREF International University in Nairobi, 73.4 per cent of married couples were satisfied with their sex before the pandemic while only 58.4 per cent were satisfied with their marital sex during the pandemic. These results were not too surprising, because couples might have had less opportunity, the prediction that everyone would have lots of sex overlooked couples who had children at home. “The overall effect was increased dissatisfaction with sex and, males aged 31–40 years and being in a marriage for less than 20 years exhibited the most dissatisfaction, possibly because this is the time when sexual activity is highest,” the authors say. The sexual process, including foreplay, sexual position and the speed of sex was also a contributor to dissatisfaction. Perhaps the biggest reason people also saw the decline in libido or trouble orgasming is the uncertainty and stress that Coivd-19 caused across the world. “Even though people were coupled up, they were not necessarily in the mood for sex,” he says. Another silver lining for some couples and singles was a push towards sexual exploration. Judie Kamau, an online sex toy entrepreneur told the Star during an interview on Monday, that she made lots of sales during the pandemic than ever before. “Sex toys are great accessories to add to your sex bag of tricks, most people who actually ordered were from Nairobi and a few from the neighbouring regions,” Judie said. With her shop being fully online in social media, Judie said her part-time business that sells vibrators, but plugs, massage oils, lubes and kinky stuff has helped her help couples who desired exploring. “I believe sexual exploration is an adaptive way to maintain a healthy relationship during a stressful time.” Judie said that sex toys help one to learn what really feels good and what works for your partner. "If your partner isn’t interested, let the subject go, toys are supposed to add fun, not stress to a relationship," she said. Online dating also rose from March 2020, where a dating app Tinder, reordered 3 billion swipes in a day; this is its highest number ever. A surge in virtual dating has also increased but as of now, people are taking their time to get to know people first before meeting. Seems not even a pandemic can stop people from looking for love. -Edited by B. Marita