Oka bosses Kalonzo Musyoka and Gideon Moi have organised a series of political rallies after the sudden exit of their colleague, Musalia Mudavadi, in a surprise election game plan. The leaders are set to storm Kalonzo's Ukambani backyard before camping in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Mt Kenya turf. The Star established the team has scheduled rallies in Kitui on Thursday and Machakos on Saturday in whirlwind tours after the setback caused by Mudavadi’s departure. “Yes, we embarking on a series  of rallies starting with Kitui, but we may shelve the first meeting because we are needed in Parliament,” Makueni MP Dan Maanzo said. On Saturday, they will be in Kirinyaga county. Next week, they will shift focus to Mudavadi’s Western base in a series of rallies that will see them visit all the four counties in the former Western province. The team was expected to tour Bomet but the same has been shelved because of ‘political tensions there.’ The rallies come against the backdrop of speculations on Kalonzo'a and Gideon's next move after Mudavadi teamed up with Deputy President William Ruto. While certain insiders indicate the team could be headed to Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja movement, some quarters suggest the Oka leaders are keen to go all the way to the ballot. “For us, Oka is solid and we are soldering on. Kalonzo must be on the ballot because we believe that UDA and Azimio are not options,” Kitui Senator Enock Wambua said. The Star established that Gideon, Kalonzo, Tujibebe Wakenya party leader William Kabogo and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi met in a closed door meeting to discuss the alliance’s future. Interestingly, Kabogo attended Mudavadi’s delegates meeting on Sunday and announced that the ANC-UDA union had "built him". Mudavadi and Ruto announced forming an alliance during the meeting. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula’s Ford Kenya also inked an agreement with UDA to team up ahead of the polls. Kalonzo and Gideon walked out of the event, saying they could not share a podium with the DP. On Monday, a day after joining forces with Ruto, Mudavadi claimed that Oka was state-controlled alliance formed to make Raila president. “There was a belief that Oka was to be stringed along and made to work with one of the political camps – Azimio. But all I can tell you is that I have stood my ground and made my mind,” Mudavadi said. He claimed that there was an attempt by top state functionaries to influence the succession race to go in a particular way. “Clearly, there are some people who would not want to see a free and fair election by trying to influence the poll. Some people are doing everything to shape the succession,” he said. (edited by Amol Awuor)