God forgive me. For a long time, I have had this imaginary list in my head of the top four people I can never trust. It goes like this (in a descending order): cops, matatu operators, women and myself. When it comes to matatu operators, my previous nasty experiences with certain conductors and drivers has taught me that most are the bottom of the barrel as far as morals are concerned. I see most of them as people whose consciences are seared and won’t hesitate to kick you on the backside at the slightest chance they get. However, I have come to realise that matatu operators are humans, too, with families. A month ago, I witnessed a confrontation between a passenger and the driver of a matatu I had boarded, during which I awoke to another side of matatu operators. We were stuck in a traffic jam and the passenger — seemingly in a rush than most of us — wanted to alight at an undesignated spot. The problem was that right in front of us was a traffic police and thus the driver could not allow this passenger to disembark. And so began a back-and-forth between the two, during which the passenger hurled unpalatable words towards the driver. The latter's efforts to make the passenger understand the ramifications of alighting at that point fell on deaf ears. What touched me most was when the driver reminded the passenger that he is also a family man with children who call him ‘daddy’ whenever he goes back home. He spoke in a bitter voice that relayed the hurt he was going through inside as a result of the passenger’s words. I felt for him. For the first time, I felt guilty for dehumanising matatu operators and lumping all of them into one a bunch as demons. It reminded me of a few years ago when passengers in another matatu I had boarded refused to pay the requisite fare. Their argument was that the amount the conductor was demanding was not the one they had been told when boarding the vehicle. In frustration, the conductor — a grown man with a stubby beard — began to wail uncontrollably citing the frustrations he had gone throughout the day. Apparently, he had spent the entire day in a police cell after being arrested for a traffic offence. It is only then that most passengers sympathised and paid the required fare. Fellow passengers, matatu operators matter, too, and undergo the same challenges we do in our daily lives. Mental health issues are not discriminative when it comes to the calibre of the people they affect. Next time you board a matatu, please do so with an open mind and not the preconceived notion that conductors and drivers are demons that should never be trusted. It does not cost much to be polite and kind and to embrace peaceful conflict resolution methods in case of any misunderstanding with a matatu operator.