A Congolese man accused of obtaining Sh105.9million from a Ukrainian national pretending that he will sell him genuine gold was on Friday charged before the court. Andre Ishikunga Kongolo, alias Joseph Kimo, was accused that with others not before the court, he fraudulently obtained the money from Kovalenko Hennadii. He allegedly committed the offence on different dates between January 2018 and November 2018 at M/S Afrisolutions Company limited offices, along Kaptei road Kilelwshwa within Nairobi. Kongolo denied the charges before Milimani senior principal magistrate Bernard Ochoi and pleaded for lenient bond terms. Through his lawyer Stanley Kangai, he said he is not a flight risk and has a fixed abode. Kangai said his client has a right to bail or bond. The prosecution, however, opposed his release on bail saying he is a flight risk and should deposit his passport in court as he has dual citizenship (Kenya and DRC). The magistrate directed that Kongolo be detained at Capitol hill police station until January 17 when the court will rule on his bond. Last Friday, Kongole was detained after the prosecution requested to have him locked in police cells for a week to enable them to finalise investigations. Police said Kongole had allegedly conned people millions of shillings by claiming he could help them buy gold. In an affidavit that was closed in court by investigating officer Julio Mutembe, police sought to be allowed to continue holding Kongolo. They said the investigations involve weighty matters that require ample time as police are expected to record statements from victims who include foreigners. “The suspect has been dealing in unidentified businesses that include sourcing and selling of gold from unknown sources, transporting it to different destinations and is facing criminal charges in Kenya,” the court was told. The court heard Kongolo was arrested after allegedly conning a Ukrainian investor of Sh940 million. Allegedly, the Ukrainian was lured into the country as a trap to syphon his money through a tricky gold business and parted with huge amounts of money to engage in the business. “The gold in question turned out to be a different thing, despite paying for its security in the custody of Brinks Security Services,” officer Mutembei said. The prosecution said the complainant is not in the country and has therefore been unable to identify the suspect. “The respondent has been involved in different crimes and offences against the law. The said acts have landed the respondent in different cases which are so far pending in different courts within the country,” the court papers read. It is alleged that Kongolo, who has several criminal records under his alias, has been meeting unsuspecting buyers in posh hotels within the city. Edited by Kiilu Damaris