Manchester United forward Marcus Rashford said he is disappointed with media reports questioning the players’ commitment to manager Ralf Rangnick following a difficult start to the German’s reign at Old Trafford. A number of United players are reportedly unhappy with Rangnick’s methods, with the interim boss saying that he was aware that several fringe players were keen to leave the club this month. “We’ve all been disappointed with recent performances and we’ve been as disappointed with the news coverage questioning our commitment to not only the manager and the coaching staff but the club,” Rashford said in a statement on Twitter. “I have endless respect for both and I’m looking forward to bettering my game under the staff... I’m not sulking, I’m not unhappy.” The 24-year-old England international came off the bench in the 1-0 league defeat by Wolverhampton Wanderers on Monday, a first loss under Rangnick that left United in seventh place, four points off the Champions League places but with a game in hand. Rashford said that he was not satisfied with some of his recent performances but added that his dedication to the club should never be called into question. Meanwhile, United midfielder Paul Pogba is unlikely to return to full training for another month as he continues his recovery from a groin injury, interim manager Ralf Rangnick said ahead of Monday’s FA Cup third-round clash at home to Aston Villa. The 28-year-old, who was injured on international duty with France in November, spent a few weeks in Dubai for rehabilitation before returning to England last month. “As far as I know, I was told a week ago, it would be a minimum of at least another four or five weeks before he is fit for training again,” Rangnick told the club website. “It’s one thing to be training fit but, on the other hand, he needs to be fit for the match and competition in either the Premier League or the Champions League and this will still take some time.” Pogba, whose contract expires at the end of the season, has reportedly denied claims in British media that he has been offered a new deal at Old Trafford. On Friday, Rangnick said he was aware a few players wanted to leave while others were at the end of their contracts, but urged them to deal with the situation in a “professional way”.