ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi says he is running for the presidential seat in the August 9, elections and nothing else, at least for now. Speaking to KTN News on Monday evening, the ANC leader said his party has given him only one mandate; to bring the presidency home. Mudavadi said even though he has opened a conversation with Deputy President William Ruto's  UDA party, his eyes are firmly fixed on the top seat. "They endorsed me presidency, yes, and I have not revoked my desire in going for it. The mandate that I was given by my ANC party is to run for the Presidency. The mandate is one and specific, to carry the presidential flag. I am taking that seriously," he said. He added that they are yet to sign any coalition deal with the DP adding that they are now engaging in talks. This comes a day after he launched his presidential bid at the Bomas of Kenya on Sunday where DP Ruto was also present. Mudavadi confirmed that he invited the DP and his allies to his NDC. He said he informed a section of OKA leaders of the DP's attendance. The ANC boss maintained that every Kenyan must enjoy his freedom of association without being coerced otherwise. "When Kanu invited the ODM leader Raila to their function, they did not tell me. When Wiper invited Raila to their function, we were knowing of it at the tail end. I could not interfere with their invitation list because it was their function," Mudavadi said. The presence of the DP at the ANC party National Delegates Conference (NDC) sparked a huge debate about him deputising Ruto in the August 9, elections considering that the DP has served his maximum term. The DP on Monday held a UDA party PG meeting where a working partnership with ANC and Ford Kenya parties was approved. The UDA party said they will be meeting soon to draft a working formula with Mudavadi's team and Ford Kenya's  Moses Wetangula allies. Allies of the DP from the Mt Kenya region have, however, dismissed a possibility of Mudavadi being Ruto's running mate saying the position is already reserved for them. Nominated MP Isaac Mwaura on Monday confirmed that DP Ruto has not reneged on his pledge to give the Mt Kenya region the running mate slot.