Tusker fullback Jimmy Mbugua reckons the winning mentality and the camaraderie forged by squad members over time provide the brewers with the right recipe to effectively charge for a title defence this season. Mbugua, 23, has been at the heart of the brewers' watertight backline since the departure of long-serving and seasoned fullback Sammy Meja from the Ruaraka-based club at the conclusion of the preceding season. He now tips the coach Robert Matano-tutored side to cruise to another glory akin to the 2020/2021 windfall when they survived an eleventh-hour scare to edge KCB to the top flight silverware by a paltry three points. “There is a commendable winning mentality in this team that has brought us this far,” said Mbugua. “For example, last season we were about to surrender the title to KCB but we kept our cool up to the end. We achieved this because of our positive mentality and the unity we have as a team. we exist as a family." Mbugua revealed he endured a hard time toiling daily without making it to the matchday squad. However, his patience finally paid off handsomely when he consolidated his slot in the first team following his impressive exploits in his debut top-flight appearance. “I really thank coach Robert Matano for trusting in my ability. I also wish to single out one of my teammates, Michael Wanjala, who kept urging me to borrow life lessons from his personal experience. “Wanjala told me he sat out for an entire three seasons before his eventual breakthrough. “His moment came when he was called in to replace Robert Mboya who picked a shoulder injury in a league encounter against Kariobangi Sharks. He grabbed the opportunity and made good use of it and the rest is history,” said Mbugua. After propelling the academy side to the regional title, Mbugua was afforded a perfect platform to prove his mettle against the big boys when Matano ran short of options after incessant injuries plagued the backline. “ I had to give it my best shot and left everything else in God's hands,” said Mbugua. “I can't really say I have already attained the heights I desire because that would definitely leave me in a comfort zone. I must now keep working. I didn't see it coming this early but God's timing is the best. If he decides it's your time to shine today, it will definitely come to pass." Mbugua says he draws vast inspiration from former skipper Eugene Asike who has influenced his style of play. "The other player I drew a lot of inspiration from is Sofapaka's Titus Achesa who was my neighbour at Gachie in Nairobi. Both have played an important role in mentoring me as a defender. Their great character and commitment in matches encourage me,” said Mbugua. "My most memorable moment was when I featured for Tusker in a Kenyan Premier League match against Kakamega Homeboyz. It was my second game in the league and we kept a clean sheet. It was my special moment, especially in the second half, where I made zero mistakes and created many goalscoring opportunities."