Police are investigating the murder of a 26-year-old man who was found dead in a lodging in Mlolongo, Machakos County. Clinton Wanakacha’s lifeless body was found sprawled on the bed in room six, of Miathathia’s guesthouse by employees at the facility. An employee working at the guest house told detectives that the deceased had booked into the room Tuesday night accompanied by a yet to be identified woman. Machakos police boss Issa Mohamed said they are looking for clues that would help in identifying the suspect behind the murder. The body was moved to the mortuary. Elsewhere, a woman was shot and seriously injured before being robbed of Sh40,000 by a gang as she walked to a market in Utawala area, Nairobi. The woman had alighted from a matatu and was on foot when she was confronted by a gang that shot her in the left thigh and later grabbed the money from her before escaping on foot. She was admitted to a local hospital in stable condition. SPENT CARTRIDGES Police who visited the scene said they recovered two spent cartridges. The hunt on the gang is ongoing, police said. Police said they had mounted operations as learning institutions re-open for the third term. And one suspect was arrested after a stolen motorbike was traced to his yard in Mihang’o area, Dandora, Nairobi and four more were recovered. Police say they are yet to know if the four were stolen. A motorbike had been stolen from the Upper Hill area in the city before it was traced to Mihang’o where the others were recovered. Cases of stealing motorbikes have been on the rise amid police operations to tame the trend. Some of the motorbikes are later changed and repainted before being resold. Police had last year in September revealed they had cracked a syndicate that see stolen motorbikes sold to neighbouring countries. The motorbikes are moved to a garage and where their tracking devices are disabled and later prepared for transportation elsewhere. Nairobi deputy police boss James Mugera said they are investigating to establish if the recovered motorbikes were part of the stolen ones and were headed for a different market. “This may help us understand how this syndicate works. We had similar cases last year,” he said. Edited by D Tarus