Democratic Action Party- Kenya will pitch tent in Western for two weeks to counter the progress made by the ANC party in the recent past. DAP-K deputy party leader Ayub Savula said leaders of the outfit will hold a series of rallies in the region starting next week to 'erase' the support ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has enjoyed in the area. Mudavadi pulled a surprise move on Sunday when he announced that he will work with Deputy President William Ruto in the run up to the general election. Savula, who ditched ANC on Saturday to join DAP-K, said Mudavadi dug his political grave by agreeing to work with Ruto's UDA. “We will be in western to make sure Mudavadi pays for auctioning the Mulembe nation. We will take away all the support he had from the people of Western Kenya,” he said. Before announcing his defection, Savula had warned he would ditch Mudavadi if he invites Ruto to the party's National Delegates Congress held at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi. The Lugari MP quit a day before the NDC saying he had information that the Deputy President had been invited. Speaking to the Star, Savula said the move by Mudavadi was inconsequential and would not add any value to the ANC party leader's political career. “Mudavadi has just written his political obituary. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula has also written his political obituary by following Mudavadi to Ruto's camp,” he added. When he defected, Savula was received in his new party on Saturday by Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and DAP-K leader Wafula Wamunyinyi in Nairobi. He was named the DAP-K deputy party leader, a position he also held in his former party. Savula further announced he would be contesting for the Kakamega governor seat on DAP-K ticket. He said his pleas for Mudavadi to join Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja had fallen on deaf ears. “There is no doubt that Raila is forming the next government and that is why I was telling Mudavadi he should not remain in the cold,” he added. Wamalwa thanked Savula for joining DAP-K saying his move is well informed. “Savula is not unpredictable and indecisive like his former party leader. We have tried talking to our big brother but he always lags behind and then makes monumental mistakes,” he added. Savula first abandoned the One Kenya Alliance, where ANC was an affiliate party and backed Raila for President. The MP said the 2022 presidential contest is a two-horse race between Raila and DP Ruto. The MP has been a close ally of Mudavadi for years. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)