A political drama is in the offing this weekend over a mega rally organized by UDA, Ford Kenya and ANC parties in Kirinyaga county. Deputy President William Ruto is expected to be the main guest of the rally dubbed 'Kenya Kwanza'. A group of leaders who have been on the frontline in organizing the rally cried foul on Thursday after they were denied a permit to host the event at Wang'uru stadium, in Mwea. Led by County Governor Anne Waiguru, the leaders expressed their frustrations and faulted the state for playing politics with public infrastructure. Other leaders expected to attend the rally include Ruto's political buddies  Musalia Mudavadi(ANC), Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula, and various leaders under the 'Kenya Kwanza' movement. The local team read a foul play and went ahead to trail their guns at Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho whom they accused of acting behind the scenes in paralyzing their plans. Waiguru said their attempt to secure the permit failed to bear fruits after they were told that the stadium is still under renovation. She lamented over how their teams were taken in circles by both the ministries of sports and public works before being handed the final blow. "They claim the stadium is incomplete while all along it has been made available for use for some functions. It hosted Mashujaa and most recently one of the county woman representative's functions in which PS Kibicho graced. "How come when it's our turn to ask for permission to use it to host the deputy president and other key leaders, the stadium is declared incomplete? Or is it being built in reverse?" she posed. Waiguru, who spoke in Sagana, said the disappointment will not however dampen their spirits as they will still carry on with the planned meeting at the Thiba stadium grounds. "Let it be known that the people have already settled on  their preferred leaders and that Kirinyaga county is totally locked under the UDA party." Waiguru said the mega rally will be one of a kind that will continue sending shock waves in the country's political landscape. Ndia MP George Kariuki condemned the government for denying them a permit to hold the rally at Wang'uru stadium. "You can deny us access to the stadium but you will not deny us to use Kasarani stadium later in the year for the  swearing-in of DP  Ruto as the fifth president." His sentiments were echoed by Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji who told off leaders who are imposing leaders on the county residents. County assembly majority leader Kamau Murango called on county residents to show up in large numbers to receive and listen in to the visiting leaders. Edited by B. Marita