Chief Justice and President of the Supreme Court of Keny Justice Martha Koome has advised the sporting fraternity in the country to embrace positive measures that promote women’s participation not only in sporting activities but also in management within federations. The Chief Justice made her sentiments during the ongoing Agnes Tirop Conference in Diani, Kwale County where  Supreme Court of Kenya Judge Njoki Ndung’u delivered the speech on her behalf. Koome averred that transforming the unacceptable situation of Gender bias in sport will call for a systematic change. Koome explained that the 'status quo demands a shift from a focus on individual achievements to a focus on systemic change.” She went on: “Systematic change does not come from making it more acceptable for women to be like men and to enter spaces dominated by men and masculinity. Systematic change comes when institutionalised gender beliefs and structures shift." "Thus, this Conference and similar initiatives should focus on altering and dismantling the underlying gendered hierarchies within the sporting fraternity and also embracing positive measures that promote women’s participation not only in sporting activities but also their active participation in the management of sports, for example, management within our federations.” By seeking to promote women’s inclusion in sporting teams and management of sporting federations, Koome lauded the Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Arts for playing a critical social transformation role that gives effect to the 2010 Constitution’s goal of transforming Kenya into a socially-just state and society. “Indeed, a look at Article 27 of our Constitution shows that the Constitution intends to create an inclusive state and society where distinctions like those based on gender are set aside and everyone enabled to flourish and realize their potential in areas of their interest, including in sports,” she added. Koome called on sports stakeholders to reject the state of affairs that reinforces gender exclusion or downplays the importance of sports in women’s lives. “Sport is a key facet of women’s leisure, work, and family lives thus the necessity to make it responsive to the lives of women and their families. This means that we must transform the sporting arena to be accommodative to women and girls." Koome also regretted the fact that women still find their competency questioned, their access and roles limited and their successes dismissed. “They are often not taken seriously and are made to feel unwelcome in certain sporting arenas. And the media often render women in sports invisible or sexualise and trivialise them. This shows the long difficult road ahead for us in challenging stereotypes that exclude women from sport-related activities," added Koome. "But I am heartened by the strides already made by some of our women in breaking down these barriers. I celebrate Liz Mills, who became the first woman to lead a national men’s national team (Morans) to a major continental tournament, AfroBasket 2021, in August. This is a clear example of a woman excelling in what was previously regarded as a “men’s tuff”. But it is not enough.” The CJ lauded and celebrated women trailblazers who have broken barriers in this regard like Faith Kipyegon who, as a sportswoman, has shown that women can balance life and sport. She also saluted Tegla Loroupe whose focus on the rights and welfare of girls, refugees and the marginalised has reaffirmed the value of women in sports management. Koome also lauded Cabinet Secretary for Sports Ambassador Amina Mohamed— who, for the first time in Kenya’s history, has convened a platform to address issues of violence, inequality and exclusion of women. The CJ also congratulated Catherine Ndereba, who, in spite of other competing responsibilities, led the sensitive and important assignment as chair of the Sports Gender and Equity Committee. “These and numerous others have served to promote the idea that women can be authorities in sport and indeed can participate as “equals in leadership, dialogue and participation” in sports conversations,” said the CJ. "These women, and others that I have not mentioned, are pushing against notions that sports are reserved for men by proving equal to the task and exceeding every societal expectation as legitimate leaders, trailblazers and participants in the sports arena.” Koome said the conference will offer a unique opportunity to critique the institutional constructions of gender in sports and the consequences of the lopsided and gender-biased way that we have traditionally run sports. “It is my hope that the recommendations of the Catherine Ndereba report launched by the Cabinet Secretary will be cascaded to all institutions with the responsibility of reinforcing dignity and justice for all. This conversation is of national importance. It is an opportunity for all of us to support our athletes surmount the barriers that confront them on and off the field of play,” the CJ concluded.