Deputy President  William Ruto has pledged to complete all stalled water projects If elected as the fifth president of Kenya in the coming elections. Taking his campaigns to Nairobi, the DP told city residents that water problems will be a thing of the past if he takes the top office. "I know water is a problem in Nairobi but my government, God willing, will complete Northern Collector Tunnel and Nairobi, Ruiru II projects which will benefit the whole city," Ruto added. Nairobi's current water demand is 790,000 cubic metres per day against a capacity of 526,000 cubic meters per day that is supplied from Ndakaini Dam. This leaves a shortage of 264,000 cubic metres per day. The shortage is projected to worsen with the Nairobi Water Master Plan showing the city will require 1.2 billion litres of water daily by 2035. The collector tunnel, a World Bank-funded initiative, was launched on September 18, 2012, at a cost of Sh 20 billion but has not been completed up to date. With the completion of the project, it will increase the water supply to Nairobi by 140 million litres per day. The water will supply an additional 1.2 million city residents. While speaking in Mathare, Ruto also highlighted that at least 20 markets will be constructed in Nairobi for the Mama Mbogas and hawkers. "We shall construct 20 markets in Nairobi for hawkers and mama mbogas to operate from, shielding them from harsh weather conditions and harassment from the kanjo," he noted. The DP also said policies will be made and passed in the county assembly to protect the small scale traders' businesses in Nairobi. On the small scale traders, Ruto pledged to give Sh5 million to assist them in conducting business in order to avoid debts from shylocks. Going further, the Dp stated that his government will construct 100,000 social houses in the slums to make affordable low-cost housing available for everyone. Also, he noted that his priority number one will be to set aside Sh100 billion to create employment for the youth In addition, Ruto called upon Nairobi residents to come out on August 9 and vote for the hustler government. Hitting out at his opponents, he emphasized that Nairobi will not be coerced into voting based on ethnic lines or endorsement. “Kanairo ni mtaa ya mahustler...Na hatupangwingwi and God willing come August we shall form the Hustler Government,” he added. The Dp's Nairobi Tour kicked off in Kamukunji, Mathare,Embakasi Nouth, Emabaksi West and Embakas Central. He was accompanid by a section of Nairobi elected leaders and those seeking to be elected various elective positions in the General elections. Gubernatorial aspirant Bishop Margaret Wanjiru, Karen Nyamu, Millicent Omanga among others.