The Kenya Forest Service has apprehended four suspects in connection with illegal activities in Mau Forest days after it launched a whistleblowing policy. KFS chief conservator Julius Kamau on Tuesday said the policy had started bearing fruits. “The arrest of the suspects was after we got reports from the public,” Kamau said. James Wakibia, an online user, had reported the rise of illegal logging in Marioshoni and Kiptunga areas of the Mau Forest. “During Cop26, Kenya pledged to end deforestation by 2030,” Wakibia said. Kamau said when the service received the reports, it acted swiftly. "On [Thursday last week], four suspects were arrested in block 10 area which lies in the borders of Baraget, Marioshoni and Kiptunga forest stations for found chopping cedar posts,” Kamau said. Kamau added that the service received the information positively, adding that the move will go a long way in protecting the country's resources. KFS manages 6.4 million acres of forests and helps counties manage another 4.2 million acres. In 2018, a damning report on the state of forests and logging revealed how the forests' custodian, KFS, had destroyed swathes of precious trees countrywide. The report said the board and KFS management were unable to stem, and, in some instances, directly participated in rampant corruption and abuse of office. By so doing, the report said, the two institutions oversaw wanton destruction of forests, water towers and the environment. "KFS has institutionalised corruption and the system is replete with deep-rooted corruptive practices, lack of accountability and unethical behaviour," the report said. Following illegal activities in Kenya's forests, the government instituted a moratorium. A 90-day ban on logging was initially imposed on February 24, 2018, and later extended to November 24. It was again extended for a year to facilitate sector reforms. Reforms have been taking place at KFS as part of the recommendations from the task force. The policies reviewed as part of the reforms in October 2021 include the KFS Corruption Prevention Policy, Whistleblowing Policy and Code of Conduct and Ethics. On December 9, KFS launched the three documents during the commemoration of International Anti-Corruption Day. During the launch, illegal logging, especially the extraction of endangered indigenous trees, such as cedar was said to be among the top 10 corruption risks. The loss of forest land, undervaluation of forest materials and mismanagement of forest plantations were other corruption risks identified. Kamau said KFS Whistleblowing Policy provides a conducive framework for reporting the cases in confidence. The policy provides the legal framework that guides whistleblowing, roles and responsibilities of the board of directors and management and other employees, and the whistleblowing process. It further sought to complement KFS’s Code of Conduct and Ethics, Corruption Prevention Policy, Human Resource Policy and Procedures and other policies. The review of the policy embraced best practices and was supported by UN Office on Drugs and Crime together with a dedicated team from KFS’s Integrity Committee. The policy says whistleblowers’ confidentiality will always be respected and maintained. The identity of a whistleblower shall not be disclosed without their consent. However, for the purposes of investigation, and in rare cases, it may be necessary to disclose the source of the data or information as the process of investigation continues.(Edited by Amol Awuor)