A total of 349 people have lost their lives in road accidents countrywide since the beginning of the year. This is according to a report by the National Transport and Safety Authority and the National Police Service shows. About 105 boda boda riders and 107 pedestrians account for more than 50 per cent of those who lost their lives this year. The report, which was released on Monday in Mombasa, shows that out of the 349 fatalities in January, drivers were 29, passengers 61, pillion passengers 42 and cyclists five. A summary of fatalities in January 2022 compared to January 2021 shows an increased variation of about 22.5 per cent. Last year in January, 285 people died in road accidents. As of January 25 this year, 1,591 people had been involved in road accidents. The figures show that 759 people were seriously injured and another 483 getting slight injuries. A total of 4,571 people lost their lives in road accidents last year compared to 3,963 in the year 2020, according to the report. Speaking in Mombasa on Thursday during the opening of a two-day joint workshop on the Development of Road Crash Database System in Kenya, NTSA deputy director for road safety programmes Dr Duncan Kibogong said the increase in road carnage in the country is a result of increased numbers of vehicles on the roads, especially boda bodas. “Much of the rise in fatalities are due to the increase in the number of vehicles, in particular boda bodas. Looking at the statistics, motorbikes account for up to 40 per cent of all road fatalities, having risen from about five per cent in the last 15 years,” Kabogong said. Kenya registers up to 30,000 new boda bodas every year. He said they were working on ways to regulate the boda boda industry to reduce the number of deaths caused by the operators on Kenyan roads. “Currently, we are working to have all the boda bodas pushed into a sacco like the matatus, where they will have structures to operate formally with regulations. Motorcycle rules of 2015 stipulate that you cannot operate a boda boda without being in a Sacco,” he said. He added that once complete, the database system will play a pivotal role in identifying the most dangerous roads in the country and put in place the necessary measures to reduce road carnage. He further called on Kenyans to take up the road safety issue personally, saying it was not only the prerogative of the government to ensure safety on the roads. “We all have a role to play when it comes to road safety,” he said. The Kenya National Highway Authority representatives Eng Samuel Omer said vandalism of road infrastructure was a challenge, adding that they lose about 10 per cent of all the money used for repairs annually to vandalism. Omer, who is in charge of highway planning and design, said KeNHA has suffered the brunt of vandalism compared to all other authorities in charge of roads in the country. “We have the issue of guard rails being stolen, you can remember we lost a Nyeri governor in a tragic road accident. We think perhaps it could have been a reason for vandalism, some people might have tampered the guard rails,” Omer said. He said some road sections are missing traffic signs which were vandalised thus putting more drivers in great danger. He hailed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ban on the export and dealings in scrap metals in the country, following increased cases of vandalism especially on power lines in the country. “Some of the accidents might have happened due to vandalism that is witnessed in the country, we are happy that the government has finally decided to deal with this problem. We should equally be concerned about vandalism on our road infrastructure,” he said.    -Edited by SKanyara