For freshly baked cakes, delicious breakfast, vegan or vegetarian meals with a combo of colourful artsy meals, The Daily Café should be your go-to place. Their daily menu is in-house developed from scratch. It is designed to cater for breakfast, lunch and dinner with perfection. Customers can also order up from their website and get their meals within minutes. Located on Argwings Khodek road in the Upper Hill’s Nairobi Hospital, the restaurant is the perfect location for a cosy and casual family brunch and cute Instagram able spots. Here, most of the dishes on the menu are served with excellent bread, but you can also order a slice of Yummy Tiramisu served with love and perfection. Brunch lovers who prefer a lighter breakfast selection over bacon should try the sunny eggs platter under the English breakfast which is served with two fried eggs, baked beans, two beef sausages, grilled bacon & tomato and fruits to the side. For the main course, we recommend trying the Paprika fries which pairs surprisingly well with the Crunchy chips tossed with smoked Spanish paprika and mushroom cream sauce. Together with honey glazed chicken wings, the combo creates the perfect blend of flavours. For beverage, I had a vanilla milkshake, on a scale of one to ten, a 6 would do. I could taste the milk and not the vanilla and that turned me a little bit off. Perhaps you would try signature coffee or slushy, which I have heard great things about For salad lovers, shrimp, avocado and roasted corn salad are top-rated dishes. It has an amazing combination of assorted lettuce mixed with avocado chunks, roasted corn, sautéed shrimps, crispy bacon tossed in a rich signature creamy dressing. If you do not like shrimp, there is a chicken option. For dessert, coffee is their signature, so I opted for the Tiramisu slice which was heavenly, as all the flavours burst in my mouth. The portions are generous and each dish in the restaurant is served for sharing and definitely 5-star customer service. I paid less than Sh3,000 for all the meals which was a steal for me. Ambience The restaurant has a very cosy atmosphere and they have a keen eye when it comes to décor, lighting and choice of music. A mix of wooden floors, high ceilings and vintage portraits on the walls draws your eyes when you first enter. They are strictly observing the Covid-19 protocols; in terms of temperature checking and setting the tables a meter apart. Hygiene is also something they have paid attention to, by the way, they clean and mop surfaces after every 30 minutes. I feel they could have at least separated the male and female washrooms because they have to share the tap area, which can inconvenience girls who would want to powder their noses after a heavy meal. But all in all, the place is breathtaking and there is ample parking space. About the daily café The Café is a product of Paprika Limited Company - owned by two established and visionary entrepreneurs in Kenya. “With keen awareness to detail, our unique branch designs, menu variation and pricing ensure that we embrace the community’s needs and desires. All this has been a proven winner with all our esteemed customers.” a message from their website reads. The Co-Founder and managing director Dekel Ben Hamo who is a well-recognized person in the Nairobi Culinary Circles has played a huge role in the growth and solidarity of the team spirit in the café, which to be honest has the best customer service in Kenya.