The government is planning to eradicate tsetse flies from Nyatike subcounty. The drive will begin this year through the Kenya Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Eradication Council. Nyatike residents will be organised into community animal spraying groups and trained on how to control the pests. KENTTEC coordinator for Migori and Homa Bay counties John Mwangi said on Monday the community will be given animal spraying pumps and insecticides free of charge. This, he said, will ensure the livestock are free from tsetse fly and trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness caused by the pest. “For those farmers that are practising zero grazing, we will give out zero tsetse fly nets that are impregnated with insecticides and then installed on zero grazing units to get rid of the flies,” Mwangi said in Migori town. He said residents in the lake region are at a higher risk of being infected with sleeping sickness because the area is the epicentre of tsetse flies. “We did an annual survey in the county to establish the population density of tsetse flies in September and Nyatike was the only place in Migori with the pest, other 38 counties also had the pests and similar drives will be rolled out,” Mwangi said. He said KENTTEC has managed to completely eradicate tsetse flies in Migori, Suna West and Suna East, which were infested before. Mwangi said they have been encouraging sustainable land management in the two subcounties and urged farmers to improve their local breeds through artificial insemination. “Now that the two subcounties are free of tsetse and trypanosomiasis, we are encouraging farmers to improve their breeds to improve milk and beef production,” he said. Mwangi said Lambwe Valley at Ruma National Park in Homa Bay is still the epicentre of the tsetse problem in Kenya. He said the government has put in more resources to ensure that humans, livestock and wildlife are safe. The government has installed 2,000 tsetse fly target nets with insecticides at Ruma National Park to help protect the wild animals from nagana disease. “The reduction of tsetse flies and trypanosomiasis in Lambwe Valley has enabled the government to introduce the black rhino, an endangered species at Ruma National Park to encourage local tourism,” Mwangi added. Edited by A.N