The government has employed at least 100 National Police Reservists to help fight crime and killings in remote villages in Lamu. The NPR officers have been incorporated into the security plan owing to the recent attacks in Witho, Hindi and Mpeketoni villages that left 15 people dead and 10 houses torched by suspected al Shabaab militants. Coast regional commissioner John Elungata confirmed the deployment of the reservists and said their job is to heighten intelligence in their respective villages and cooperate with other security agencies in restoring peace and stability in the county. The officers have all been deployed to villages that were recently attacked. Addressing the reservists at the Kibaoni police station, Elungata asked them to gather as much intelligence as possible on those behind the attacks to enable the security agents deal with them "effectively and promptly". They are also required to ensure locals and property are well protected. Elungata said the officers will receive all the necessary support from the government, including food for their families. “We will provide foodstuff, including maize and wheat flour and oil, to the families of all the NPRs incorporated in this operation. We’re doing this so that you remain focused on dealing with the enemy for the 30 to 40 days of fieldwork,” the administrator said. The reservists have been dispatched to Juhudi, Ukumbi, Widho, Marafa, Salama, Mashogoni, Kamukunji, Muhamarani, Majembeni, Kibokoni, Bobo-Sunkia, Githurai and surrounding villages of Mpeketoni, Mkunumbi, Hindi, and Witu divisions of Lamu West subcounty. They are expected to conduct crackdowns in coordination with the police and the military for at least 30 days. “We are using all means to defeat the enemy and I am confident that your services as the NPR will go a long way in enabling us mop out criminal elements that have terrorised our villages,”Elungata said . Describing the enemy as a ‘snake’, he said the NPR had been provided with advanced rifles to ‘deal’ with it. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia described the reservists as civilian police who will be instrumental in the ongoing multi-agency operation. “They are very well conversant with these villages. They are also trusted by locals, meaning the flow of information between residents and security agencies will improve, thus boosting the operation," Macharia said. The reservists will receive a monthly stipend of Sh5,000, which will be paid in a lump sum of Sh10,000 after every two months. Some of the reservists, however, said the amount is low compared to the sacrifice they are making towards securing the region. Harrison Njogu, a father of three and has worked as a reservist for five years, said the government should increase their stipend. “Our plea is that they increase the stipend to at least Sh25,000 per month. After all, we are putting our lives on the line here,” Njogu said . Lamu has more than 400 reservists spread across the county.