Traders who were evicted from Kibuye market in Kisumu have elected their officials as they wait to be allowed back upon completion of the construction works. They were evicted more than two years ago to pave the way for the upgrade of the market. The traders were temporarily resettled at an alternative space christened “corona market” next to Moi Stadium. During the election, Kennedy Sande was elected assistant organising secretary for Kibuye market foodstuff section. Collins Idambo Malanya and Linet Onyango were elected as organising secretary and treasurer respectively. Jackson Wando and Kennedy Anditi were elected vice secretary and secretary respectively. Judith Adhiambo Matengo is the chairperson and Rose Olum is the vice chairperson. The Friday election was presided over by city director of trade, markets and enterprise development Bovince Ochieng. Ochieng praised traders for being organised and conducting a peaceful election. He urged them to work together with the county government to increase their income. Matengo termed the election free, credible, fair and transparent. “The election was done through the mlolongo system in a public place. It was clear and people could see who had the support of the traders,” she said. Matengo asked traders to desist from propaganda and focus on issues that benefit them. She praised Governor Anyang' Nyong’o and city manager Abala Wanga for supporting traders. Matengo extended an olive branch to those who lost in the election to join them and work together. “In any election, there must be a winner and a loser. It is therefore my humble appeal to our competitors to join us and move together for the sake of our socio-economic growth,” the chairperson said. Matengo pledged to convene a meeting to unite the traders for a common goal. “There cannot be tangible growth in a home or house where people usually fight. For a long time, cartels have worked hard to divide traders in Kibuye. But that is set to end,” she said. Nyong’o, she said, has shown commitment to support traders but his efforts have always been derailed by lack of leadership and cartels in Kibuye market. She said some cartels were landlords and had more than 80 shops where they collected rent from traders. “We’ve today seen leadership and this is the start of a new era for traders in Kibuye market,” Matengo added. “We want to ensure only genuine traders are settled in Kibuye complex market upon completion.” Matengo pledged to work closely with the county government to empower traders as well as provide a clean environment for doing business. Wanga said the facelift will make the market one of the most beautiful in East and Central Africa. He said the infrastructure improvement in the market is aimed at increasing the revenue base for the county. Edited by A.N