My mind is made up. I am leaving this crappy planet. I am going to Alpha Centauri, and there’s nothing any of you can do to stop me. Now, clever people say it will take you four light-years to travel from our planet to the nearest constellation to ours, the Alpha Centauri. For those of you who have never read anything beyond Edger Obare’s tea, a constellation is a collection of stars that may or may not have planets revolving around them. Apparently, Alpha Centauri is the only known system besides our own that clever people think could harbour habitable planets much like our own Earth. And of course, you don’t understand what four light-years mean because you are not descended from a long line of clever people like I am, so I will be kind enough to illuminate you. It will take you four Earth years traveling at… wait for it… not the speed of a supersonic plane, not even the speed of a bullet, but the speed of light — yes, light — to get to Alpha Centauri. Of course, I am assuming you are familiar with the speed of light. Well, if you are not, sorry, I did not go to school for you so. Okay, I’ll just tell you, if for nothing else but to revel in the satisfaction of rubbing my intellect in all of your faces. Light travels at the speed of 300 million metres per second. Yes, dummy, that is very fast, faster than anything your feeble mind can comprehend. Four years isn’t that long now, is it? I am 23 so if I leave today, I’ll get there at 27. See, I’ll still be less than a quarter of Bwana Atwoli’s age. But there is a catch. My great great grand uncle, Albert Einstein (told you I descend from a long line of clever people) says nothing that has mass can achieve the speed of light. Which, of course, is what I need to get to Alpha Centauri since the speed of Betty Kyallo’s break-ups just isn’t fast enough. In other words, the faster you get, the heavier you become, and the heavier you become, the slower you get. That is Einstein’s law of relativity, by the way. Yeah, it is some weird stuff like that. This presents quite a scientific conundrum, which, as a scientist, I must unravel, seeing that I did not sit in a Computer Science class for four years to boil stones. In any case, just a few years ago, some ‘clever’ people believed it was biologically impossible for black people to learn science, and yet, here I am, lecturing y’all about Einstein and stuff. Sadly though, there is still you, in black skin, who up to this moment believes the earth is flat like your nose. Proving them pricks right about dark skin being not so smart, huh? No matter, I am leaving. It has been a pleasure sharing this air with you all, and I would even say that I am no longer as irked by all the mouth breathers out here as I used to be. In fact, by leaving, I am doing you all a favour because if I stay, I’ll be reporting everything you post on social media to Zukabaga. You ask why I am leaving the planet and I will tell you why. Newsflash, it has got nothing to do with the dystopian extinction of life, global warming, yada yada. There is nothing like global warming, by the way. In Nairobi, January is supposed to be hot everybody! It is not global warming. “It is so hot, this global warming will kill us,” says a clueless Nairobian. I am leaving the planet because you all are bloody fake friends and you suck! I trusted you and the first thing you did for me this year is let me down. I needed you, and you spit on my face. Here is my issue. A few weeks ago I told you guys about my resolutions this year. Stuff I would peg my life on this 2022. They were all astute, important and life-changing, but perhaps the most remarkable of them all was my plan to become an Instagram Influencer because I want to live a soft life, like them all Influencers. I had 15 Instagram followers by then, and I figured that if you and the entire members of your clans followed me, I could hit 10,000 followers by now, which would be enough to start my journey as a prospective, six-figure worth, top influencer. So how is it that two weeks later, I have, not 10,000 followers, not 5,000, not even a thousand followers, but 13 miserable people? I started the year with 15 followers and now I have 13 thanks to my ex who picked a ‘fine-time-to-leave-me-Lucille’ by unfollowing me right when I need followers the more. And as if that was not enough to have me compose a sad song like Kenny Rodgers, she had her two mindless minions unfollow me, too. Now how am I going to be an influencer with 13 followers? Explain to me using any laws of physics or mathematical principles how I should give Azziad a run for that corporate cash with 13 followers. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a pleasure. Earth has been great but now it is time I go try this thing called life somewhere else, where there are no fake friends like you all. Adios or whatever.