The Kenya Urban Roads Authority director general Silas Kinoti has welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s move to ban trade in scrap metal. The move according to Kinoti will play a big role in curbing vandalism of road infrastructure. “This is a new year gift to us in the roads sector. We have been suffering immense loses due to vandalism of road furniture. We hope the relevant government institutions will implement the President's directive 101 per cent,” he said on Saturday. Last Thursday while in Kiganjo, Nyeri county, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a moratorium on scrap metal trade in the country. He said this was part of government efforts to end the rising cases of vandalism of key public installations. The President highlighted the moratorium will stay in place until the government comes up with adequate measures to effectively police the sourcing, trade and export of scrap metals. He warned those found culpable of vandalism of state infrastructure will be dealt with firmly. While referring to the recent vandalism of electricity pylons in Imara Daima that plunged the country into darkness, the Standard Gauge Railway and communication masts, Uhuru termed the acts as economic sabotage. The President said the government won't tolerate the destruction. In October last year, Eng Kinoti decried that vandalism of road signs and other infrastructure was on the increase. He said the authority will work closely with law enforcement agencies to curb vandalism. Between July and September, over 30 street poles worth Sh2.5 million were mowed down and scathed away by vandals in Nairobi City County in an organised crime syndicate. The road agency has urged the public to respect the roads because they use them daily. Kinoti said a lot of road furniture had been carted away on Outering road. He called on the police and other relevant agencies to partner with KURA and curb vandalism. Last week, the Kenya National Highways Authority said at least 260 police officers are attached to it to guard crucial infrastructure. The agency said the officers have been briefed on beefing up security along major Highways and curb vandalism.   -Edited by SKanyara