Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA has distanced itself from a power deal that claims to lock some counties for ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. UDA on Monday clarified it has no coalition agreement yet and all seats are open for contest. The party’s national chairman Johnson Muthama told supporters to disregard the media reports as the outfit is yet to enter into any agreement with Mudavadi and Wetangula. He, however, said an agreement between UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya is in the works. Muthama was responding to reports that the Kenya Kwanza coalition had agreed to lock Nairobi, Kakamega and allow Mudavadi’s ANC to field candidates for the coalition. While Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties were earmarked for Ford Kenya. The reports could mean the end of the road for several UDA leaders - Margaret Wanjiru and Boni Khalwale - who had expressed interest in some of the regions. Wanjiru,  former Starehe MP, is eyeing the Nairobi gubernatorial seat while Khalwale is seeking to replace Wycliffe Oparanya as Kakamega governor. Both are battling for the UDA ticket. That would mean a smooth ride for Johnson Sakaja and Cleophas Malala who are both eyeing Nairobi and Kakamega gubernatorial seats respectively. On Monday, Muthama moved to quell discomfort in the UDA house saying no zoning has been done. The former Machakos senator said it has no coalition agreement with ANC and Ford Kenya dismissing reports of a power-sharing deal. He said they are currently operating based on friendship. Addressing a press conference at his Gigiri office, Muthama told supporters to disregard media reports of a deal in the Kenya Kwanza coalition. “We are friends who continue talking and engaging but when the time comes, that issue will be dealt with. We are in talks to see how we can move forward together,” he said. Muthama said the three parties are still independent and are yet to get into a negotiation table that will set the ground for working together. He said their coming together was necessitated by the need to bring the country together ahead of the August polls. Muthama’s remarks come barely a day after Musalia said Ruto is not the automatic flag bearer of the alliance and soon they will meet to agree on how to pick a candidate who will face Azimio leader Raila Odinga. “We shall name the candidate who will fly the Kenya Kwanza flag in the elections. However, at the moment our priority is to unite Kenyans and ensure we have a peaceful election,” Mudavadi said on Sunday after a church service at St. Faith Parish, ACK in Rongai. Edited by Kiilu Damaris