President Uhuru Kenyatta has expressed his disappointment with ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi for teaming up with his estranged deputy William Ruto as he laid out an elaborate fightback plan. Uhuru spoke as the haemorrhage in ANC continued with indications that Vihiga Senator George Khaniri is also set to dump Mudavadi for ODM chief Raila Odinga. At least six lawmakers have ditched Mudavadi over the last one month. At a State House meeting on Tuesday, Uhuru termed Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula's decision to back Ruto as "misguided and disappointing" "The President was clear that we do everything possible to consolidate Western Kenya behind Azimio la Umoja because that is the political direction of the country,” Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya told the Star. The President told Western Kenya leaders that Mudavadi had frustrated him. He said all along, Mudavadi and Wetangula were taking him for a ride about their 2022 political plans. Information gleaned from some of the politicians who attended the meeting lifted the lid on a visibly angry president, let down by people he thought were his "friends.” “The President said he was disappointed in Mudavadi for agreeing to work with Ruto yet he was talking with them all along,” Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu said. He went on, “The head of state said he thought they were friends only for Mudavadi to betray him.” The President has bitterly fallen out with his deputy and has isolated him from his succession plans. The President reportedly asked the Western leaders who included 32 MPs and four governors to ready for a major political fight against the Ruto camp. “He said clearly that the fight won’t be easy but he asked us to hit the ground for campaigns without any delay,” Eseli said. The President had previously held at least three meeting with the One Kenya Alliance principals including Mudavadi, Wetang'ula, Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper over his succession plans. The meetings were seen as part of the President’s bigger succession strategy to reunite Oka with Raila. The aim was to build a major political machine to face Ruto in the August 9 General Election. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya told the Star that the President was clear on his political direction. He said the President termed the Mudavadi and Wetang'ula team as "misguided and disappointing." According to Oparanya, the President left no doubt about his preference of his successor as he asked them to rally firmly behind Raila Governors Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Vihiga’s Wilber Otitchilo attended the State House meeting. The governor said the President will soon visit the region to assess the progress of his legacy projects and thank Kenyans for their trust in him during his tenure. As ANC camp continued to suffer defections,  Khaniri dumped Mudavadi for Raila’a Azimio la Umoja. Eseli said Khaniri joined leaders from Western Kenya in the State House delegation and even held private talks with the President. “Khaniri has ditched Mudavadi. What we do not know is where he is headed to because he could go to ODM , DAP-K or any other outfit that supports Azimio la Umoja,” he added. This was the first time the President was opening up on his feelings about the political agreement between Ruto, Musalia and Wetang'ula as the presidential contest takes shape. The trio on Sunday announced plans to work together in the August 9, presidential election, sinking the One Kenya Alliance outfit and in which they were principals. During his National Delegates Convention, Mudavadi tore into Uhuru’s administration saying it had not only impoverished Kenyans but auctioned its future generations. The former vice president on Monday maintained that Oka was a ploy orchestrated by the deep state to propel Raila to the Presidency at the expense of Oka chiefs. “There was a belief that Oka was to be stringed along and made to work with one of the political camps—Azimio. But all I can tell you is that I have stood my ground and made my mind,” Mudavadi said in an interview with a local TV station. He went on, “Clearly, there are some people who would not want to see a free and fair election by trying to influence the poll. Some people are doing everything to shape the succession." 