Kakamega Homeboyz skipper Geoffrey Oputi reckons their big win in the top-two battle against KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday injected some significant zest into their quest for a maiden Kenyan Premier League title. Oputi, who was stretchered off in the second half after incurring a deep cut in his upper lip following a nasty mid-air collision with an opponent, said the victory served to ease off the pressure that had existed prior to the encounter. Bernard Mwalala's side rallied from a goal down to edge the bankers 3-2 on a day that Yema Mwamba netted a brace, the outcome firing them five points clear of the bankers. “We came to the game focused on winning and I'm glad we managed to bag all the three points. That has eased off the pressure they were giving us owing to the slim point difference that existed between us prior to the win,” said Oputi. Homeboyz will look to replicate this performance when they take on second-placed Nairobi City Stars who ascended to third after seeing off defending champions Tusker 1-0 at Ruaraka Grounds over the weekend. “We hope to maintain our splendid form when we come up against Nairobi City Stars on Thursday," said Oputi. Oputi hopes to secure a starting role against City Stars at Bukhungu, adding that the medics assured him he would be up and running after two to three days following a successful minor procedure on his lip. “The doctors told me I need about two to three days to recover fully from the injury and, hopefully, I'll be fit enough to feature against City Stars,” said Oputi. Oputi believes they already boast of sufficient depth to fire them to a maiden title after they missed out by a whisker to finish second to Gor Mahia after the competition was called off midway through the fixtures owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “I'm not so sure if the coach intends to beef up the squad during the ongoing mid-season transfer window. It's entirely upon him to make such decisions. However, I believe our current squad can compete effectively for any honours,” said Oputi.