Nairobi and Rift Valley regions Wednesday, January 12 got new Regional Commissioners (RC) in changes announced by the Office of the President. Also affected were Western, Eastern, Central and North Eastern. The changes were announced by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho who said they be effected immediately. The new Nairobi RC will be William Kangethe Thuku who was two weeks ago named the Chief Administrative Secretary for Correctional Services. The new Rift Valley RC will be Makueni County Commissioner Mohamed Maalim. This follows the resignation of George Natembeya from Rift Valley as the RC to seek to be elected as Trans Nzoia County governor. Even though he resigned, Natembeya was moved to Harambee House where he will clear his way out. Those affected were Wednesday called to the Office of the President Harambee House and informed of the changes. Eastern RC Isaiah Nakoru was moved to Western in the same capacity and replaced by Narok County Commissioner Evans Achoki on a promotional basis. Western’s RC Esther Maina was moved to Central in the same capacity while Nairobi’s James Kianda was sent to North Eastern to replace Nicodemus Ndalana who was recalled to Harambee House. Central RC Wilfred Nyagwanga was recalled to Harambee House. The changes come in the wake of calls for the ways operations are conducted in the regions ahead of the August polls. Regional Commissioners usually chair security meetings and other national administration issues. The former provincial administration was restructured to accommodate the new commissioners. This followed the ushering of the 2010 constitution. The RCs replaced Provincial Commissioners in the new dispensation. The chair and coordinate national government issues in their regions including security matters. National Administration is one of the Departments in the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government with a staff complement of 12,575 which includes eight Regional Coordinators, 47 County Commissioners, 289 Deputy County Commissioners, 831 Assistant County Commissioners, 3,256 Chiefs and 8,145 Assistant Chiefs.