President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party will soon unveil former Prime Minister Raila Odinga as their joint candidate ahead of the August election. This is even as Murang'a leaders demand that Raila considers Peter Kenneth as his running mate. Uhuru’s right-hand man David Murathe on Monday disclosed plans are at an advanced stage to formally back the ODM boss for a grand duel with Deputy President William Ruto. Speaking during Azimio la Umoja rally in Murang'a, the Jubilee vice chairman said they will have a twin National Delegates Conference that will culminate in unveiling of Raila at Nyayo National Stadium. He, however, did not mention the dates. Jubilee was to have NDC last year but was cancelled at the last minute. The former Gatanga MP said after chasing DP and his team from the outfit, they have no candidate and will rally behind Raila to succeed Uhuru who is retiring in August. “Soon we will hold our NDC and we will ask delegates to adopt Raila as our candidate," Murathe said. "Ours will be at KICC and ODM will have theirs at Bomas, then we meet at Nyayo and unveil our joint candidate under Azimio la Umoja.” The Monday meeting was attended by Murang'a tycoons and opinion leaders ahead of Raila's major rally in Murang'a on Saturday. The meeting also offered a bashing platform for the new marriage between DP Ruto, Amani National Congress boss Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. National Assembly Minority Leader Junet Mohammed said there is nothing new the alliance can offer, saying most of their leaders are tainted. “They are saying birds of the same feather flock together. These are people who have eaten cemetery money, the other one was in Tokyo scandal while the other has dam scandal,” Junet said. “Who was the minister when Goldenberg—the biggest corruption scandal in the country—was paid?  Who was the Finance minister when inflation hit 85 per cent?” Kenneth asked. He accused Ruto’s camp of dishonesty in criticising the debt levels, saying Garissa Township MP Aden Duale was the mastermind of the push when he was the National Assembly Majority Leader. The area leadership also laid their demands to the ODM boss who has intensified his forays into the region. The Saturday rally expected to be attended by Uhuru's men in the region will coincide with a similar one by Ruto who on Sunday announced he too will be in Mt Kenya. “I am coming to Murang'a on Saturday. We will meet on Saturday,” Raila said. The presidential candidate highlighted his 10-point agenda for the country, insisting he has what it takes to move the country from third world to middle income economy. “Kenya is playing below its potential. If we unite the country and work hard we can move Kenya from third world to middle level economy,” he said. During the meeting, a section of leaders from the county said they want  Raila to pick his deputy from Murang’a county. The leaders, led by five MPs affiliated with the Jubilee, said they have staunchly supported the last two governments and that it is now time for the county to be considered. Speaking at Thika Greens Gold Club in Murang’a, the leaders endorsed Kenneth to be Raila’s deputy, saying he is capable of rallying the region behind him. Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege said local leaders will be hitting the grassroots rooting for Raila. “We will support and walk this journey with you but we also want to ask that when you get there, don’t forget Murang’a,” she said. Murathe said the county has many leaders with the leadership qualities needed for such a position. He said aside from Kenneth, there are other strong leaders such as Sabina who can fly the flag of the county high. While emphasising his support for Raila, Murathe said he is the only leader capable of continuing the legacy of Uhuru. His history, he said, demonstrates that he is a leader who is ready to sacrifice his interests for the good of the country. “This is the person who I know can unite the country and that is why his motto is Azimio la Umoja,” he added. (edited by Amol Awuor)