The Office of Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai has responded to UDA's claims of "state-sponsored violence" ahead of the the August elections. In a statement on Wednesday, National Police Service spokesperson Bruno Shioso termed the claims baseless and false. Shioso said the allegations of state officers sponsoring violence against the party are maliciously intended to injure the reputation of the NPS and its officers. UDA on Tuesday formally wrote to the International Criminal Court (ICC), claiming the party was concerned about the recent "deeply worrying security" incidents. UDA Secretary-General Veronica Maina said this in connection to the Jacaranda chaos over the weekend. Deputy President William Ruto's rally at Jacaranda was marred with chaos after rowdy youths hurled stones at the crowd. But Shioso said none of the allegations listed in the said letter had been formally reported to the NPS. "The allegations form a sustained and regrettable streak of unfounded, outrageous, and provocative allegations by the leadership of the party," Shioso said. He defended the NPS as an institution committed to the rule of law. "The National Police Service is a professional institution that is committed to the rule of law and upholding of laid out protocols that guide the conduct of political rallies and other public events. These guidelines will continue to be upheld fairly, firmly, and robustly without favours or exceptions," he said. "As the country heads to the General Election, we urge all stakeholders to exercise sobriety and refrain from acts and deeds that undermine our institutions and offices that are critical to the unity and security of the Nation," he added. But Maina claimed that so far, over 10 major criminal incidents of violence had taken place. Out of this, at least six were brought to the attention of the IG. The six include chaos in Kisii on September 2, Murang'a on October 4, Taita Taveta chaos on August 24, 2021, Kondele, Busia, and Nyeri chaos. “They have all gone unattended by his office. This negligence on their part is not only dismaying to the law-abiding Kenyans and disappointing to the UDA fraternity, but it also explicitly signals the state's approval,” she said. UDA demanded assurance from President Uhuru Kenyatta that Kenyan lives and property remain protected under the law. "...and that the instruments of state and security apparatus will not be deployed in a partisan manner or to cause mayhem and deaths to propel a preferred candidate to victory," she said.