Governors have called on members of the public to be vigilant and report any suspicious activities and individuals around them in the wake of the recent attacks in Lamu. The Council of Governors condemned the recent wave of attacks that have left seven people dead and termed it barbaric and an act of cowardice. “During such times, we must remain united and not allow the enemy to distract us. This was a barbaric and an act of cowardice by the perpetrators,” CoG chairman Martin Wambora said. “I urge the national government and all the security stakeholders to ensure that strengthen our internal security to ensure that such acts do not recur.” At least six people were Monday morning killed following an attack by the Widhu Majembeni area in Lamu County. Police said the attackers also torched several houses in the attack before escaping. One of the victims was shot dead, another was hacked to death while the other four were burnt to death in their house, police and survivors said. The attack was anticipated by security agencies who said the gang had been sighted in the larger Boni forest and was on the move. Five suspects were on Tuesday arrested over the attack. The National Security Council met for the first time this year to discuss the fatal attacks. The council, which met under the chairmanship of President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday, later issued a number of orders to be implemented as part of efforts to address insecurity threats in the area. Among them was the 30-day dusk-to-dawn curfew effective Wednesday. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i also declared four divisions in the county a disturbed area. The CS directed the immediate deployment of a multi-agency security team to mop-up illegal firearms and activities in the affected areas. National Police Service spokesperson Bruno Shioso said the suspects are being grilled over the attack which is linked to land disputes. He added that they are following leads in a bid to establish whether the attack has any connections with the outlawed al Shabaab militia or their sympathisers operating in the area. “All the suspects are locals and we are talking to them to establish more over the attack,” he said. Edited by D Tarus