The family of a DCI officer whose badly mutilated body was found dumped in Baringo is demanding a probe into his killing. DCI officer Abdirahim Adow Abdullahi, who was based in Embu, went missing on January 20. Authorities say he was under the radar for poaching claims, which the family has denied. The body was found by schoolchildren near Tambach Primary School on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties. The children raised the alarm and officers from Tambach police station came to the scene. It had deep cuts to the head, face and the neck had signs of strangulation. His hands were tied with a rope from behind. Abdullahi was a police constable stationed at Itabua Mugoya police station and attached to the DCI department in Embu. He hailed from Wajir county and had served for 12 years. One of his widows Zainab Dheka who was living with him in Embu said Abdullahi had gone for an assignment in Mombasa on the day he went missing. Abdullahi had eight children. Friends and relatives flocked Iten County Referral mortuary where the body was taken to await postmortem. Baringo police boss Robinson Ndiwa said investigations into the incident were ongoing. It is said that the deceased was in the company of a friend identified as Yahya Hassan when he went missing. Hassan is still missing. The two had told their families they were headed to Mombasa for an assignment. Abdullahi's brother Abdikadir Abdulahi said after filing a missing person report at Isiolo police station where his car was found on Friday, he was referred to Embu. Speaking in Iten after viewing the body on Tuesday, Abdikadir said his brother was handling 11 drug-related cases before he went missing last week. “The police who are investigating the matter since we reported the disappearance of our loved one have taken long to unravel the circumstances under which he went missing at his work station,” he said. They urged Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to ensure their son's killers are brought to book. (edited by Amol Awuor)