Officials who will be elected at the upcoming Cricket Kenya elections  have been asked to build upon the foundations erected by the Cricket Normalisation Committee. Chair of the committee, Lady Justice (Rtd) Joyce Aluoch, said they have worked hard to restore normalcy in the sport and would like to see the same maintained by the incoming office bearers. "The Committee has also ensured the smooth running of Cricket Kenya’s operations including national team preparations for local and international events. We hope that what we have begun will be sustained beyond our tenure," Aluoch said. She added that, in particular, they have done a lot to uplift playing standards of women's cricket, which was on its deathbed. "Notably, when the Committee took over, very little women’s cricket was being played in the country. With the support of  Sports Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed, the Principal Secretary and well-wishers, the Committee has distributed equipment to clubs which had expressed interest to participate in the women’s league," she said. The national women's team is currently in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia where they are battling Scotland, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka for a berth at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July. Those intending to vie for positions on February 26 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani will be required to submit their applications to the Independent Elections Panel once they release their calendar of activities. The committee, chaired by Kenneth Wayne Mutuma, will oversee the entire process, culminating in the submission of a report to the committee as well as the sports registrar, a week after the election of new officials. "The committee have appointed the following individuals as chairperson and members of the Independent Elections Panel with effect from 15th January 2022 to 15th March 2022. They will in due cause share the calendar of its activities with public," Aluoch said. She was speaking in Mombasa when she announced the new dates for elections, the final piece in the puzzle of what has been troubling times on and off the pitch for cricket. Appointed by Amina on March 16 last year, the committee undertook a flurry of meetings with stakeholders to assess the state of cricket in Kenya and to develop a new constitution for the body. Moreover, they have midwifed the registration of 10 cricket clubs or county associations by the sports registrar. "The registration process is continuous and therefore the committee encourages any other interested parties to apply," she said.