The county government of Lamu has commenced plans to overhaul the Kizingitini ice plant to optimise efficiency. Through the department of Fisheries and Blue economy, the move is meant to extend and boost capacity of the ice plant as part of the county's blue print to spur the fisheries sector. The initiative is equally part of county’s post-Covid-19 recovery efforts, to cushion over 3,500 fishermen in Lamu East subcounty from the pandemic effects. Speaking during an inspection tour of the plant, the county Chief Officer for Fisheries and Blue Economy Abdul Fatah explained why the county was conducting a complete overhaul of the ice plant. Currently, the plant is only able to produce 2 metric tonnes of flake ice daily. Fatah says with the overhaul, the plant should be able to do over 8 metric tonnes in 24 hours. “This would assist reduce post-harvest losses and empower fishermen to determine pricing by allowing them to keep their catch fresh for longer,” Fatah said. The expansion of the building housing the ice plant is over 70 per cent complete. There is also a plan that includes the construction of an extra storey to help elevate the flake machines for standard operation, additional offices, toilets, two doorways and one more cold room. "Because Kizingitini village is a convenient location, fishermen from nearby villages will be able to access ice without having to travel to Lamu Island or Mombasa. This reduces the distance traveled and extends the shelf life of the ice," Fatah said. The county government equally plans to test and operationalise another 8-tonne ice flake machine at the nearby Faza Island Ice Plant, which is meant to complement the plant's existing 2-tonne flake ice machine. The cold chain effort would assist over 20 fishermen villages in Lamu East, including Ishakani, Kiunga, Mwambore, Rubu, Mkokoni, Chandani, Kiwayu, Ndau, Faza, Kizingitini, Mbwajumwali, Chundwa, Siyu, Pate, Mtangawanda, Myabogi, Faza, Shanga Rubu, Shanga Ishakani, Mvundeni among others. There are plans to also resume the distribution of fishing gear and equipment to fishermen across the county. "We have purchased a variety of fishing equipment and gears that we will provide to our fishermen in order to improve fish production." "Fishing lines, gill nets, flippers, eco-sounders/fish finders, GPS, deep freezers, and cooler boxes will be given to fishermen. We delivered gears to over 10 BMUs in the last fiscal year, and we hope to cover the remaining ones this year," he said. The renovation is part of the county government’s intentional initiatives to make the fishing sector lucrative and vibrant while at the same time scouting for markets to enable Lamu fishermen reap maximum benefits and improve livelihoods.