The Mount Kenya Unity Forum, which brings together several party leaders from the vote-rich Central region, will hold a crucial meeting on Tuesday at Serena hotel. The meeting is expected to address an array of issues that members have been raising with regard to the August 9, elections. According to the invite sent to members by Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua, the meeting will iron out issues and differences facing the outfit. “Hon. Martha Karua - Convener of MKUF, invites you for a meeting on Tuesday 1st February 2022, 11 am at Serena hotel, confirm to me availability by end of day Saturday 29th,” the statement read. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, TSP party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri and Karua are the founder members of the Mount Kenya Unity forum. Party officials of MKUF include former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti (Rebuild and Restore Party), Esau Kioni of the Democratic Party (DP), Mpuru Apuri (National Ordinary People Empowerment Union) and Thuo Mathenge (The New Democrats). Others are Jacob Gitau (Peoples Party of Kenya) and Isaiah Gichu of the Party of Democratic Unity (PDU). Kuria has been missing in action because of the medical treatment he is receiving abroad after sustaining a third-degree burn on his feet. Speaking to Star Newspaper on Friday, The Service Party (TP) leader Kiunjuri failed to comment on the meeting and directed us to the secretariat. He, however, said MKUF is intact and ready to work for the Mount Kenya people. “We are very united, it only that, everyone is now busy campaigning and marketing their party, for example, I have been very busy receiving aspirants to the party as currently, I have more than 30 sitting MCAs and 15 MPs have joined the party and so to other party officials," he said. He also denied allegations that he is plotting to join Azimio la Umoja fronted by former prime minister Raila Odinga. A reliable source has told Star that, the group is also meeting to discuss how they will attend Kuria's homecoming event in Thika. “The MKUF meeting next week is expected to discuss issues to do with Limuru 3 meeting, MP Moses Kuria homecoming event and mending their differences, “he said. The New Democrats Party national chairman Thuo Mathenge has told the Star that the group leaders should consider working as a unit ahead of August polls. He said the issue of political affiliation should not arise at this time as it’s not important. The group in September last year met in Naivasha and unanimously elected Karua as the interim spokesperson. Before the Naivasha meeting, Karua met Kuria and the TSP party leader after which they announced unity of purpose. They also expressed commitment to working together on issues affecting Mt Kenya and the nation at large “irrespective of our political affiliation.” The group announced that they will hold Limuru 3 in February 2022 to announce the political direction they would take as a region. Edited by B.Marita