Machakos is the country’s peace headquarters, and it will remain so, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said. Kalonzo spoke during Okoa Kenya Alliance’s voter registration mobilization rally at Unoa stadium in Wote, Makueni County, on Friday. He said Machakos acted as peace headquarters during the 2007/8 post-election violence. “You voted for us in 2007, but there was post-election violence. ODM Kenya and Wiper Party united with (Retired President Mwai) Kibaki's PNU party, and we saved the country from bloodshed. We established the stable state of Kenya. Our people had died,” he said. Kalonzo was accompanied by several leaders, including ODM Presidential hopeful Jimi Wanjigi. The Wiper leader praised the ongoing Konza City Metropolis project in the region, stating that it will transform livelihoods through job creation and conducive living environments. “Konza City Metropolis project was not established in Nairobi because the city does not have enough water. Konza will receive water from the Thwake dam. This will happen within the first five years of my presidency if One Kenya Alliance forms the next government,” Kalonzo said. He further said the battle for the presidency in the August 9 elections was not a two-horse race between Deputy President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “You know what the Bible teaches me, some will take pride in their horses and chariots, but we will take pride in the name of the Lord,” Kalonzo added. He told the residents that he had no regrets following the decision by his former OKA principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula to join the UDA party. He, however, wondered what position Mudavadi had been offered in his new working arrangements with the deputy president. He revealed that he had agreed the ANC leader would deputize him in the quest for OKA to form the next government. “My two brothers ditched OKA, and I wish them luck... I just want to hand Kenya over to the youth. After five years, I was ready to hand over the leadership to Mudavadi so that we can also show Kenyans that there can be leaders whose words are their bonds.” He said issues of corruption and integrity in government must be dealt with. ODM presidential hopeful and businessman Jimi Wanjigi termed those urging Kalonzo to join Azimio la Umoja bandwagon as traitors. "Kalonzo should not accept to be betrayed again. We cannot tolerate traitors, this betrayal we can no longer be accepted," Wanjigi said. He said retired President Kibaki was a serious economist who brought money into citizens’ pockets. "President Uhuru Kenyatta had tried to develop infrastructure, especially in Nairobi and parts of the country, therefore, the work of the fifth president is to create jobs for the youth," he said.