National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi has urged Kenyans to consider him for presidency since he is not scandalous. Muturi said most politicians have been engaged in a number of scandals in their time in office and hence not fit for office. Muturi spoke at Menyenya Primary school grounds in Borabu Constituency Nyamira County when he attended the burial of Benson Nyasimi, brother to Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. He said since he has never been mentioned in any scandal in the country, he will be the best person to take the country forward. "We have heard Kenyans lament about poor leadership with those in leadership having been engaged in various scandals, yet they are in power. Let Kenyans consider a leader who has never been mentioned in any vice," Muturi said. Muturi urged Kenyans to be careful not to condemn leaders unnecessarily but instead, drop them during elections and opt for leaders who are capable of uniting and developing the country. "We know every leader has where he is allied to and the agendas he is driving at. If we do not feel comfortable with those leaders, let us justify the case during voting by dropping them and going for the better leaders whom we think can help us," Muturi noted. Muturi was with East Africa Legislative Assembly Ken Kalonzo, Nyamira senator Okong'o Omogeni, West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi, North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko, Kitutu Masaba's Shadrack Mose, Nakuru West Samuel Arama, Speaker Moffat Teya and former MP Joseph Kiangoi. Muturi has been moving around the country urging Kenyans to consider him for presidency where he will be running on a Democratic Party ticket. Muturi dismissed claims of joining any alliance in the general elections in August, saying he is as equal as any other presidential candidate in the country hence he will be looking forward to be voted for. "I am going for this seat and I am assuring you I will not join hands with anyone. If they come and tell you the same, please do not take it," he added. The local leaders in Nyamira supported Muturi's bid saying he is the better option for the country since he has demonstrated his leadership. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi however differed with his colleagues when he urged speaker Muturi to join hands with DP Ruto and his ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula to take Kenya to the next level. "We have seen a leader in you and we are sure you will be a good leader for our country. But I wish you would join us in the Kenya Kwanza coalition led by DP Ruto so that we can all drive the agendas of developing Kenya together," the DP ally told Muturi.