The body of a suspected drug dealer Fahmi Bakari Shekuwe was Sunday found at the Thika Mortuary, Kiambu County. This was almost two months after he went missing. Fahmi went missing on December 3, 2021, after leaving Mombasa for Thika for a business trip that turned fatal. HAKI Africa confirmed they identified the body on Sunday. Two weeks ago, the body of another Mombasa based suspected drug trafficker who had gone missing alongside Fahmi was found in a mortuary in Thika. The body of Masuo Bakari Tajiri was badly decomposed and had marks of torture and burns. Tajiri went missing on December 3 alongside Fahmi and one Mohammed Hussein who had accompanied him to Thika to purchase a matatu. Hussein is still missing with the families hoping for his safe return. The family of Fahmi also visited the Thika morgue and identified the body. Plans for his burial are underway. Tajiri, who was being sought by Interpol over trans-border drug trafficking in Tanzania, Congo and Kenya, was also facing a case of being found in possession of 24,466.4 grammes of heroin with a market value of Sh7. 4 million. On December 15, Bakari was acquitted by a Shanzu court in absentia due to lack of evidence, while his co-accused, Fatuma Sicobo, was sentenced to life imprisonment. Tajiri invested in public service transport and owned a fleet of matatus plying the busy Kisauni route. It is through his involvement in the matatu industry that he got acquainted with Fahmi and Mohamed, who operated a matatu on the route. After interacting with them for about three months, Tajiri approached Mohamed to manage his matatu business. Police records indicate he had served a prison term of seven years and had been arrested thrice for drug trafficking. Police say Fahmi and Mohamed are believed to have been lured into drug trafficking by Tajiri. Tajiri’s family says, while in Thika, their kin and Fahmi disagreed after realising he was on a drugs-related mission. It is then that Fahmi and Mohamed decided to travel back to Mombasa in a private vehicle, leaving Tajiri behind, but they all went missing. Cases of missing persons being found dead have been on the rise in the past months amid protests that most of them are suspects with cases in courts.