Youths from Mt Kenya have condemned a move by a section of people across the country to threaten others for not supporting their preferred candidate. In a press conference held in Ruaka on Friday, the youths raised concerns over the matter saying it threatens the peace and well-being of Kenyans. A youth leader Njuguna Njohi said democracy must be allowed to prevail as the country heads to 2022 polls. Njohi said the country is not ready to handle the consequences of political violence even as he appealed to authorities to beef up security operations. "People from our tribe have been targeted so much, which is very unfortunate and we would want the government to address the issue before we get to the August elections," Njohi said. He was among youths from 10 counties who were preparing the ground to welcome ODM leader Raila Odinga at Thika stadium tomorrow (Saturday). The youths were drawn from Laikipia, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Nairobi counties among others. The group, that is Azimio la Vijana from Mt Kenya, exuded confidence in Raila's presidential bid even as they pledged to support him. They expressed confidence in Raila saying his agenda is tailored towards addressing the needs of youths. A  youth leader and peace ambassador Steve Chege urged his counterparts to preach peace given that the general election is a few months away. "Our youths should stop being used by politicians to cause violence, mayhem and chaos in rallies so that they gain politically" he advised. Another leader Solomon Kuria thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for being considerate of the youths in his cabinet. "We have seen his cabinet has youthful CSs and Raila promised to have several slots for the young people as well. These are good visions. Whatever Uhuru will tell us is good for us, we shall support him and go for it," he said. They assured Raila's supporters that the Thursday meeting will be peaceful and appealed to them to turn out in large numbers. "Those coming and those preparing to come should come with a lot of confidence that the meeting will happen," he said.