The eagerly awaited Cricket Kenya elections will now take place on February 26 at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani. While making the announcement, the CK Normalisation Committee chairperson Hon. Lady Justice Joyce Aluoch said 10 entities have been approved by the Sports Registrar to take part in the much-awaited elections so far. “A total of 17 applications were received by the committee and we are still analyzing the other seven applicants. We are in constant communication with the registrar to address the issues that may have been raised,” she said. Aluoch said the registration process is a continuous process and encouraged other interested parties to apply. Those cleared by the Registrar are Kiambu Cricket Association, Homabay Cricket Association, Kajiado Cricket Association, Kirinyaga Cricket Association, Laikipia Cricket Association, Wanderers Cricket Club, Siaya County Cricket Association, Kwale County Cricket Association, Kilifi County Cricket Association, and Kisumu County Cricket Association. “Following these developments, Normalization Committee wishes to notify CK stakeholders and the public that; pursuant to Article 23.6 (a) of the CK Constitution (2021), a notice of election for office bearers is hereby issued. The elections will be held on Saturday, February 26, 2022, at Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani from 9.00 am,” Aluoch said in a statement. The committee also appointed Dr. Kenneth Wayne Mutuma to chair the Independent Elections Panel with effect from January 15 to March 1, 2022. “The Independent Elections Panel is mandated to conduct CK elections, ensure compliance with the Sports Act and other relevant laws, CK Constitution (2021), and the CK Electoral Code in ensuring a free and fair election,” she added. Aluoch explained that her committee had visited various counties across the country to ascertain the ongoing cricket activities in respective counties as well as support and facilitate the interested individuals to register. The facilitation, she added, included; distribution of application forms, sensitization on the requirements of registration as well as linking them to the Registrar of Sports. The committee was appointed on March 16, 2021, by the Sports Cabinet Secretary Ambassador (Dr.) Amina Mohamed to lead an all-inclusive process that would see the return of normalcy in cricket. The mandate of the committee was to coordinate the finalisation of the Draft Constitution and ensure its validation in line with the requirements of the Sports Act 2013 and the International Cricket Council (ICC) statutes. Aluoch added that since its inauguration, the committee has achieved key milestones as stipulated in its mandate.