Vihiga Queens' chief executive officer Mike Senelwa says although the team's priority is to give the youth a platform to shine, they may be forced to sign experienced players if the need arises. The three-time national champions have lost the star duo of Lilian Awuor and Jentrix Shikangwa in a span of one week. Both shone at the Cecafa Club Champions League qualifiers as Queens bagged the title. Whereas goalkeeper Awuor joined Soyaux Women's Football Club in the French top division, Shikangwa inked a deal with Turkish giants Fatih Karagumruk. "We are keen on players rising up the ranks while recruitment remains an option. We aren't worried but want to replace the departures with fresh talent, "Senelwa said. "For recruitment, we will be guided by the recommendations of the scouting department but the most important thing is to have faith in the young players. Awour and Shikangwa are role models despite their age. They have left their mark in the hearts of the upcoming players." "It is good to step up. Now, the competition is much higher than before," said Senelwa. Following Awuor's departure, 19-year old Sophy Akinyi has been elevated to fill her shoes. Senelwa, however, dismissed talk of Tereza Engesha's looming exit. Senelwa says Vihiga's priority is to regain the Women's Premier League title they lost to Thika Queens last season. "We want to ensure the domestic title is home because that is the automatic ticket for the regional competition. Vihiga are the best in East Africa and I can't see the standards dropping anytime soon because everybody is committed to the cause," said Senelwa. "Our aim is to become a world force in exporting players to top leagues overseas. The brand is attractive because we have built alluring players. Vihiga is a stepping stone and going abroad offers the players the highest platform to hone their skills," he added. Meanwhile, the honcho sought to reassure supporters that performances won't drop amidst player exit. "We are not going to let you (fans) down. We are committed to remaining up there. We will update you on any developments. Above all, it's the work of God and the timing could be perfect."   