Dr Patrick Amoth has announced that World Health Organization boss Tedros Adhanon has been nominated to run for another five years. Amoth, Kenya’s acting director-general for health and the WHO board chairman, led the screening of Dr Tedros for the position early this week. Tedros was the only candidate nominated for the position. The 194 WHO members will procedurally vote for Tedros re-election in May. Kenya is one of the three African countries that nominated Tedros, despite stiff opposition from Ethiopia, which accused him of supporting the Tigray rebels. “It is my government’s deep belief that Dr Tedros, the current Director-General of the WHO, is ideally placed to continue in the role,” CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a nomination letter sent to Dr Amoth. Dr Tedros is a former Ethiopian minister of health and foreign affairs. “I am actually lost for words,” the visibly moved WHO chief said after nearly all of the board’s 34 members voted for him this week. In his earlier statement asking the board to approve his candidature, Dr Tedros pointed to the vaccine distribution programme that has sent Covid-19 jabs to developing countries such as Kenya. “Partnership has been core to my work at WHO. I have supported the establishment of a wide range of new collaborations with multilateral organisations, including the SDG3 Global Action Plan, the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, and civil society and private sector networks representing numerous areas of public health,” he said. Dr Tedros won the election for director-general in 2017, beating five other candidates, becoming the first African to lead the WHO since its establishment in 1948. Kenya is also supporting a process to create a global treaty led by the WHO to fight pandemics. In December, the World Health Assembly, where Kenya sits, agreed to kickstart a global process to draft and negotiate a convention, agreement or other international instruments under the Constitution of the WHO to strengthen pandemic prevention, preparedness and response. “The Covid-19 pandemic has shone a light on the many flaws in the global system to protect people from pandemics: the most vulnerable people going without vaccines; health workers without needed equipment to perform their life-saving work; and ‘me-first’ approaches that stymie the global solidarity needed to deal with a global threat,” Dr Tedros said in December. Article 19 of the WHO Constitution provides the World Health Assembly with the authority to adopt conventions or agreements on any matter within WHO’s competence. The sole instrument established under Article 19 to date is the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which has made a significant and rapid contribution to protecting people from tobacco since its entry into force in 2005.