Eldas MP Adan Keynan has urged Northern Kenya leaders and residents to co-exist peacefully as part of their new year’s resolutions. Keynan said inter-clan clashes caused by border disputes should be a thing of the past. The legislator spoke on Saturday in Jigjiga location, Eldas subcounty during the inauguration, thanksgiving and coronation ceremony of chief Hussein Issack Muhumed of Jigjiga location. The insecurity in Garissa, Wajir, Isiolo and Marsabit has gone on for decades without an end. They are due to resource-based conflicts and border disputes. They have resulted in the loss of lives, displacement and destruction of property. Two weeks ago, 11 people died following border disputes pitting nomads in Basuke along the Wajir-Marsabit border. Over 3000  families from both sides were displaced. A security meeting had to be convened in Basir, Eldas constituency to stop more bloodshed and displacements after their villages were deserted and left at the mercy of bandits Keynan said the clashes have delayed development in a region still faced with a lot of challenges. “We are here celebrating the coronation of a new chief, I hope and pray that we start a new lease of life as the year starts. Let us ensure we remain our brother’s keeper,” he said. “I commit to working with my fellow leaders for peace to prevail. We will remain steadfast and engage our brothers and sisters from neighbouring counties to address some of these challenges when they arise.” Keynan who is also the Jubilee coalition joint parliamentary group secretary emphasised the need to arrest criminals involved in the clashes. He said the new administrative unit will assist residents as part of a centrepiece strategy to improve and bring key social sector services closer to people. Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh said starting clashes was easy but ending them was difficult. He urged communities that have a history of clan clashes to solve challenges arising from border or conflicts over resources peacefully. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim urged communities to learn to share the little resources available at their disposal. Deputy county commissioner Vincent Lomachar said the government will remain steadfast in enhancing peace between communities. He warned of stern action to clan militias whom he said were the genesis of the border clashes witnessed between counties. Edited by Kiilu Damaris