Muhoroni Constituency Development Fund has disbursed Sh15 million for bursaries to university and college students. MP Onyango Koyoo said the money will benefit 1,510 students drawn from the five wards in the constituency. Of the beneficiaries, he said 612 are from colleges, with 898 in various universities. He spoke while presiding over the disbursement of cheques to students at Pawteng Primary School at Masogo/Nyangoma ward. Koyoo, who was accompanied by CDF chairman Bernard Del, said beneficiaries have been carefully selected from the many applications. Muhoroni constituency manager Sospeter Ngere, Kisumu county Knut chairman Fred Kibwana and Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association Muhoroni branch chairman George Ombok were present. Koyoo said 102 students from Miwani who are in colleges received bursaries alongside 135 who are in universities. A total of 119 college students from Muhoroni/Koru ward benefited together with 199 who are in universities. In Chemelil ward, 161 and 229 students in colleges and universities respectively benefited. The MP urged the beneficiaries to work hard and excel in their studies. Koyoo said he is committed to ensuring all students, regardless of their background, access education. He added that students taking engineering, medicine and architecture courses are fully sponsored to encourage more to enrol for the courses. The legislator said that education remains his priority and hopes it will be a good legacy when he retires from active politics. He has been lauded by education stakeholders, including Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha and Sports CS Amina Mohammed for his bursary model. “I want to ensure that Muhoroni surpasses other constituencies in terms of professionals when I retire from politics,” he said. He said his office has been tracking the performance of the students under the programme. Koyoo said he will continue paying school fees to needy students. “The statistics in the CDF office indicate that most of the sponsored students have joined universities and are undertaking various courses." The fund is disbursed in five categories—national schools, special-course universities, vulnerable students, college and university and other secondary schools. Currently, a total of 259 students in national schools are fully sponsored at Sh12 million. In universities, 123 students who are taking medicine, architecture, law and engineering are sponsored to a tune of Sh5 million. Koyoo, who is serving his second term, asked residents to vote for him to complete his development agenda. Ombok lauded Koyoo and his CDF team for being steadfast in supporting education. They praised his bursary model, terming it excellent which should be adopted by other constituencies. Kibwana also commended Koyoo for his commitment in sponsoring students and improving education standards in schools within Muhoroni. Currently, he said CDF is constructing 23 classrooms in various schools in Muhoroni. (edited by Amol Awuor)