About 10,000 resident of Kwa Bulo in Nyali on Sunday vowed to boycott the August 9 General Election should they be forced to vacate the land they have called home for decades. The residents, who occupy 86.6 acres of disputed land which has 1,451 houses, received letters from a private firm claiming ownership of the land, asking them to either pay at least Sh1 million or leave. Kwa Bulo Squatters chairman Omar Tsori on Sunday said trouble started in 2001 when the first agency claimed ownership. However, the agency was under debt and purportedly sold the land to a private firm that is said to have paid an initial Sh8 million. The land was sold at Sh45 million, according to Tsori. “The first demolition of our houses was done in 2005. We have been living with demolition threats ever since,” he said. “We have engaged both the county and national government for an amicable solution but nothing is forthcoming. We will not participate in the elections if this issue is not solved.” He said the offer they have been given is too much for the squatters and they cannot afford it. The most expensive piece of land in the area goes for Sh10.5 million while the cheapest goes for Sh1 million, according to letters of offer from the private firm. Former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, who tried to resolve the matter, said the government is aware of the dispute. He said in 2016, there was an agreement between the national government, county government, the private firm and the squatters, that the land be subdivided, processed and title deeds be issued to those who occupy the land. “After that, President Uhuru Kenyatta came here and directed the land be subdivided and those who live on it be issued with title deeds,” Awiti, who is eying the Mombasa governor seat said. Governor Hassan Joho had said then that the county government would pay whatever fees is needed on behalf of the residents. “It is now surprising that nothing has been done. All promises seem like they were empty. The county betrayed its people,” Awiti said. The county on Monday said it will get back to the Star after verifying the facts. Awiti said issues at Kwa Bulo always come up during the electioneering period. “This is just a plan by tycoons to take this land in a clever way,” the former MP said. Former Speaker Thaddeus Rajwayi said as leaders, they will ensure the families are not evicted. “So long as we are still alive, we will fight until you people are at peace,” Rajwayi told the residents.   -Edited by SKanyara