Sports federations and umbrella bodies have unanimously agreed to have at least two women officials accompany all women’s teams to all competitions. The federations said no women’s teams will leave the country for any competition or participate in any internal championships without being in the company of the two officials, a doctor and a welfare official. In the resolutions read by PS for the sports department Joe Okudo, the federations and all sports associations are expected to meet the two-third gender rule in their managerial positions. “They endeavor is to equal the number of female to male officials so as to have it at 50-50 in future,” he said. The deliberations came after three days of intense discussion by the sports players during the Agnes Tirop Conference in Diani, Kwale County. Okudo said all registered federations must adhere to the 2010 Constitution and are also expected to follow to the letter all laws and policies set by the Ministry of Sports. The federations will further work towards implementing the set policies and structures in mitigating gender-based violence among the athletes. Okudo said this could be achieved if federations establish legal frameworks and norms that would promote and sustain the protection of athletes in Kenya. The Conference further called for the prioritisation of athletes’ mental health. Federations and sports organisations are expected to give psychological support to athletes and their officials whenever in need. Okudo said the three-day conference revealed the root cause of GBV among the female athletes is the gender inequalities and unequal distribution of powers leaving individuals especially women and girls vulnerable and at the mercies of their tormentors. In mitigating the inequalities, sports organisations have been urged to provide leadership capacity training to more women to prepare them for more governance and leadership roles. The ministry of sports and all sports organisation are expected to ensure both women and men team receive equal resources. The sports players were also urged to embrace technology to rid the technology inequality bridge which has left most female athletes “We call all the sports organization to promote home grown solutions which are sustainable in tackling GBV cases involving either an athlete or an official,” he said. The delegates maintained its stand on the speedy investigations and prosecution of all persons linked to gender-based violence against athletes.