National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has scoffed at ODM leader Raila Odinga over his recent remarks regarding the design of the Thika superhighway. Speaking on Tuesday in Gatundu South, Kiambu county, Muturi told off Raila accusing him of lying. “There are leaders who only give history saying 'mimi ndo nilichora Thika highway', so what? I can challenge you, if you go to the ministry, you will not find his signature. Stop lying to us and tell the people what you will do,” Muturi said. The speaker’s remarks follow Raila's statement in Thika stadium on Saturday where he said he was the brains behind the Thika superhighway. The 50-kilometre road was constructed during his era in the grand coalition government that he formed with former president Mwai Kibaki. "They would fight me for demolishing houses to pave way for construction of the superhighway which is still there to date. I have delivered for this nation and I will do even more when I become president," Raila said. Muturi asked Kenyans to be careful with the type of leaders they choose to elect. He urged them to avoid those with reckless utterances that can damage the unity of the country. “Madoadoa' word was even at the Hague. Avoid leaders who are using bad language and spreading hate speech while selling their manifesto.” He added that: “Recent incitement like the 'Madoadoa' remarks in Uasin Gishu will take us back to our tribal inclination. We agreed we forgive each other but not forget.” The speaker maintained he is still in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in the forthcoming general elections slated for August 9. He appeared to castigate deputy president William Ruto for labelling other parties as tribal. “I'm still in the race with a party that isn’t tribal. Democratic party accommodates everyone. There are rumours that the party is tribal. The same party gave us president Kibaki. The same president who appointed you as minister for Agriculture so stop saying it's tribal.” Muturi added that the  Mount Kenya region has enough numbers to influence the 2022 polls saying that's why all leaders want a portion of their votes. “If we're not careful we may end up on our own. I urge residents from the mountain not to allow our leaders to divide us.” -Edited by B. Marita