The Ministry of Mining has warned residents of the Nakuru North region, consisting of three sub-counties against drilling boreholes due to the presence of shallow pockets of inflammable and toxic gasses. Senior Superintendent Geophysicist in the Ministry, Zacharia Hoidi said the pockets of inflammable toxic gasses developed over time from shallow buried layers of decomposed animals and plants. The three sub-counties of Bahati, Subukia, and Rongai lie on the northern side of the world's largest caldera, the Menengai Crater, a volcanic formation where geothermal projects are being undertaken by the Geothermal Development Company. In December 2019, there was a scare at the Patel Coffee Estates farm in Solai area of Subukia when a well that was being drilled for water produced fire instead. The farm management had initially drilled 250metres below the ground but could not find water which compelled it to go deeper at 350metres when it produced hot gas followed by fire and then hot water. This made it a surprisingly possible shallow gas find compared with most discoveries that lie deep in the earth’s crust and which require drilling to depths of about 3,000 meters. Hoidi is leading a joint team of geoscientists that started mapping the Solai block in November last year and warned that natural gas leaks that occur in the region when the earth’s crust is drilled pose a serious health hazard. He added that in a worst-case scenario, the gas leaks could cause fire disasters. Apart from gas leaks, the three sub-counties are among regions that experienced black in July 2020 a phenomenon that is still being researched by top scientists in the country Hoidi said the team of Geo-chemists, Geophysicists, Petroleum Engineers, and Geologists is undertaking Geological mapping and Geophysical measurements on the Solai Block to identify structures that could be having natural gas deposits. "The team has conducted a detailed analysis of the isotopic characteristics of the gas collected from Patel Coffee Estate well and more investigations are being done to determine the actual source," he said. He said the team was surveying a small location measuring 25 by 32 kilometers which is an initial area of focus that will guide further developments. Hoidi said the team was also sampling rock and water samples from the Patel Coffee Estate borehole and adjoining areas. "The data collected will also help determine safe locations to build roads, homes, schools, offices, and other infrastructure within the quoted sub-counties," said the Geophysicist. On commercial viability of the gas within the Solai block, he said the team did not have anything substantial because mapping and quantification were still underway.