Kenya on Sunday received over 149 travellers from Bulgaria. The tourists were on board a charter flight that landed at the Moi International airport Mombasa at 9am. Charter flights from the European market have continued to play a key role in the recovery of Kenya’s tourism industry which has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. In March of 2021, Kenya received the first-ever Romanian charter carrying 200 visitors. In April of the same year, it received another charter flight from Ukraine, Kyiv, which had on board 189 visitors. The two charters have so far made 49 rotations to the destination giving a boost to the sector, especially at the Coast. And on Sunday, while receiving the charter flight, Kenya Tourism Board Director of Marketing Fred Okeyo said that charter flights had become a good avenue for the destination to link with the international markets, especially during the period when travel was limited. “The charter flights we have been receiving signal the growing confidence in Kenya’s preparedness against Covid-19. It also indicates that travellers want to come to Magical Kenya to experience our diversity in offering and hospitality," Okeyo said. "I thank the marketers and travel agents who have been working tirelessly to bring visitors to Kenya. The government will continue to offer support as we work together towards the full recovery and growth of the sector." The flight, European Air chartered by Abax Bulgaria limited, departed from Sofia Bulgaria and landed in Mombasa at 9:00 am with over 149 travellers on board who included 35 travel agents from Bulgaria. Okeyo said the visitors received today are testament to the advancements Kenya is making in markets that are not deemed traditional source markets for Kenya’s tourism. "Our tourism products including safari and beach resonate well with the needs of consumers from the emerging markets of Eastern Europe. "We must explore all the available markets and tap into them, and this can only be done through innovation and value addition,” Okeyo added. “Today, we welcome this Bulgarian charter which adds to the number of flights that the Coast has received in the last year. We shall continue to market Kenya to the world to ensure that we tap into all available markets. That said, this flight is a signal of this growth and confidence in Magical Kenya as a preferred destination globally," he said. The Bulgarian market presents an opportunity to push beach, wildlife and experiential products that resonate well with the consumers from the country and the region. The arrival numbers from Bulgaria have been incremental over the last few years, with Kenya receiving 1,272 visitors in 2019, 277 visitors in 2020 and some 362 visitors in 2021. There is currently a great opportunity to grow tourism numbers through charters, especially due to the challenging environment brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. The visitors will experience attractions within the Kenya Coast and safari at the Tsavo East National Park, Taita Hills and Amboseli and Diani.