A Nairobi court has acquitted five businessmen charged with maliciously damaging Sh20 million property. The five are politician George Jonathan Maara, John Peter Kamau, James Gichere Mburu, John Maina Waithera and Stephen Muiruri. They had been taken to court by Isaac Maina Wandere in a prime land dispute. They were alleged to have damaged a perimeter wall, an electrified fence and four gates. The damage allegedly occurred at occurred at Wonderjoy Party World Limited Ridgeways in Nairobi in March 2016. Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku on Thursday ruled the prosecution failed to provide enough proof that the destruction or damage was caused by the accused and prove the destruction was willful and unlawful. “Further there is neither nil evidence the 1st accused uttered any threatening words nor fired his pistol to sustain the offence of threatening to kill," Mutuku ruled. The court found the valuation report of the damaged property was excessively exaggerated. It was not a court-sanctioned valuation as submitted by defense counsel. The five were represented by Lawyer Mwenda Njagi and Kiraithe Wandugi. In their submissions, they said for the prosecution to establish a case to answer against the accused, it must prove the ownership of the property and whether the property was destroyed or damaged. “It is our humble submission that for an offence of malicious damage to stand, the complainant must be the registered owner of the property alleged to be destroyed,” Njagi argued. The accused had submitted the prosecution did not establish the complaint is the registered owner of the suit property alleged to have been destroyed by the accused persons. Neither did they establish the ownership of the damaged goods, they said. “There were no receipts to show the complainant had purchased or owned the fence alleged to have been destroyed,” they added. Njagi had submitted that the complainant’s alleged entitlement to the suit property was on the basis of Temporary Occupation License of 25 years. He said it had not been registered with the Registrar of Documents  to have the force of law. They added the prosecution did not present the alleged tools of destruction. They said the motor vehicle alleged to have pulled down the fence was not presented to the court. Other tools of crime, pangas, were not present to the court. “These crucial materials of evidence were not presented because they did not exist in the first place. There was no destruction of the alleged wall,” Njagi added. The chargesheet said the five had on March 13, 2016, at Wonderjoy Party World Limited Ridgeways in Nairobi willfully and unlawfully damaged the perimeter wall, live fence and four steel gates, all valued at Sh20 million, property of  Wandere. Maara had been charged in another count with the offence of misuse of firearms, contrary to Section 34(1) of the Firearms Act, 2002. The prosecution had alleged that on similar dates and places, being a licensed firearm holder, he had used his firearm, a CEZKA Pistol serial No. B064351 and threatened to shoot Rimon Lientikei and Richard Mutisya. They were guarding the premises. During the hearing, former DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro said he did not influence the arrest of George Jonathan Maara and Peter John Kamau Ruhangi over a property dispute in Kiambu county. An officer investigating malicious damage to the Sh20 million property belonging to Isaac Maina said all suspects were charged after clearance by the public prosecutor. (Edited by V. Graham)