Africa Zone 3 superheavyweight champion, Elly Ajowi, says he plans to call time on his career at the end of the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. The 38-year-old National Police Service corporal becomes the second Hit Squad member to express a desire to quit the ring after the Games following a similar sentiment shared by fellow pugilist and captain Nick Okoth earlier in the year. “I intend to retire immediately after the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in July. I believe I have already achieved quite a lot and it's a high time I created some room in the ring for budding boxers,” he said. Ajowi, whose medal hunt at the 2020 Tokyo Games ended in heartbreak after he crashed to Cuba’s Julio Cesar La Cruz on points at the preliminary stage, says he hopes to strut to the winner's podium in Birmingham as he eyes one last vintage performance to end his career on a high. “I look to defend my title at the next Africa Zone 3  Championships in Tanzania. A good performance there will lay the ground for my medal hunt at the Africa Boxing Championships in Cameroon as well as the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in July,” said Ajowi. The soft-spoken burly pugilist who clinched both editions of the inaugural President Jamal Cup in Nairobi and Kisumu respectively says he hopes to mentor the youth of Dandora where his humble beginnings can be traced. “I'd like to help develop youths from Dandora where my career began upon retirement,” said Ajowi. “I'm training my sights on taking up a coaching role once I hang up my gloves. I'm yet to train as a coach but that is part of my immediate plans. I didn't get an opportunity to join the group that trained for AIBA 1 certification course in Nairobi.” “However, BFK has plans to roll out a follow-up program in the near future and I hope to take part in it,” added Ajowi. Ajowi reckons the return of normality after a long spell occasioned by the ravenous Covid-19 pandemic will greatly improve the fortunes of the national team ahead of major international events. Local boxing governing body, BFK, last week unveiled an action-packed 2022 calendar of events that will see local pugilists embroiled in fierce battles for a wide array of honours. “We are fortunate enough to have different events in the Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) calendar. Participating in the events will sharpen us more ahead of the forthcoming international contests,” said Ajowi.  