@ppcheti Learning has been disrupted in Lamu following the killing of seven people by suspected al Shabab militants on Sunday and Monday nights. Six people were killed in Widhu, Lamu West, on Sunday night while one was killed on Monday night in Bobo-Sunkia village in Hindi, Lamu West. The situation has seen a mass exodus of residents from affected and neighbouring villages as residents fear more attacks. Schools in these areas have witnessed a lack or low turnout of pupils as parents keep their children at home owing to the building tension and fear. Schools in Widhu including the Juhudi and Salama primary schools recorded nil attendance on Monday. On Tuesday, however, just about 25 pupils out of the entire 300 plus student population turned up at both schools. School heads and teachers have called on the state to ensure security in schools for both learners and teachers so that learning can proceed smoothly. A teacher in one of the schools said they are equally worried about their own safety but have to report to school to boost the morale of the fearful learners and parents who have refused to allow their children out of the homes. “We understand the parents who won’t let their kids come to school because we are also worried about our own safety. We hope the government will deploy security officers to our schools,” a teacher who refused to be named said. The situation was similar in Hindi, Lamu West, following the killing of 62-year-old John Gichoya on Monday night. At least three houses were torched in the village before security officers responded to distress calls and thwarted the planned attacks by the militants. At Bobo Primary School, the turnout was extremely low with the palpable tension visible on the faces of pupils who could be seen peering out of their class windows as if anticipating the worst. Other schools that have witnessed a high number of absenteeism among learners are Majembeni Holy Angels, Mikinduni, and Kangaja Primary in Lamu West. Moses Kalama, a parent at Mikinduni primary, said as parents they can not ignore the obvious signs of insecurity in their areas and as such cannot release their children until security is guaranteed. “Its obvious there is a problem with insecurity. In the past we have seen militants target schools and burn them down. We obviously anticipate the same here and that’s why we are keeping our kids at home in the meantime,” Kalama said. Some learners have fled together with their parents to neighbouring Mpeketoni and Kibaoni. On Tuesday morning, Lamu West deputy county commissioner Charles Kitheka convened an emergency meeting with Hindi residents following the killing in Bobo-Sunkia village. He assured the residents of security. “Let there be calm because the security agencies here are on top of matters to ensure people together with their property are well protected,” Kitheka said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)