Chief Justice Martha Koome has said judges and magistrates engaged in corruption and malpractice will carry their own cross and wont be shielded by the Judicial Service Commission. She said Friday that, though the commission will work to guard the independence of the judges in making their decisions and judgments on cases before them, it will not protect any judicial officer who compromises their integrity and violate their oath of office. “While the commission will protect the institutional independence of the Judiciary and the decisional autonomy of judges and judicial officers, corruption, unethical conduct, impunity, and failure to perform duties vested in any judge or judicial officer will not be tolerated,” the CJ said. Koome’s tough talk came as the commission was listening to the petition against High Court judge Said Chitembwe in which he is accused of making judgments not based on the law. She said that decision by judges and magistrates must strictly be based on the law and evidence adduced by litigants and not other extraneous factors. "This means that judicial decisions should be motivated by only the law and evidence before the court. Put differently, we must strive to live up to our oath of office,” she said. The CJ said she was committed to fostering judicial hygiene where only ethical, competent and law abiding people find their way to serve in the third arm of the government. “I want to reiterate [that] fostering integrity remains a key cog to our institution-building efforts at the Judiciary. Thus, we expect all members of the Judiciary family to embrace “judicial hygiene”,” he said. Koome spoke at a city hotel as she presided over the launch of the commission’s Strategic Plan 2022-26 as well as the revised Judicial Service Code of Conduct and Ethics Regulations, 2020. The revised Code of Conduct and Ethics outlines the values and standards of conduct to guide judicial officers and judges on how to behave in carrying out the mandate. With the new rules, Koome said, she expects “a fundamental change in mindset and attitudes from all of us who have chosen to work in the Judiciary." “Therefore, we must all strive to be honest in our work and decent in our engagements with colleagues and litigants. We must consciously avoid placing ourselves in situations that bring disrepute to the institution of the Judiciary." She said that all the complaints lodged before the commission will receive a fair and expeditious attention to enable those accused to clear their names move on with their lives. “Pending disciplinary complaints will be expeditiously processed to enable those implicated in alleged cases of alleged misconduct to clear their names,” she said. “ The commission will endeavour to move decisively to resolve any complaints brought to its attention regarding any unethical conduct.” She said the new approach of heightened ethical standard in the Judiciary is aimed at shoring up public trust and confidence in the Judiciary. She asked ordinary Kenyans to take up the role of “monitoring the actions of those serving in the Judiciary and their compliance with the revised Code of Conduct and Ethics.” The strategic plan entails the various development milestones the Judiciary wants to attain in the four-year period and it is costed at Sh13 billion. (edited by Amol Awuor)