All Athletics Kenya regions and affiliates will be required to submit the list of athletes to represent them at the national cross country championships by January 17. AK vice-president and director of competitions, Paul Mutwii, said this will enable the federation to compile the final list of competitors for the January 22 event set for Kapseret in Eldoret. "The different regions are now having competitions to select athletes who will represent them at the national championship. "There are some who will start this week whereas others, due to unforeseen circumstances, will stretch to January 15. "It is important for all regional officials to thereafter submit the names of their athletes by Monday, January 17,"  Mutwii said. Some of the regional cross country events penciled for the next fortnight include trials for the disciplined forces, regionals as well as universities. Mutwii said the national event, which will be a dry run for the World Cross Country Tour, will go a long way in unearthing any mishaps that may occur on February 12. "We are interested in identifying challenges the route will offer and ascertain whether it is perfect for the world tour. We will also be looking at the organizational aspects, including the fans' area, start and finish line as well as where the dignitaries will be seated. There will also be entertainers and thus we need to identify where they will be situated," he said. He was speaking from Eldoret, where he is among those preparing for the Tuesday media launch of the World Cross Country Tour, which has since been renamed the Agnes Tirop  World Cross Country Gold Tour. The race was renamed so to celebrate the 2015 world cross country champion Tirop who was in October last year found murdered at her home in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet. Her win at the championship in Guiyang, China made her the second-youngest to ever clinch the title in the history of the competition. "We are currently in Eldoret for the launch of the Tour on Tuesday. The route is already designed and we would like it to remain green. Unfortunately, it is the dry season in Eldoret and so we are looking for water bowsers to irrigate the route so it remains wet," he said.