Trans Nzoia Falcons swift forward Violet Wanyonyi is set to start for the first time this season when they face Vihiga Queens at Mumias Sports Complex today. Wanyonyi is back at Falcons after her failed move to Vihiga,  where she played on loan last season. She is expected to make an appearance in Falcons' third match as the Justine Okiring tutored side aim to scalp the former champions. The Falcons, who are second on the log with six points from two matches, lost 3-2 and 2-1 against the 2019 champions last season. However, Okiring who was appointed this season, believes his charges can trouble their well-drilled opponents and get a good result. "Wanyonyi's return is a big boost for us. The transfer did not materialize and we are happy to retain her services because she offers options," Okiring, the former national team coach, remarked. "She is very positive about the decision. We want to work on a system that suits her whether she starts or comes off the bench. We need three points to remain top contenders and I expect a tough match. Whatever happened last season is history and with a fully-fit squad, expect fireworks." Vihiga, who are third, will rely on Jentrix Shikangwa and Tereza Engesha for goals while Christine Nafula and Joan Nabirye will cushion the midfield with Lilian Awuor guarding the goal. Kisumu All-Starlets will be chasing their first points of the season against winless newbies Kangemi Ladies at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Kisumu are last in the 12-team standings while Kangemi are 10th  by virtue of goal difference. Giant killers Bunyore Starlets face a tricky Nakuru Queens side at Mumboha grounds with both teams having three points. Bunyore edged out defending champions Thika Queens 2-1 in their last encounter and will need to replicate their performance to guarantee their safety in the top tier. Zetech Sparks hope to build on their 6-2 win against Kisumu when they square it out with Kayole Starlets. On Wednesday, the Kiambu derby takes centre stage as pacesetters Gaspo Women battle Thika. Gaspo are yet to concede a goal but have scored 11 in two matches. Bertha Omita is odds on favourite to score for Gaspo after finding the back of the net on four occasions. Wadadia hope to bounce back to winning ways against Ulinzi at Mumias. Both sides lost their previous ties to rank fourth and fifth respectively. Wadadia shipped out three goals in their 3-0 loss to Nakuru while a double from Engesha allowed Vihiga to return to Western with maximum points.