Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip wants the government to issue a shoot to kill order for all bandits and suspected Al-Shabaab militants who will be arrested in connection with the recent attacks. According to Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia, 10 people have since been arrested in a spate of attacks that have so far left 15 people including four GSU officers killed. The 10 are set to be charged for terrorism among other charges on January 24 this year. The senator however feels such individuals should be treated with the same harshness and brutality that they inflict on innocent civilians by simply being shot dead. Speaking last Friday, Loitiptip said it would be daunting to take such criminals through the legal process that includes prosecution and sentencing as that denies the victims justice. He said the Lamu situation can only be effectively addressed through an immediate issuance of the shoot to kill order from the government. “As a leader, I appreciate the security operation the government has going on here. I however feel the best way to deal with the situation is to have such criminal elements shot on sight,” he said. The senator’s sentiments have been echoed by locals who feel the attackers should be treated in the same brutal manner they have treated the people of Lamu. Geoffrey Somo of Witho village where six people were killed by suspected militants on January 2 this year said such people should simply be killed on sight. “Let us not burden our forces with the job of having to capture these people and then have them prosecuted. These people burned our people alive and slaughtered others. They deserve to be treated that exact same way or worse,” said Somo. While weighing on the matter, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia the government was not leaving any stone untouched to ensure the security of Lamu is restored. “We are dealing with all criminal elements in accordance with the law. Our objective is to ensure peace and tranquillity is restored,” said Macharia. The recent attacks have also left over 10 houses torched by the assailants in Widho, Juhudi, Ukumbi, Marafa, Mashogoni, Githurai, and Bobo-Sunkia villages in both Mpeketoni and Hindi, Lamu West.