ANC continues to bleed leaders as former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende ditches Musalia Mudavadi, a day after the party leader joined forces with Deputy President William Ruto. Marende announced on Monday he was joining Democratic Action Party –Kenya after Mudavadi launched his presidential bid and said he will team up with Ruto’s UDA. The former Speaker said he would be contesting for governor in Vihiga, which is Mudavadi’s backyard, on a DAP-K ticket. Receiving him at his new home was DAP-K deputy party leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula, who ditched ANC on Saturday. Also present were former Mudavadi allies Matungu MP Peter Nabulindo and his Teso North counterpart Oku Kaunya. Others were Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, DAP-K party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi, secretary general Eseli Simiyu and senators Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia) and Kennedy Mong’are (Nyamira). Marende said the move by Mudavadi was a betrayal of the Kenyan people and the Luhya community in particular. “You cannot make this nation a progressive country when you associate with bad people. It is a false step and Mudavadi acted in a manner similar to a suicide bomber,” he added. Wamalwa said Sunday, the day Mudavadi made the announcement of working with Ruto, was a terrible moment for Kenyans and the Mulembe Nation. “A lot of expectations have been put on our firstborn son. They are indeed birds of a feather since they have all been mentioned in scandals whether it is the Goldenberg, Arror and Kimwarer or Tokyo embassy scam,” he said. Speaking to the Star earlier, Savula said they will pitch tent in Western for two weeks to counter the progress made by ANC in the recent past. Savula said leaders of the outfit will hold a series of rallies in the region starting next week to 'erase' the support Mudavadi has enjoyed in the area. “We will be in Western to make sure Mudavadi pays for auctioning the Mulembe Nation. We will take away all the support he had from the people of Western Kenya,” he said. Savula said the move by Mudavadi was inconsequential and would not add any value to the ANC party leader's political career. “Mudavadi has just written his political obituary. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula has also written his political obituary by following Mudavadi to Ruto's camp,” he added. At a press conference on Monday morning, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli tore into Mudavadi over his comments on the status of the labour movement in the country. Atwoli said Mudavadi has no moral authority to question his leadership of the labour movement, saying he betrayed workers while he was Finance minister in 1994. “Mudavadi, in 1994 while minister for finance, sneaked in the redundancy clause into the Finance Bill of 1994 which allowed employers to declare redundancy without consulting workers. So how will he empower workers if he becomes president?” he posed. In a speech outlining why he wants to be the next president, Mudavadi said he will transform the labour movement to ensure it regains a sense of purpose and respectability as the link between employers and employees. “Cotu will not be a clownish cowboy club that labours for a few individuals. Under my watch, the labour movement is going to regain its sense of purpose and respectability as the middle house between employers and their employees” Atwoli further said Mudavadi did not talk about how he would improve the welfare of workers if he becomes president. He said Mudavadi talked about improving the economy but failed short of elaborating how he would go about it. “How does money jump into the pockets of Kenyans when there are no elaborate plans of creating employment,” he posed. Atwoli has consistently been supporting Mudavadi’s political rival ODM leader Raila Odinga who is gunning for the top seat on the Azimio La Umoja movement.