ANC's National Delegates Congress is expected to ratify changes to the constitution which gives party leader a nod to go for presidency and nothing else. The Amani National Congress NDC is set for January 23. If the changes by the top decision making organ of the party, are ratified, Mudavadi may not contest for any other position as long as he is party leader. ANC unveiled a new constitution on August 14, 2020 with changes that make party leader the automatic presidential candidate. The NDC comes as speculation builds that the ANC leader could be crafting a deal with Deputy President William Ruto’s side. The NDC, which will be held at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, will mark the final ratification of the decision that made Mudavadi the presidential candidate in the August 9 poll. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, the ANC boss maintained that he will go all the way to the ballot and warned his competitors against blackmailing his move to ascend to the top job. “There are people whose only goal is to get into State House come August this year. They don’t have the plight of Wanjiku at heart. They are self-centred and angry when they see others making strategic moves towards the same course,” Mudavadi said. He dismissed claims that he is considering joining Ruto saying he will hit the campaign trail once the NDC ratifies the Amani Council’s decision that gives him power to now seek the presidency. “We have just come into a new year. The real year of elections. Things will shape up slowly and steadily. Soon we will embark on a sprint that nobody has ever witnessed before. "But at this point and time I can confirm, the ANC party gave me the mandate to vie for the presidency. The National Delegates Conference will just be ratifying this decision,” he added. The party leader also dismissed claims that he is heading to the Azimio la Umoja camp saying that together with his One Kenya Alliance partners, they are chatting a way that will be embraced by many Kenyans. “Let people not put political ventilators on others. I want Kenyans to have an open mind. We should now wake up to the fact that your enemy is not necessarily my enemy and your supporter is not necessarily my supporter,” he said. Late last year, Mudavadi who will be trying his luck at the presidency after unsuccessfully emerging third in 2013, sounded a warning to those who think he will be swayed in his quest to becoming the fifth president. He spoke while presiding over the 42nd Vihiga Cultural Festival on December 26 at Mbale Municipal Grounds. “If you thought that I am always predictable, I want you to know that in the year 2022, I am going to be extremely unpredictable. We will shape the destiny of this country as Kenyans. "We shall never allow any individual to think that he or she can shape the destiny of this country alone. God willing the destiny of Kenya is going to be in the hands of Kenyans,” Mudavadi said in Mbale. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)