We live in volatile times – and to win, I believe we must dig deep within and go beyond the superficial to find the answers that we need. It is a time to build the inner strength that can withstand the storms in any season of life. In the last three years, humanity has experienced increasing uncertainty, and there is no end in sight. It means that 2022 calls for tried, tested, and trusted strategies that work irrespective of the challenges. Winning is possible, and here are four simple strategies to help you win this year. Humility: In times of increasing uncertainty, one of the smartest things that you can do is to stay humble. Now, I’m not talking about humility in the traditional sense. I define humility as your willingness and capacity to learn, grow, and change. The first sign of humility is your openness to learning new things and constantly seeking to improve your perspective. In 2022, humility is an important skill to have. Those who commit to proactive learning will develop the flexibility required to grow, win and stay relevant this year. To win, are you willing to challenge the old viewpoints that no longer serve you? If yes, you would open yourself up to the growth opportunities that humility offers. Knowledge: Information is the raw material for thinking. Therefore, the quality of information determines the quality of thought. To win this year, it is important to seek quality knowledge that can empower you to achieve your goals. Yes, in modern culture, we’re overwhelmed by information. However, not all information will ensure your progress. It is wise to find and focus on knowledge that can take you where you want to go. Wisdom: Now, knowing is not enough; it’s important to Know-How. Knowing is one thing, and Know-How is yet another. Wisdom is the proper application of knowledge. Here, you have the insight and know-how to masterfully use knowledge to achieve your goals. Also, wisdom means that you’re able to devise creative solutions to complex problems in an ever-changing world. Skill: According to dictionary.com, skill means “competent excellence in performance; expertness." It is the ability to do something well. In the context of winning in 2022, it means reaching deep within yourself to tangibly and excellently express your ideas for people to see and appreciate. This year, a sloppy approach to work, relationships, and life aren’t wise. Live skillfully; let your life be excellent art this year. Happy New Year; enjoy 2022. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com