Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo has opened the Sh60 million new National Government Constituency Development Fund offices. The NG-CDF five-storey building is 95 per cent complete. It will bring services closer to the people. The current rental NG-CDF offices are five kilometres from the town. Njomo said the building will host chiefs and assistant chiefs offices, CDF offices, a conference hall and rent other entities. He spoke on Tuesday during the prayer ceremony for the building officiated by Furaha Worship Centre Bishop Peter Gachara. “The building has been constructed in two years and is almost complete. We will start using it immediately,” he said. Njomo said the rented offices will bring Sh8 million revenue per year, which will increase the bursary kitty. “Our bursary kitty does not have much and we have a big population. We are forced to give little cash to needy students,” he said. Njomo said the move to lease to other entities has been approved by the NG-CDF board since the monies collected are channelled back to serve the community. He said the building was constructed after a public participation session. The MP said they do not work to be rated but work towards accomplishing the projects proposed by Kiambu people. “We look at the importance and need of what Kiambu people have. The only people who should rate me are Kiambu residents who proposed what they wanted during public participation of Kiambu strategic plan,” Njomo said. He said at the moment, the project NG-CDF has started is ensuring that there is a school feeding programme in all schools. “We have started a school feeding programme from this month. We want our children to have a conducive time in school,” the MP said. He said, to address the issue of student enrolment to secondary school, NG-CDF built six new secondary schools. “In 2013 when I was elected there was only 48 per cent transition from Std 8 to Form One,” Njomo said. Among those who attended the ceremony include newly elected Kiambaa MP John Njuguna, Othaya MP James Njuguna, MCAs James Kamaguru, Hezron Gachui, Kiambu county senior chief George Kibugi, St Peter and Paul Catholic church Fr Kariuki among other leaders and residents. Edited by Kiilu Damaris