The Director of Public Prosecutions, Noordin Haji has ordered investigations into Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot's remarks in Eldoret. In a letter to Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai on Tuesday, Haji said the senator's utterances could have incited hatred, hostility, violence and discrimination. "You are hereby directed to institute comprehensive investigations in accordance with Article 157 (4) of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 to determine whether any offence (s) has been committed by the said senator and submit the resultant investigation file within seven days of the date hereof," the DPP said. Haji said Cheruiyot, while addressing a rally at Eldoret Sports Club in Uasin Gishu county, his alleged remarks which were captured on video made reference to the racial identity of an elected leader. The senator was among leaders who had accompanied Deputy President William Ruto for the Eldoret rally. The DPP in a separate letter to the IG also ordered investigations into remarks by Abubakar Amana in December 21, last year at a press conference. “The alleged remarks captured in the video clip refer to certain parts of Kenya belonging to certain tribes, and tribal background being a pre-condition for seeking an elective position in these areas,” Haji said. The remarks, he said were contrary to Article 33(2) of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 and sections 13 and 62(1) of the National Cohesion and Integration Act, No.12 of 2008. On Tuesday, Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka was arrested by DCI detectives in Kisii shortly after presenting himself to the authorities. Onyonka's arrest followed an order by the DPP who directed the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to probe hate speech allegations in his utterances. On Sunday, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi was arrested for using coded language that is said to be hate speech. Linturi was arrested at a hotel in Eldoret and taken to Nakuru where he was grilled over his madoadoa remarks. He was arraigned in court and released on Sh2 million cash bail.