@ppcheti Three judiciary officials,  two police officers and a driver were Wednesday injured after their vehicle was attacked by suspected al Shabaab militants. The latest in a series of recent attacks happened at Lango la Simba area in Nyongoro on the Lamu-Garsen road. The Judiciary officials were Garsen Law court senior principal magistrate Paul Rotich, court prosecutor Frank Sirima, court clerk Boy Njue, driver Abel Barisa and police officers Moses Bett and Willis Mgendi. They had just concluded a mobile court session in Kipini on the Lamu-Tana river border and were headed to Garsen town when they were attacked. Reports indicate the militants launched a rocket propelled grenade at the vehicle but missed. They sprayed the vehicle with bullets, deflating the tyres causing the driver to lose control, veering off the road into the bushes. “This gave us time to crawl out and hide in the bushes because we could hear the gunshots coming closer to where the vehicle was,”  a survivor who spoke on anonymity said. The magistrate, clerk and the two police officers sustained bruises on various parts of their bodies while the driver and the prosecutor suffered gunshot wounds to the right and left knees. Coast regional commissioner John Elungata said there were no casualties during the evening incident. He said the six occupants sustained manageable injuries and were all in stable condition. Elungata however said the attack was successfully repulsed by security agencies who responded immediately. “All the injuries sustained were manageable. They have since been attended to,” he said. Elungata said multi-agency security teams were still active on the ground pursuing the attackers. Two other vehicles are said to have been attacked a few hours before the judiciary vehicle came under attack at the same spot. About four days ago, suspected al Shabaab militants raided a mini-construction camp belonging to the China Communications Construction Company Limited at Kwa Omollo Bridge area inside the Boni forest. They torched eight construction vehicles and equipment worth billions on January 23. The Chinese company is constructing access roads to run through Garissa, Isiolo and later to Ethiopia and South Sudan. The Lapsset project is touted as East Africa's largest and most ambitious infrastructure project connecting Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan. Recent intelligence reports indicate the militia group is planning attacks in Lamu targeting the Lamu port and related infrastructure including the road leading to the port. Since the beginning of this year, the militia group has been carrying out targeted attacks on civilians and security officers. At least 15 people including four GSU officers have been killed in Lamu between January 2 and 9 following attacks by suspected al Shabaab militants in Widho, Juhudi-Ukumbi, Marafa, Mashogoni, Milihoi, and Bobo-Sunkia in Lamu west. Edited by Kiilu Damaris