ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire has formally joined the race for Nyamira governor. The former Kitutu Masaba MP launched his bid on Wednesday and vowed not to let down Nyamira people if elected. The event at Viongozi Pastoral centre in Kebirigo was graced by Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o, Suna East MP and National Assembly minority whip Junet Mohamed and Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina. Nyamira speaker Moffat Teya led some MCAs who joined the ODM county leaders in backing Bosire. The launch would now trigger a major political realignment in the county among those seeking top leadership. Junet termed Bosire as the best governor that Nyamira will ever get because he is a dependable ODM stalwart. “Bosire is a hero who is firm and does not entertain corruption. We have worked with him for the last five years and I know who he is,” Junet said. Nyong'o said his friendship with Bosire since 1978 drove him to drum support for the ex-MP saying he has trust in Bosire's leadership. “I call upon you to support Bosire and ODM leader Raila Odinga to State House in August,” he said. “We have seen where we are heading to as Azimio la Umoja. We want people who have people's interests at heart like Bosire.” Ole Kina said people should be told the truth. “I am here because of my friend Bosire, a great leader and a distinguished defender of justice and democracy, please support him,” he said. The senator also asked the residents to support Raila's Azimio la Umoja to save the country and change people’s lives. Bosire is the first governor aspirant in Nyamira to officially launch his bid and will be joining several other aspirants in the race. He is seeking to oust Governor Amos Nyaribo who succeeded John Nyagarama who died in office. Others who have declared interest include former MPs Walter Nyambati,  Mwancha Okioma, Kiangoi Ombasa, among others. Bosire said while many counties have made strides in devolution, Nyamira has not felt the impact of devolution. He promised to reform the health systems and invest in infrastructural development that will change the way Nyamira is perceived. “Deep-rooted corruption is among the key issues I have vowed to deal with when I assume office as governor,” he said. Bosire said he will prioritise youth empowerment and job creation. Teya, Woman Representative aspirant Emily Nyagarama, Nyamira county assembly majority leader and township ward MCA Duke Masira among other leaders attended the launch. Teya said Bosire is fit to be a leader and called upon the youths who have not registered to register as voters. Junet called on Kenyans to support Raila's presidency, saying the time has come for Kenya to be liberated and Kenyans should keep off from false prophets. He challenged DP William Ruto to come out and declare his track record. “Where were you in the last eight years? You are telling us you will help us rise yet you brought us down,” Junet said. Borabu MP aspirant Nyandoro Kambi  said Bosire is the right man for the job. “We know he is an able man, he will help us uplift our economic status, improve health facilities and services,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris