Florence Nakhumicha, 75, from Sango village in Bungoma, has been a midwife since 1974, despite being illiterate. Nakhumicha says she started attending to pregnant women and helping them deliver in absence of skilled nurses before dispensaries were built. She says every morning, she attends to 10-15 pregnant women from different parts of Bungoma. Some come from the Uganda border to seek her services. “Every morning, pregnant women come for massage services at my residence, which helps check if the foetus is in a good position,” the 75-year-old says. Nakhumicha can tell whether the pregnant woman expects a boy or a girl “During the massaging process, I can tell that. This is not superstition but God-given talent,” she says. Nakhumicha says her services are free, but sometimes she is given money to buy household items considering that she is old and jobless. In the early 1990s, Nakhumicha’s customers used to reward her with chicken or give her money between Sh20-Sh50. However, due to the rising number of diseases and other related complications by pregnant women, midwives are not allowed to assist pregnant women in labour to deliver. They instead refer them to the nearest health facility. “It’s been four years since we held a meeting with health professionals in Bungoma. They urged us not to allow women to deliver in our presence,” she says. “I have contacts of nurses in health facilities who can respond in case of any emergency.” Nakhumicha says despite being illiterate, a European woman doctor taught her how to massage and assist women in painful labour. Her daughters-in-law have never visited any health facility to deliver, they delivered at home under her care, before the regulations barred them from having women deliver at home. Emily Wakoli, her daughter-in-law, says Nakhumicha can know any problem by a pregnant woman. She has given birth to all her children under Nakhumicha’s assistance. “During my sixth pregnancy, doctors said I would deliver through cesarean section but when I shared with Nakhumicha, she solved the problem using traditional herbs and advised me,” Wakoli says. Joseph Wakoli, her husband, asked the state to consider and reward midwives who have served the community for long. “The state has been rewarding civil servants and other Kenyans acting in different capacities but they have neglected midwives who have saved the lives of many women before devolution,” he says. Edited by Kiilu Damaris