@ppcheti Lamu, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale are facing a fish shortage after fishermen temporarily abandoned the venture due to deadly winds, across the Indian Ocean. The situation has greatly affected fishing, a major income earner for these counties and caused a severe scarcity of the delicacy. Early this week, the meteorological department issued a travel advisory to fishermen and other sea users in Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi and Lamu to avoid venturing into the deep sea due to the extremely strong winds. Fishermen in the affected counties have been forced off the ocean owing to the high possibility of their vessels capsising to the rough tides accompanying the winds which have posed a serious challenge to navigation. Various Beach management Units across the affected counties have reported tough times for the last one week as the fishermen struggle to survive without their livelihood. Lamu BMU chairperson said the situation is so dire and the few fishermen who attempted to go out fishing have died. On Tuesday, one fisherman died and two others escaped unhurt after their boat capsised at the Mlango wa Tanu channel in Kiwayu, Lamu East during a fishing venture. Somo said they had been warned about the situation and sea. He asked the government to provide them with a cash sustenance programme to enable them to survive the unpredictable situation. “This is the sixth day that fishermen haven’t gone out fishing because of the situation at sea. It's the desperation for survival that has pushed some of us to risk it. We need to be cushioned against such,” Somo said. Lamu county has at least 9,000 fishermen spread across the various islands of the archipelago. Kilifi BMU chairperson Charles Janji said fish supply had gone down despite high demand owing to the situation. He urged the government to consider compensation for affected fishermen to enable them to cope until the weather conditions are favourable for them to return to fishing. Kilifi hosts the longest fishing corridor over the rest of the other coastal counties and a population of over 18,000 fishermen. “Just like they compensate victims of wildlife attacks, the government should make plans to compensate us until things get better,”  Janji said. Kwale county BMU vice secretary Mohamed Kassim said the situation had equally scared away fish from safer fishing channels downstream. “The fish have fled to dangerous areas that we can’t operate on with this kind of weather. We plead the government to cushion us against this because our survival has been hit, ” Kassim said. Consequently, fish prices have equally gone up with a kilo now selling for not less than Sh400 from Sh300. Fish shops in the affected counties have been operating below capacity and reported being unable to meet the high demand for fish supply. Edited by Kiilu Damaris