Some people view deadlocks as limiting, in terms of styling and accessorizing. But this is far from the truth. Dreads are not only versatile and expressive but to some a symbol of their beliefs. Something else most people do not realize is that you can braid your locs so ward off that fear of not being able to try styles out when you get a little bored of your locs. When it comes to accessorizing, keep in mind that this is your oyster. You can choose accessories to match your style, mood or season and better express yourself. There are several locs accessories such as beads, shells, threads and wraps to choose from. But keep in mind size matters, always. When looking into a jewellery consider the size of your locs as well. This is to ensure that the accessory not only fits well but also it doesn't strain your hair. It is recommended to start adding dread accessories when your hair is fully mature. This is because the accessory may end breaking your dreads if its heavier than the new locs. But fear not because adding beads to your dreads isn't a daunting task; a little time consuming but nothing over the top. Depending on the beads one is advised to use a crotchet pin to ensure the process is seamless. Well unless you're wearing the beads one casually slides on a strand then pulls it up. If you're using a crotchet pin, put the hooks through the beads then hook the dread to the pin and proceed to pull the beads onto the loc. Then move the ring up the hairpiece until it is fitted tightly and feels secure that it won't slide off. If using the normal wooden or plastic beads, just pass the bead into a strand of your hair then pull it up till your preferred area, ensuring that the bead is tight enough to avoid it falling off your hair as you move about but also ensure that it is loose enough that you can slide it off the strand should you choose to. To secure your beads (especially if you want them only at the bottom part of your dreads) you can opt to add metallic clasps after adding the beads so that they act like a barrier while still enhancing your look. Threads are the easiest accessory to add and they come in different colours, some shinny others not. They are elastic and easy to bend therefore you can just thread it around a strand of your dread in any design of your choice. Hair pendants are equally easy to put as they have a small opening almost where the circle meets. You can clasp the opening in the middle of your hair strand then squeeze it shut to secure it. If you're not overly busy or you have helpers around you can choose to felt or embroidery wrap your hair. With embroidery wrap/floss you just start at the top then wrap the strands tightly around your hair from top to bottom, building as many layers as you can with designs of your choice. Felting can be described as when wool roving is needled into ones dreads creating a soft textured colour. You can choose this if you're thinking of adding colour to your look but don't want to dye your looks due to fear of chemical damage. No need to worry about looking plain anymore, try out either of these accessories or all if minimalism isn't for you and bring life to your hair.