The father of the 24-year-old man who has been missing since December 31 thinks his son might have been shot by people believed to be police officers. Kennedy Avomba said on Thursday if his son, Johnson Waiti, is dead, he wants to see and bury his body. "If he was shot by mistake, say it was a case of error in identity. It is ok. Why hide him? Bring his body to us to bury," Avomba told the Star. "At this point, all we want is closure. If he is dead, we will accept." On December 31 at 9pm, Waiti stepped out from his father's house in Kayole. He told the estate watchman that he was going to pick something. He did not say where. That was the last time he was seen. He did not carry his phone and the TV and laptop were on in the house. His father, mother and brother were all upcountry for the Christmas holidays. Waiti had decided to stay in Nairobi to prepare for his end of semester exams. He is a final year student at the University of Nairobi studying business management and was to sit exams in the second week of this month. On the night he disappeared, his father tried to reach him. Avomba called his son on the phone and sent him a New Year message. Waiti did not respond to the message or pick calls. "This was unlike him," his father told the Star. “I know my son. He can’t fail to pick my call and ignore or fail to reply my message,” he said. After the phone went unanswered, Avomba became worried. On the morning of January 1, Avomba called neighbours in Nairobi, asking them to check if Waiti was in the house. The neighbours broke the door to gain access to the house. Waiti was not in the house. The neighbours checked the local police station but Waiti was not there. The family decided to travel back to Nairobi to look for him. The search has not been successful. "We have combed through all police stations, emergency sections of major hospitals and mortuaries in Thika, Kiambu and Nairobi but we have not found him," Avomba said. The only place he has not been to, he said, is Yala in Siaya to see if his body could be among the bodies that were found dumped in the river. The search took a new twist when it emerged that a shooting incident occurred in the area a few minutes after Waiti stepped out. "After asking around, it emerged that people believed to be police officers using a private car shot a young man in a shopping centre and carried him away. The shooting was not recorded anywhere, including at Kayole police station." Avomba keeps hope alive that Waiti is still alive, but has a strong gut feeling that it was his son who was shot that night. He said they must see whoever was shot that night to rule out that it was not his son. "We are devastated," Avomba said. Waiti's mother was present during the interview, but was distraught and could not speak to the Star. Avomba works as a church administrator at Friends Church in Donholm. Edited by A.N