Residents of Limuru have welcomed the move by the former Limuru MP John Kiragu Chege to join the United Democratic Alliance. The former MP was officially welcomed to the UDA party by the Deputy President William Ruto while he visited him at his official residence in Karen on Friday. Kiragu was accompanied by other UDA parliamentary aspirants. They included Mwalimu Sammy Maina, a close ally to the DP and all aspirants eying the MCA position from the five wards in Limuru led by the former Kiambu deputy speaker Anthony Macharia and former Ndeiya Ward MCA Nelson Munga. Kiragu represented Limuru between 2013 to 2017 TNA ticket but was later trounced by the incumbent Peter Mwathi during the 2017 polls on a Jubilee ticket. John Macharia, a resident, said that the former MPs move to join UDA came at the right time and that he has listened to the people and would enjoy their support during the August 9 general election. “It’s not too late for the MP to join UDA. It is good he has listened to what the ground is saying because the residents' hearts are with Ruto. We shall therefore hit the ground running and support his bid,”  Macharia said. Another resident, Dancer Jay, hailed the MP for his support of education, saying that thousands of young people in Limuru are beneficiaries of full scholarships of education from high school to university level from the MP and his family. Welcoming him to UDA, Ruto wrote on his official Facebook page, “the hustler nation continues to grow bigger and bigger. Today Engineer John Kiragu Chege declared interest to recapture the Limuru Constituency seat on a UDA ticket". Speaking to the press after the Karen meeting, Kiragu said he has done according to the will of the people of Limuru who most of them have been calling upon him to vie again, saying they are tired of the current administration. “The party has a plan and a good manifesto for the people and though the parties are many and they are yet to roll out their agendas, time is running out and therefore Limuru people have prevailed upon me to join UDA,” Kiragu said. The MP will be facing stiff competition from Mwathi who enjoys massive support from Azimio la Umoja led Raila Odinga and Jubilee Party leaders led by President Uhuru Kenyatta. (edited by Amol Awuor)