Church and residents at former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka’s rural home in Tseikuru have condemned the fake news of his wife's demise. The information was posted on social media by Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua on Sunday purportedly to condole with Kalonzo’s family. The post was later pulled down and Governor Mutua apologised. He blamed it on misinformation. However, Independent Faith Baptist Church condemned the fake information on its stalwart, Pauline Kathini Musyoka. “The phoney information about the death of Pauline hit our church like a thunderbolt. Faithful were troubled and pained by the sad news considering her family made Christmas donations,” Rev Titus Musenge said. Musenge, who heads the Tseikuru IFB church, said word by Kalonzo later on Sunday that his wife was alive and recuperating at home was re-assuring to fellow adherents and effectively warded off the somber mood that had gripped them. “As a church, we were hard hit because she is a committed faithful whom we love so much. She has been pivotal in most church activities and God’s work. We were, therefore, not amused by the fake news in the media,” he said. The cleric urged leaders to filter and only share verified information. He said matters touching on death should not be politicised. “We must be respectful bearing in mind that we are mortals. Death is in the hands of God and not people. We should pray for each other as challenges abound in all families,” Musenge said. Mbulusi Kaio, a Tseikuru elder, viewed the spread of the fake news on Kalonzo wife’s death as a perpetuation of an ominous political warfare against him. “I am at a loss why political rivals should target his wife, who is not a politician, instead of going for Kalonzo himself,” he said. “The bottom line is that the fake information was only meant to injure Kalonzo politically,” Kaio added. Former Kyuso MCA Angela Mbula, an ally of Pauline, wondered what could have prompted Governor Mutua to spread such devastating and damaging information before confirming with the family. Both Mbula and Kaio castigated Mutua for giving false information of such magnitude while he could have pre-empted the immense damage by making a phone call to Kalonzo and verifying the information. Mbula said the fake news had caused anxiety not only locally but internationally because Kalonzo is an envoy of international acclaim and with diverse global connections. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)