Traders in Runyenjes market have complained of its poor state despite them urging leaders to intervene and paying taxes every Monday and Thursday to the county government. They say the roof leaks whenever it rains forcing them to remain at home on rainy days. Customers also avoid the waterlogged market. The market lacks clean drinking water, electricity, parking and proper structures for their stock, some of which is highly perishable thus suffering losses. Speaking to the Star on Friday, trader Benson Ndwiga said they have been neglected by the county government, which does not consider the market welfare. “We are forced to use umbrellas and polythene papers to cover our stock whenever it rains. We cannot operate whenever it rains because the water destroys our stock,” he said. Ndwiga said they have incurred losses due to the state of the market. The vegetables and cereals retailer said the county government should consider it a matter of emergency and repair the roofing, connect clean water and build a parking to allow more customers in the market. Runyenjes market is located in Runyenjes town, Embu county, along Embu-Meru highway. Ndwiga said customers prefer to shop elsewhere since the market is impassable whenever it rains. Nancy Kaari said their hard work goes unappreciated since they lose customers daily. She said they expected to make more money last month but the state of the market barred customers from getting to the premises. “December is the festive month that we anticipate and make good money. However, customers avoided the market and opted to shop elsewhere. "We deal with food and hygiene comes first. I would say the county government and leaders have failed us and should do something to change the situation of the Runyenjes market,” she said. Peter Nyaga said he has been forced to restock his business not once after his Sh50,000 stock was destroyed by the leaking water. He urged the county government to intervene and attend to their grievances. Nyaga said a good market will benefit a chain of departments from farmers, market owners to the customers. “We need this problem solved as fast as possible to encourage our customers to shop with us,” he said. Nyaga said the county collects tax every Monday and Thursday but they haven’t seen what they pay for as the situation remains the same. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)