Recruitment of political party members could be an uphill task following new rules drawn by the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties to govern the process. The rules may also spell doom for fringe parties as no political outfit would be allowed to run without a register of members duly ratified by the Anne Nderitu-led ORPP. The ORPP is on the verge of rolling out the Political Parties Information Management System which would provide a platform to manage particulars of political party members. Kenyans would also have an opportunity to remove their details if wrongfully registered as members of a political party, to the disadvantage of many as the lists would now be made public. The new system would provide details of the person’s recruitment, including the date of recruitment, the membership number, and the official that submitted the name for registration. Also to be indicated is the date when the information relating to a member of a political party was entered into the register by the registrar. The Political Parties (Membership) Regulations, 2021, provide that political parties will have to maintain an accurate and up to date register of members. “A political party shall ensure that the list of members is accurate and up to date,” the rules to be ratified by the Committee on Delegated Legislation Committee read. As per the current parties’ law, as amended recently, a person seeking to run for office must be a member of the outfit by March 26, being 14 days to the April 9 deadline for nominations. The rules set a standard membership recruitment form to be used by all parties – the same to be hosted electronically in the PPMIS. “The prospective member shall fill out a membership recruitment form, including the names of the prospective member, postal and physical address, and ID or passport number,” the rules read. The parties registrar, the regulations read, will certify the technology for registering members before the same is used or deployed by the political party. “A political party shall keep and maintain all the original copies of the recruitment forms of its members in an accessible and verifiable format,” the rules read. The rules further provide that the recruitment records kept and maintained by the party would be accessed by the registrar after giving sufficient notice. Members would also be in a position to access the membership records in respect of their data or any information they may seek from the register. Details of persons who have ceased to be a member of a political party by resignation, expulsion, death or revocation of citizenship shall be removed from the register. Parties have also been granted the option of correcting errors relating to a registered member on its own motion or on request of a member. “A political party shall at all times comply with all relevant provisions of the Data Protection Act in respect of the data it collects from or about the members.” Persons registered without their consent would also get an opportunity to notify the registrar for such record to be expunged and the feedback given in writing. The membership register will be transmitted to the registrar through the political parties’ information management system. “Where the information transmitted does not conform to that contained in the membership registration form, the registrar shall notify the party in writing and the political party shall correct the information to ensure conformity,” the regulations read. After receiving information from political parties, the registrar would be expected to verify the accuracy of which non-compliance will render a party without a valid register. Provisionally registered parties that fail to apply for full registration would lose their membership records in the new rules, as well as those whose applications have been rejected. Those who have been removed from the register shall be eligible to join or be recruited by another political party whereas those whose parties are merging can choose to remain or opt out.