Fast food chain KFC has finally bowed to pressure and announced that it will be soon be sourcing its potatoes from Kenyan farmers provided they meet they meet the global KFC quality. KFC made the statement on Tuesday after an uproar on social media emerged when the company announced that it would stick to its decision to import potatoes despite availability from local farmers. "Although we currently import our French fries there is an opportunity to source the potatoes from a local supplier that meets the global KFC quality and safety specifications in the near future," the company's CEO for the East Africa region Jacques Theunissen said. The franchise currently imports its potato supply from Egypt. Earlier on, Theunissen, in an interview with a local daily, cited quality approval procedures as the reason why they cannot source local potatoes. “The reason we cannot buy local at the moment is all suppliers need to go through the global QA approval process and we cannot bypass that even if we run out to ensure that our food is safe for consumption by our customers,” he told Business Daily. The CEO also revealed to the daily that the stock ran out as a result of a hitch in the global supply of potatoes. He noted that there have been delays in the shipping lines because of the Covid pandemic and said efforts are underway to restock. “Ships have been delayed for more than a month now, but we are working hard to restore as the first containers are arriving in the port today (Tuesday),” said Theunissen. KFC, on Monday, announced to its customers that they can not serve them their favourite fried chips owing to lack of stock. The company, known for selling distinct fried chicken and French fries locally referred to as chips, announced alternative meals it is now offering Kenyans even as they pledged on restocking as soon as possible. "Fam it was truly a Furaha December. Mlikula sherehe with your KFC faves. Ya'll loved our chips a little too much, and we've run out," KFC tweeted. "Sorry! Our team is working hard to resolve the issue. In the meantime here are some SWAP options for combo meals if you are craving our Kuku."