DPP Noordin Haji has urged Kenyans to record politicians propagating hate speech and preaching divisions among electorates. Speaking in Masalani, Garissa on Wednesday, Haji said his office will not relent in prosecuting politicians regardless of the political affiliations. “As ODPP we urge the public to provide information, for us to direct as per the Constitution the kind of investigation that we expect from the national police and the NCIC. “We might not be everywhere but if people are aggrieved and feel there was hate speech and can give us the recordings, then we can be able to ask the investigative agencies to probe and allow us to prosecute," Haji said. Last week, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi was criticised by a cross section of leaders over alleged inciting remarks issued during Deputy President William Ruto's rally in Eldoret town. He has since been charged and is out on bond. Other politicians who have also come under attack in the recent weeks over their utterances are Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot. ODM leader Raila Odinga argued that the remarks risked returning the country into the dark days. He said they threatened to divide the country as it geared toward a high-peak campaign season. DP Ruto later apologised over Linturi's ‘madoadoa’ utterances saying the UDA party does not believe in regional or ethnic-based politics. The DPP assured Kenyans that his office is determined to tame rogue politicians with loose tongue. He said they will not be cowed or be intimidated by politicians. “We have been trying to ensure that politicians adhere to the rules and do not spread hate among citizenry. "We want to be very clear to politicians that come August election, they must be peaceful. They must adhere to the required rules and with decorum,” Haji said. He said his office has directed the Inspector of Police and National Cohesion and Integration Commission to probe the culprits with a view of prosecuting those incriminated. “If the evidence is sufficient for us to prosecute, then we will immediately prosecute. Any speech that is likely to promote hate or conflict will be dealt with accordingly,” the DPP said. Haji added that he has reached out to the Judiciary to convince the court to expedite cases related to hate speech. “We will also be reaching out to the Chief Justice to fast track hate speech matters. Anybody with bravado will be met with the rule of law. We will not allow anybody to mock the processes. That itself will be an illegality. "Anybody who will try to put hurdles either in the investigations or prosecutions, we shall ensure that the due process is followed and the person is prosecuted for obstruction. “I think we are all in agreement that this election must be different. People must follow the law and rules that are prescribed in terms of how electioneering should be done and how people should carry themselves,” the DPP said. The Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey while speaking in his office urged the ODPP to work closely with other government agencies and crack the whip on rogue politicians. Amey who is also an elder from Garissa, said reckless utterances from politicians was what led to the 2007 post-election violence. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)