High-flying, Kakamega Homeboyz, will be keen to stretch their unbeaten run into the eleventh round of the Kenyan Premier League fixtures when they flex muscles with newbies Talanta at Bukhungu Stadium on January 4. The encounter highlights the return of action after the four-day festive break. Homeboyz's last encounter against AFC Leopards in Nairobi ended in a two-all draw as the Bernard Mwalala-tutored side continued to make clear their early intentions of claiming a maiden title. They will seek to emulate their performance during the 2019/2020 season when they defied odds to emerge runners-up behind record champions Gor Mahia, six years after gaining promotion to the top tier. Homeboyz may, however, not find the going easy against a determined Talanta side who have been turning tables on more seasoned sides. Homeboyz top the league standings with 25 points, three clear of last season's runners-up KCB. The bankers have a date with Mathare United who have struggled to assert their presence in the new season and their poor run has left them battling for survival at the rump of the log with seven points. Kenya Police will look to pile more misery on fellow debutants Vihiga Bullets at Ruaraka grounds. The law enforcers have gone three matches unbeaten in their most recent fixtures and are fancied to make light work of Bullets who are yet to register a single win this season. Sofapaka and Bandari will square it off at Wundanyi Stadium in a mouthwatering coastal derby. Both teams are at the heart of title contention with the dockers in fourth place with 19 points. Sofapaka, on the other hand, are sixth with a point adrift. Kariobangi Sharks will travel all the way to ASK grounds in Nakuru to honour their fixture against Ulinzi Stars. Both sides have been blowing hot and cold this season. Whereas Sharks are fifth with 18 points, the soldiers are rooted in tenth with 15 points from 1o matches. AFC Leopards return to action against Nairobi City Stars at Nyayo Stadium in one of the fixtures slated for January 5. The latter are fancied to carry the day given they are heading into the tie on the back of a convincing 2-0 win over record champions, Gor Mahia. Gor Mahia have an arduous task ahead against a rejuvenated Nzoia Sugar side who will host them at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma. Champions Tusker will lock horns with Bidco United at Ruaraka grounds. The brewers experienced a torrid start to the season but gradually managed to gain some traction along the season. They are currently placed 11th with 13 points. Moneybags, Wazito, have some scores to settle with rivals Posta Rangers atMoi Stadium, Kasarani.