Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo has urged school heads not to send candidates home over fees payment. Odhiambo said as the third term starts on January 3, most parents are financially constrained as there was only two weeks break. “Despite bursary funds for needy students, we have met parents who are overwhelmed due to the effects of Covid-19 and the new curriculum change has made matters worse,” she said According to the Ministry of Education academic calendar, on March 7 there will be the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams and on March 11 the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams will start. “Schools will reopen for the first term on April 25 which will be another short period, this will strain parents further,” Odhiambo said. On November 28, KCPE will start before KCSE on December 1. “We call on the government to ensure education funds are released on time to cushion parents against the strain of paying fees to manage schools,” Odhiambo said. She said the double national examinations will push for new admissions in secondary and colleges, which if not checked will prevent 100 per cent transition as envisioned by the government. “Apart from tightly packed terms, these new admissions which take more resources in families especially with several students will be bad,” Odhiambo said. Millicent Atieno, a parent of two secondary school candidates supported the legislator’s sentiments saying school heads should embrace mobile technology in alerting parents with candidates with fee balances instead of sending them home. “Apart from this year’s calendar confusing us, we are strained in resources we will appreciate if candidates are allowed in schools with special fee payment arrangements,” she said. The two spoke at Nyamome Primary in Migori town when the county National Government Affirmative Action Fund released Sh5.7million bursaries to 200 beneficiaries. The cheques were released ahead of the beginning of the next term and saw vetting of needy students across the 40 wards. Edited by Kiilu Damaris