Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman on Thursday urged his supporters not to trade his tried and tested leadership for anything else in the forthcoming general election. Osman, who is among politicians recently picked by the Awdhaq council of elders to defend his seat, asked the constituents to give him another chance. Addressing his supporters in Bura town when he conducted a meet-the-people tour, Osman expressed confidence that he will beat his opponents by a landslide owing to his development track record. He also thanked his supporters for the faith they have shown in his leadership in the five years he has been in office. Last month, the Garissa Awdhaq council of elders, led by Sultan Dekhow Sambul, endorsed several aspirants for different seats. Those picked include Osman, Lands executive Issa Yarrow (Balambala) and Udgoon Siyad (Woman Rep aspirant). The elders, however, left out Dekhow Mohamed (governor aspirant),  Garissa Women Rep Anab Gure and Salah Yakub (Fafi). Others who were rejected include Abdikadir Aden, Ismail Arale, Yarrow Aress (Balambala) and  Farhiya Muse (Woman Rep aspirant). The council comprises Rer Harun, Rer Musa, Rer Gulleid, Aden Gerry, Rer Yahya, Rer Kassim and Rer Mahat subclans. Osman said the dynamic of clan politics plays a big part in the election. He however added that one’s development track record was a big contributor to their performance in the election. Osman, who hails from the Rer Kassim subclan, said he was proud of the   projects he had initiated in his tenure which include improving infrastructure in schools, bursary  allocation to the needy and helping farmers get farm machines. “I have tried my best to ensure my constituents have benefited from fair distribution of bursaries, including World Bank-funded KRDIP projects,” he said. He added, “We no longer experience the clashes that we used to witness  over watering points by our people because we now have several boreholes serving them." "Above all, we have managed to equip our peace committees which have played an integral role in ensuring all communities in Fafi  co-exist peacefully,” he added. In a veiled attack at Gure, Osman said some aspirants were going round the constituency tarnishing his name and discrediting his development track record. He, however, said those aspirants are only keen on winning votes while they have done little with their kitty to improve residents lives. Gure has declared her candidature for the seat. Salah Yakub, who has the the support of Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, has also expressed interest in the seat. (edited by Amol Awuor)