Former majority leader Aden Duale has written to Speaker Justin Muturi protesting delays in consideration of a bill seeking to reduce fuel prices. The Garissa Township MP wants the House to prioritise the Petroleum Products (Taxes and Levies) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 when sittings resume later this month. The Bill sponsored by Finance and National Planning committee chaired by Gladys Wanga, seeks to among other things reduce the price of petrol, kerosene and diesel. The legislation came as a response to public outrage over high cost of fuel that forced MPs to relook the taxes imposed on fuel. If the bill is considered, Petroleum Development Levy charged on super petrol and diesel will reduce from Sh5.40 to Sh2.90. It further reduces VAT from eight to four per cent. VAT on fuel was introduced by the VAT Act of 2013, but its adoption was deferred by three years until 2016. Another two-year extension was given through the 2016 Finance Act. The 2018 Finance Act pegged VAT on fuel at eight per cent. In a letter to the Speaker dated January 13, Duale petitioned Muturi to convene a special sitting specifically to consider the bill. He argued the high fuel prices have made the lives of Kenyans unbearable and that Parliament should urgently move to alleviate the suffering. “It was intended that once the bill was published, its consideration would be fast tracked by the House so that the legal framework is put in place speedily and Kenyans can get the much deserved reprieve,” Duale said. He added, “In the light of the foregoing, I seek your indulgence and request that, if you approve, the House be recalled on Thursday, January 20 for it to consider and pass the Bill which is long overdue.” In case the special sitting fails, the former majority leader said Muturi being the chair of the House Business Committee, should direct that the Bill be prioritised upon resumption of the House on January 25. “We shall be judged harshly by history as the 12th Parliament, if we conduct an inquiry like we did through the Finance and National Planning Committee, make recommendations thereof and as a result publish a Bill only for it to be shelved away with no further action.” The Bill by Wanga-led team was published on October 28, 2021 following recommendations of the report of the committee, on the inquiry of the increase in prices of petroleum and petroleum products. The Bill was first read on November 10, 2021 and since then no progress has been made on its consideration. The Bill also proposes to restructure the Petroleum Development Fund to specify under what circumstances the fund can be used by establishing the Petroleum Development Fund Advisory Board. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)