Businessman Jimi Wanjigi spent Tuesday night in police cells at Kamukunji police station after his dramatic arrest from the Westlands area in Nairobi Tuesday. He is expected in court Wednesday, even with a court order stopping his arraignment. He was driven to Milimani court under tight security and handcuffed before he was led to the basement cells waiting for the court process. He exuded confidence that he would be freed. “I am fine, but this is political harassment. We will be free,” he said. Police plan to have him arraigned and charge him alongside his wife Irene Nzisa with alleged fraud. Wanjigi had barricaded himself in his office for more than 20 hours as police sought to arrest him. High Court Justice Anthony Murima had issued orders stopping his arrest and prosecution, but detectives who had been camping at his Kwacha House broke into rooms and removed him by force. A CCTV footage that captured the last events of his arrest showed him standing in a corner as police broke a door leading into his office. Wanjigi had been in a bunker at the underground of the offices and later walked to the office after learning the police were breaking in. After his capture, he picked up his coat and told the officers to give him time to talk to his lawyer. They then hauled him to a waiting car before they drove in a convoy to Kamkunji police cells, which are deemed dirty and insecure at large. At the cells, he was held in an isolation place after police feared he might be harmed by tens of suspects detained there. The businessman had earlier rubbished the evidence used by police and the prosecution to have him charged. “This matter had been deliberated in court and concluded. I am not a director of the company they are using to charge me. This wrong,” he said. Police had presented a charge sheet with eight charges, including forgery prompting the magistrate to issue a warrant against him. Detectives from the Land Fraud Unit had on December 10 forwarded the inquiry file to the Director of Public Prosecutions with recommendations that Wanjigi, Nzisa, John Nyanjua Njenga and Caroline Njoki, an advocate, be charged with obtaining Sh56 million from Kenroid Limited by falsely pretending they were in a position to sell the company a 0.3314-hectare piece of land on General Mathenge road in Westlands. The DCI had launched investigations to establish the real owners of the land, Grant I.R No.65800 L.R No.1870/II/200, which is claimed by three parties – Aureum Ltd owned by the Wanjigis, businesswoman Cissy Kalunde Musembi and Horizon Hills Limited. This, therefore, means no such payments would have been made from a non-existent account. The probe noted some contradiction in a case where Nzisa claimed that in 2010, jointly with her husband Wanjigi, they purchased the land at Sh154 million from Horizon Hills through Kairu and Tyl Company Limited (John Njenga).