More than 5,000 small-scale traders from Murang’a county have received interest-free loans to help them start or upgrade their businesses. The traders, who have been consolidated under the Wachuuzi  Sacco by the county, will act as each other’s guarantors. The traders will have subcounty Saccos that will then have an umbrella county Sacco through which they will be empowered. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said that small-scale businesses are the backbone of the economy hence the need to empower them. He added that he will source for Sh1 billion that will act as a revolving fund for the traders. “The traders, including hawkers and other small-scale traders, know each other and will help keep each other in check through their subcounty Saccos,” he said. So far, Wachuuzi Sacco has registered more than 40,000 people, most of whom benefited from free technical training through local polytechnics sponsored by the county. Each month, the county will issue more cheques in each of the subcounties. Though no collateral will be required, beneficiaries will be required to service the loans on a daily basis. “I will not wait to be elected as president to start some of these programmes,” Wa Iria, who is vying for the top seat, said. He cited the Hawkers Bill formerly known as the Hawkers and Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood) Bill 2018 which he drafted. The Bill seeks to champion hawkers' welfare by ensuring that they are registered, formally recognised and designated in areas with sanitary facilities and running water, and where customers can easily access them. It also sought to allow hawkers to be allocated specific days and streets where they can operate without being harassed by enforcement officers. The Bill however stalled in the Senate after going through the second reading. The governor said hawkers and small-scale traders in Murang'a have been allowed to operate in towns in order to make a livelihood. “Some people said they should be removed from Murang’a town because they were making the town dirty but what benefit is cleanliness if some people cannot put food on their table?” he said. After taking care of all small-scale traders in the county, Wa Iria announced that he will open branches of the Sacco in other counties, which he said will be sponsored through his Usawa Kwa Wote party. “We will go through county assemblies in the Central region to formulate policies that will support establishment of Saccos to empower small-scale business people,” he said. He added that the programme targets traders in car wash business, beauty shops, as well as hawkers who find it hard to access loans from banks or other financial institutions. “Through the Sacco, they can save and access credit facilities,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)