Kenya Police boxing club head coach Dave Munuhe has extolled his charges for clinching two consecutive titles in the preceding year, attributing their windfall to sheer hard work and commitment. The law enforcers cruised to two consecutive Jamal Cup titles after edging their opponents on points in both the maiden and second editions of the inaugural tournament held in Nairobi and Kisumu respectively. Police boast of a lion's share in the Hit Squad ranks, including Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship gold medalist Elly Ajowi, fellow Olympian Christine Ongare, bantamweight Shaffi Bakari, lightweight Joseph Shigali, and a host of other household names in the local scene. “It was simply a matter of hard work, discipline, and dedication in the team. “We have also created an environment where the boxers are at liberty to express themselves and suggest ideas that can be used to strengthen the team. Munuhe says the National Police Service has always maintained a tradition of offering employment opportunities to boxers who exhibit exemplary talent in the sport. “We have been absorbing outstanding boxers in the National Police Service as a way of appreciating their efforts and talent. However, they must meet the basic requirements, including possessing the minimum academic qualification for them to land a job,” said Munuhe. Munuhe said although he has worked with many boxers over the years, Benson Gicharu Njangiru stands out from the crowd. “Gicharu is a disciplined boxer who keenly listens to instructions and adheres faithfully to the script. Gicharu won silver at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, a bronze medal at the 2014 Commonwealth Games, and qualified for the 2012 Olympics. In Delhi 2010, he beat Oteng Oteng but lost to local Suranjoy Mayengbam in the final. And after the bumper harvest in the preceding season, Munuhe and his charges are now training their eyes on yet another windfall when Boxing Federation of Kenya ultimately rolls out its new calendar of events in February. “We are keen to extend our good run into the new year. We look to more titles and honours and hope to have more of our boxers in the national team,” said Munuhe. Police dominated the proceedings of the inaugural  President Jamal Boxing Championships to emerge top of the pack. The law enforcers strutted to the winner's podium following a splendid outing that saw their pugilists scoop more points than their opponents from their bouts.