A meeting convened by Bomet legislators at the Bomet Green stadium ahead of Monday's planned visit by Deputy President William Ruto ended in disarray after it was disrupted by a section of youth. Giving a glimpse of what might be a possible showdown among the leaders and their supporters, nominated MP Wilson Sossion was forced to cut short his speech as the youth jeered, accusing him of being an intruder. Sossion who is a nominated MP on the ODM party is contesting for the senatorial seat on the United Democratic Alliance party alongside senator Christopher Lang'at and lawyer Hillary Sigei. The ugly incident brought the press conference to a premature end as leaders who included governor Hillary Barchok scampered for safety. Other leaders present were MPs Dominic Koskei (Sotik), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Joyce Korir (Woman Rep) among several other aspirants. Lang'at had just concluded giving his address and handed over the microphone to Sossion when the youth stormed in shouting him down. Ruto is expected in the county for a major rally, before attending a series of meetings in Kericho. Efforts by the governor to contain the visibly irate youth fell on deaf ears. In his address, Barchok called on residents to turn out in large numbers and maintain peace during the function. "Tomorrow is the day we have longed for, we want to show the DP that as a region we love him and we will fully support him in his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta," he stated. Chief Administrative Secretary John Mosonik and Chama Cha Mashinani  party leader Isaac Rutto who are vying for the gubernatorial seat addressed the press separately where they prevailed upon leaders, aspirants and supporters of various candidates to put aside their differences during the Monday event. "Political differences are there but we do not want to display it on that day, let us remain peaceful until when the visitor has left," Mosonik said. On his part, Rutto called on leaders accompanying the DP not to harass leaders from small parties. "We are all endorsing the DP so we should not be forced into folding the party."  Edited by B. Oruta