Jiji Ndogo is beautiful this morning. The sun is bright but not hot. Birds cavort gaily in the sky. Or maybe it’s just my new perspective on life and love. Finally, I’ve learned to stop pining for Sgt Sophia’s love. Any woman’s, for that matter. Like Mzee Kimanzi would say, if it’s meant to be, it shall be. Strange how a new perspective on life can be liberating. Or maybe (and I believe this is most likely the culprit), the balmy day is only the calm before the storm, a prelude to the disaster later on. You see, today, we’re expecting a huge delegation in Jiji Ndogo, and I’m not looking forward to the ensuing congregation, or the lies we’re doomed to bear. My partner Sophia, on the other hand, appears too eager for my liking. She’s absolutely gorgeous in her shiny police uniform, ironed to a particularly sharp crisp. A sharp pang of envy tears through my feeble heart. “Your uniform,” I say. “What about it?” “You could cut grass with that crease.” She smiles. “It does look sharp, doesn’t it?” “It does. I wonder why?” She fixes me one of her 'Sophia stares'. The devastating one she spares for when she is being mischievous. “Sgt Makini, are you jealous?” “Jealous? Of what? Who?” “C’mon, dude. It’s all over your eyes.” “I don’t know what you’re talking about.” She closes the gap between us in three sultry steps. She appears to be flowing, an angel gliding through the air instead of a mortal human on solid earth. Like a burning match, the hand she places on my shoulder sets my entire body on fire. And not just that. The look in her eyes, the way she flutters her eyelashes, the sensual way she licks her lips. “You think I’m all dolled up for him?” I look away. “Never mind what I think. I hope you’ll behave a little more professionally when the MP gets here.” She steps away, leans against the desk. “Makini, how long have you been requesting for a vehicle to replace that two-wheeled death trap of a bicycle?” “What’s that got to do with anything?” She hitches her generous bottom onto the desk top. “Don’t you think it’s time we changed tactics?” “Sure. We could always go to Kericho and hijack one of the police cruisers. Itakuwa mali ya serikali inakulana tu, right?” She pops open the three top buttons of her blouse, tugs the collar tips away from her neck. Barely restrained by her bra, her ample breasts bounce out like a pair of overinflated footballs smashed together, between them, a cleavage as deep as the Rift Valley. “Jesus Christ, Sophia. What the hell are you doing? Isn’t it enough that I have to bear seeing you traipsing half-naked all over the house, now you have to be trashy at work, too?” “Unlike you, I’m willing to use what my mama gave me.” “What are you blabbering on about?” She leans back, thrusting her bossom into the air. Almost in slow motion, she lifts one leg, crosses it over the other. My eyes stick like glue to her thighs. Any time now, I am sure, the flimsy material of her trousers will rip at the seams and spill flesh like a live bomb. “Get it?” she asks, putting two fingers to her lips as if she’s smoking a cigarette. “Get what?” “Sharon Stone. Basic Instinct?” Disillusioned, she hops off the desk, hurriedly buttons up. “Never mind. But one way or another, we’ll have a vehicle before election day.”