Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has urged Kenyans and politicians to maintain peace during campaigns. He said elections are not supposed to end in violence and chaos, but are meant to give voters a chance to choose the leaders of their choice. “Elections offer an avenue for residents of a particular county, ward or constituency to pick the leader they want and whom they trust will bring development that will impact life positively. I want to ask youth to refuse to be used by some politicians to cause violence during campaigns," Lusaka said. He spoke on Saturday at Ndengelwa Secondary School during the funeral service of Bishop Peter Murunga of Grace Community Church in Kanduyi, Bungoma county. Lusaka said a few people should not be allowed to cause chaos. “All of us are brothers and sisters. The politicians who exchange bitter words during campaigns bury their differences and come together and talk," he said. Lusaka asked residents to turn up in huge numbers and get registered as voters. The second phase of the Enhanced Continuous Voter Registration drive started on Monday. “For those who may have missed out on registering as voters, make sure you use this short time and get registered," the Senate Speaker said. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati urged the church to pray for the country as it prepares for elections. “Residents should know the agenda of a person before they elect him or her to any position. Bungoma needs a visionary leader who will initiate projects and build manufacturing sectors that will open jobs for unemployed youth," he said. Wangamati said he will defend his seat during the August polls. Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga said politicians should tell the electorate what they have to offer instead of tainting the names of others. “When you go somewhere for a rally to woo residents to support you, your party or coalition, make sure you tell them what you will do for them but don't start heaping accusations on your opponents. Accusations may lead the country to post-election violence," he said. Mabonga said people should not vote for parties, and they should instead assess what the person has to offer. "In August, people will decide who between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga has the agenda of changing the lives of Kenyans. The agenda should define the future of this country, UDA is there to empower small people," he said. Edited by A.N