Kiambu Governor James Nyoro's wife Sarah has urged the assembly to pass the Community Health Workers Bill. Sarah said the community workers have been offering voluntary services for many years. She said whenever there are health campaigns, the volunteers assist the community to be informed by visiting homes. "The CHWs are used during polio vaccination campaigns where they go door to door ensuring it is administered and participate in other campaigns," she said. She applauded Nyoro's administration for recognising their efforts and coming up with a bill that will see them start receiving stipends so that they can be motivated. "The government has recognised their services and as a way of motivating our CHWs, the bill gives room for them to start receiving a stipend, some money to motivate them,"she said. Sarah spoke at Nyambare AIC Church in Lari constituency on Saturday when she distributed food as a Christmas gift to the needy families. She was accompanied by county health director Teresiah Njoroge, Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu, public health officials and CHWs from the area. Karichu said the bill has undergone several stages and expressed hopes that when sessions resume, it will be passed and assented. The CHWs are drawn from all sublocations and know everyone in the village they come from. "They are the easiest people the government uses to assist it to identify needy families, sick people as well as creating awareness on issues regarding health" he said. The MCA, who told the residents he will be contesting for the Lari parliamentary seat in the forthcoming general elections, revealed that he is lobbying other MCAs to support the CHWs bill since even the governor wants to motivate them. Nyambare CHWs vice chairperson Martha Gathoni applauded Nyoro's administration for showing concern for health workers who are volunteers. "We do small businesses and when we are needed we make ourselves available even if it's for one week. The governor has shown concern for us with training and the certificates we received, meaning we are recognised," Gathoni said. "God has been on our side. Some have children who we feed everyday, pay rent, school fees and meet other needs" she added.