Famous American actress and comedian Betty White is dead. Betty White died peacefully on Friday morning at her home. The multi-Emmy award-winning actress aged 99 years was just three weeks away from her 100th birthday party. Born January 17, 1922 Betty had her first debut in television in 1939 in an experimental TV show but it wasn’t until 1949 that her career really picked off when she  began her regular appearances  on "Hollywood on Television" She went on to have numerous roles and TV appearances in the last seven decades. Betty White wasn’t just a pretty face on the screens, she also served the US army in World War II as a member of the American Women’s Voluntary Services. The team helped provide support services to the nation during the war. The US Army released a statement saying they were saddened by the death of Betty. "We're saddened by the passing of Betty  White. Not only was she an amazing actress, but she also served during  WWII. A true legend on and off-screen." She also defied racist demands back in the ’50s when the television world was not receptive to people of colour. She was highly criticized after having a black tap dancer, Arthur Duncan on her 1954 variety show. Her response to the criticism was “I’m sorry, live with it.” Betty continued to give Arthur more airtime on her show which led to it getting canceled. But that didn’t deter her spirit or Kill her screen career. On the contrary, Betty got more popular and beloved the older she got. She once said that the immense support people showed her surprised her as well. “It’s incredible you can stay in a career this long and still have people put up with you. I wish they did that at home.” Betty said in an appearance at the 2018 Emmy Awards ceremony, where she was honored for her long career.. She was also a champion for animal welfare. Her dues for her fan club Bet's Pets, went to animal rescue charities, and she received many accolades for her work for animals. Hollywood and the world at large mourns Betty for the incredible and phenomenal human being that she was. Edited by S. Maombo.