The Kwale mnazi (palm brew) traders want the government to recognise their business and create a conducive environment for it to thrive. They said the business has the potential of contributing millions of shillings to the economy, if supported. Led by Elizabeth Mangale Medza, the local brew sellers want to be allowed to freely sell their products just like alcohol is sold in bars and restaurants. "We are pleading with the government to value the mnazi wine and let it be sold without restrictions," she said. According to Medza, they are always in conflict with police officers who launch frequent crackdowns on illicit brews in villages. Medza said they are tired of hiding and want the government to legalise it for local brew sellers and consumers to be at peace. Mnazi wine has faced a lot of challenges in being recognised. The traditional wine has often been associated with social vices among the families found along the coastal belt. It is believed that many families have broken up due to mnazi abuse by men and women who spend their time in local brew joints known as 'mangweni'. Some people have been reported to have deserted work because of mnazi addiction. Many children are also said to have joined crime and moved to the streets because addicted parents could not pay school fees and cater for their basic needs. In an efforts to regulate the consumption of the wine, the government directed that it should be sold between 5pm and 11pm. According to Kinango OCPD Fredrick Ombaka, there are also a number of regulations that the sellers must comply with, one of which is the manner in which the mnazi is brewed, stored and sold. He said police only arrest the ones found violating the regulations but doesn't harass anyone. But the Mnazi sellers and users have maintained that the traditional drink is less harmful and should be permitted to operate like any other business. Medza said the Mnazi can't be compared with Mugoka that is damaging youth's lives in the region. She said it is disrespectful to legalise the use of Mugoka whose negative effects are known to the public and going hard on Mnazi that is harmless. Medza said she has been doing Mnazi business for over 10 years and it has helped her fend for the family. "This business is paying for my children's school fees, feeds and clothes them. Where will I get money if it is disrupted?" Dzombo Mnazi supplier Samuel Katana said despite having licenses, doing Mnazi business is hard as the sellers and users are always hunted by security officers. He said they want the government to streamline the regulations and issuance of permits for Mnazi sellers for the business to thrive. Katana said it is time for sanity to be brought in the Mnazi business sector for both traders and customers to be protected from any form of harassment. He said coconut liquor is the safest wine because it is consumed directly from the tree and doesn't contain any chemicals unlike some alcoholic drinks. "We don't add anything, there are no alterations and customers are served with fresh coconut wine," he said. Katana sells at least six jerricans of 20 litres of Mnazi daily but claims he can't save because all money is spent on police bails. Paulo Tsuma Mumbo said despite having so many coconut trees, he doesn't benefit from them. He said the coconut business is down and the only way to get profit is through Mnazi alcohol that does not sell because of too many restrictions. An activist Mwakuyala Mohammed said by completely removing hurdles affecting Mnazi business, it will trigger the growth of the coconut sector that has dwindled for long in the region. He said local farmers will embark on commercial growing of coconut trees knowing there is a market for its products. Mohammed said apart from economic benefits, Mnazi drinking is a culture that must be preserved. He said in many Mijikenda marriages, Mnazi wine plays a major part in completing the family union. Mnazi is normally included as part of the dowry to please elders where it can either be put in a pot or drunk in small cups known as mbokos. The Mnazi is most popular in the coastal region because it is cheap and readily available.    -Edited by SKanyara