Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya says he trusts in his young squad's potential to pull off a major surprise this season. Muluya made the remarks after his charges registered an emphatic 3-0 win over pre-match favourites Sofapaka at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi on Sunday. Boniface Onyango opened the floodgates in the 17th minute before Fortune Omoto doubled the advantage in the 85th minute. Felix Oluoch then found the back of the net in stoppage time to send his goal tally to nine this season, effectively affirming his status as a leading Golden Boot contender. The outcome fired Sharks to second on the Kenyan Premier League log with 28 points, four adrift leaders Kakamega Homeboyz, who embark on their second leg campaign against Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Monday afternoon. “We have experienced a tough season, characterised by injuries and it's quite encouraging to witness this kind of splendid performance,” said Muluya. “It's a clear indication that we only need to believe in ourselves to attain the heights we so much desire.” The gaffer, however, chose to remain coy about their chances of nudging the more fancied sides to run away with the title, reiterating that their desire is to bag maximum points in the remaining matches. “I wouldn't want to delve much into our chances at the title at this stage, given that we still have a lot of matches ahead of us," said Muluya. “All I can tell my players is that we should take each match at a time so that we don't let the excitement of title contention draw our attention from the most important thing, which is to win each of our subsequent fixtures.” AFC Leopards rallied from behind to beat Mathare United 2-1 at Nyayo Stadium. Leopards head gaffer Patrick Aussems said he was happy that Nigerian striker Ojo Olaniyi had eventually found his magic in front of goal after shooting blanks for the better part of the season. “I'm glad he has finally begun scoring after going for six matches without a goal. We had talked about it and he seemed distraught,” said Aussems. Bidco United held record champions Gor Mahia to a one-all draw at Thika Stadium. Soldiers Ulinzi Stars and law enforcers, Kenya Police shared spoils in a four-goal thriller at ASK Grounds in Nakuru. FC Talanta and Nzoia Sugar also settled for a 2-2 draw while KCB edged Posta Rangers 2-1 at Utalii Grounds.