Famers in Embu have been urged to embrace organic farming and soil testing for better crops and livestock production. Hundreds of farmers gathered at Kanja chief's camp in Embu East on Monday for training by different companies. The farmers were advised on best farming methods to adopt in order to maintain high production. Present were Embu East Agriculture officer Stephen Njagi, Golden Power Coin- an organic farm inputs generating company, Fadhili Africa- Agro-cares and bio gas experts representative. Golden Power Coin director Joe Kariuki said organic farming will benefit not only the farmers but also the customers. "We encourage farmers to embrace organic farming as this will help in healthy eating since there will be minimised chemicals intake. "Our concern is not only production but also health wise we'll have dealt with health challenges related to chemical consumption," he said. He further advised farmers to consider improving their farm soil fertility to ensure enough production for their families. "Good farming will ensure Embu county attains food security which is among President Kenyatta Big Four agenda and farmers should engage in the right farming practices to achieve that. "We know upper Embu is characterised by coffee and tea production but we urge them to set aside portions for other food crops," Kariuki said. He said soil infertility in Embu is among the main reasons for deteriorated production. Kariuki said organic inputs will help maintain the soil over long periods unlike chemicals which are short term and wiped out over short period. Soil testing expert and Agro-cares representative Winfred Wanjira, said most farmers don't know their soil pH and this has contributed in deteriorated production. Wanjira said soil from upper Embu has a high pH compared to the lower part due to chemical inputs. She said farmers need to conduct soil testing to understand what they need for their soil. "The use of organic matter helps in maintaining important soil structure and stability of the soil colloids. This helps soils to hold water for long and helps crops maintain good health all season," Wanjira added. She said farmers should ensure they test their soil to determine their nitrogen, phosphorus, organic matter, pH, cation exchange and potassium levels. Alice Murugi a bio gas expert urged farmers to adapt bio gas as its by products contains organic components used in farming. Biogas is a mixture of gases produced from raw materials of agricultural waste, green waste, food waste and other decomposing wastes. "Biogas by product called bioslurry helps in maintaining good soil fertility and doesn't contain chemicals. It also reduces acidity in the soil and in crops grown," she said. Embu East Agriculture head Stephen Njagi said it is upon the farmers to embrace the experts advise as this will improve their productivity and help them benefit from their daily hard work. Jacob Njagi, a farmer from Kanja South said that soil testing is important to farmers but the high cost of the exercise is proving a disaster. "Conducting soil testing is a challenge because it is costly and most us cannot afford," Njagi said. He urged the county government to intervene and help farmers conduct soil testing to ensure farmers realise full potential of their farms. According to International Trade Administration, Kenya has agriculture products taking the centre stage of the most exported products. This covers 40 per cent of overall workforce, 70 per cent of rural workforce and 25 per cent of the annual workforce. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)