Deputy President William Ruto is plotting major political firepower in the battle to control the capital city, targeting at least half of the constituencies. The Star has established that Ruto’s strategists have mapped the city’s electoral areas and hope to dwarf ODM boss Raila Odinga’s dominance of Nairobi politics. Ruto has dedicated six days to tour the county estates as he seeks to popularise his presidential bid and market his UDA aspirants. Ruto’s UDA think-tank is scheming how to take over Nairobi gubernatorial seat amid a major challenge from Raila’s Azimio la Umoja troops. It has emerged that Ruto is keen on Kasarani, Roysambu, Kamkunji, Dagorreti South, Lang’ata, Embakasi South, Embakasi North, Embakasi Central and Embakasi West. Nairobi has 17 constituencies. The DP’s team is scheming on how to capture the Senate seat, to control the city politics against Raila. “We have mapped the whole county and believe that we shall deliver as many seats as possible but not less than half,”  former Starehe MP Bishop Margret Wanjiru said. Wanjiru who is running for Nairobi governor said the UDA outfit has the necessary political goodwill and support across the county to upstage rivals in the August 9, general election. “The hustlers in Nairobi have decided that its UDA and, in their thousands, will come out to vote for UDA aspirants,” she said. Raila’s Azimio brigade are seeking to affirm his dominance in Nairobi politics especially after receiving the backing of President Uhuru. There are reports that Raila’s ODM party, which is working on a coalition plan with Uhuru’s Jubilee outfit will agree on a formula to share power. On Friday, Ruto concentrated on Kasarani and Rosyambu constituencies on his second day running for his presidential campaigns, asking voters to elect UDA aspirants. The DP was accompanied by aspirants seeking UDA tickets for various elective seats. Sustaining his forays, the DP promised to revolutionalise the National Hospital Insurance Fund to benefit hustlers. The DP told the poor not to worry about NHIF contributions, saying if elected, they will start to reap benefits by December. Speaking during his presidential campaigns' stopovers the DP said the current NHIF scheme is tailored to benefit the rich. ” Ruto said his administration will ensure that there is fairness in the NHIF contributions so that those who earn more, pay more to access the public insurance programme. The DP said he will roll out a massive health security programme for all Kenyans to ensure, every Kenyan gets enrolled in the NHIF scheme before the end of the year. “There is no way Mama Mboga can pay the same amount as the deputy president, by the end of the year we will ensure that Kenyans will pay according to their income,” Ruto said. “Those who will not afford, the government will pay for them.” Ruto has heightened his campaigns across the vote-rich Nairobi county, taking his campaigns to city estates in a fierce battle against Raila. The DP rubbished Raila's claim that he is just dishing out handouts to Kenyans saying he will roll out a massive Sh50 billion kitty to support small businesses. “The Sh2 million Raila is talking about, is just a drop in the ocean, we will pump Sh50 billion to these hustlers once we form the government,” Ruto said at Githurai 44. The campaign trails were characterised by the DP's pledges to Kenyans and numerous attacks aimed at President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. Ruto said his priority, if elected president, will be to turn around the economy to ensure a decent lifestyle for all. He accused Raila of instilling fear and entrenching ethnic politics. “They are telling us to prioritise the change of constitution and accommodate more people in the government by creating more positions,” Ruto said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris