Six matches will be on the card this weekend as the Kenya Women's Premier League enters matchday four. Even though the season is still in its infancy, former champions Vihiga Queens, who host Kisumu All-Starlets on Saturday at Mumias, have underlined their intentions of toppling champions Thika Queens after picking maximum points in their opening three matches. Wins against Nakuru Queens, Ulinzi, and Trans-Nzoia Falcons have propelled the county-sponsored side to the top of the WPL standings with nine points. On the other hand, Kisumu rose from the ashes to dismantle newbies Kangemi Ladies 6-0 on Tuesday, recording their first win of the season after firing blanks against Gaspo and Zetech Sparks. However, Vihiga will provide a stern test. Defending champions Thika, who surprisingly lost to Bunyore Starlets 2-1 at Mumboha grounds on Matchday Two, have an arduous task against Nakuru at the ASK grounds. The Benta Achieng-coached Thika found their shooting boots in their 3-0 demolition of Gaspo on Wednesday with Wincate Kaari and Rebecca Okwaro on target. Despite the mass exodus of players from Nakuru, they look competitive and their prime target is to avoid relegation. Ulinzi will look to get their campaign back on track when they tackle Bunyore Starlets at Ruaraka. The soldiers have garnered just a point in the last two matches and coach Joseph Mwanza is concerned after the 0-0 drab draw with Wadadia, Wednesday. Ulinzi have failed to score in two straight matches and should they extend that record on Saturday, it will be the first time in history they have failed to score in three matches in a row since gaining promotion to the top tier in 2020. Bunyore have a perfect winning record at home but they must grind points away to guarantee safety. Winless Kangemi will target Kayole's scalp. The tail-enders are enduring a torrid start to the season despite the optimism when they won promotion last year. Elsewhere on Sunday, Falcons of Trans-Nzoia welcome Wadadia at ASK ground as Zetech Sparks host Gaspo at Gems Cambridge, Ngong Road.