Employees in public facilities will now be required to show proof of vaccination against Covid-19 by producing a certificate. Others who will be required to produce proof of vaccination include service seekers in the premises that attract large numbers of people. The premises include restaurants, bars, hotels, banks, eateries, supermarkets and churches, among others. This is according to a notice released by the Nyeri county director of health services Nelson Muriu dated January 2, 2022. “The county of Nyeri in collaboration with the national government will carry out multiagency inspection and enforcement from time to time,” the notice reads in part. It further said that chiefs, their assistants, public health officers and community health volunteers will monitor all public gatherings within their areas to ensure Covid-19 prevention measures are observed. Residents were encouraged to visit vaccination sites for the jab. A mobile vaccination team has for some time been stationed at the busy Gakere street in Nyeri town administering the vaccine. Others encouraged to go for the jab include children aged 15 and above who are eligible to receive the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine. They will be required to use their birth certificate or National Education Management Information System number for registration. “The Nyeri county department of Health would like to notify the general public that booster doses are available to all persons who are fully vaccinated and have completed six months after the second dose,” Muriu said. The notice further said that as of Sunday, the county had recorded 5446 cases of Covid-19 and 308 deaths. Some 149 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Currently, there are 83 patients admitted in our isolation facilities, 26 of whom are on supplemental oxygen, the notice read. A total of 218,917, which is 51 per cent, and 161, 439 persons, which is 37 per cent have received their first and second dose of Covid-19 vaccine respectively. The county has been administering the vaccine in 129 vaccination sites in the county and the same is further complemented through outreaches and moonlight vaccination strategies. The guidelines which Muriu said were with guidance from the county Covid-19 Intergovernmental Committee and in line with the Health ministry protocols, are meant to mitigate the spread of the disease. Muriu is also the secretary of the county Integrated Covid-19 Committee.  (edited by Amol Awuor)