A group of young women supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga have asked politicians to desist from making utterances that can cause panic and despondency among Kenyans. 'Daughters of Raila' Rift Valley chapter coordinator Prisca Nchoe said leaders should put the interests of the country before their own. She said they should practice mature politics that can be emulated by future generations. “There is a need for politicians to weigh their words while making public utterances lest they cause unnecessary tribal tension among Kenyans,” Nchoe said. She spoke during a meeting in Narok over the weekend. Nchoe said leaders should promote cohesion and national values to build  a healthy and united nation devoid of tribalism. “We don’t want a recurrence of the 2007-08 post-election violence. As leaders, we need to preach peace and unity among all the people regardless of tribe, race or clan,” the coordinator said. Lorna Kisaka said some leaders engage in political squabbles at the expense of development. "We implore all politicians to be mindful of their utterances and actions,” she said. Kisaka said nobody has the power to threaten the other that he or she cannot live anywhere in the country. “We need to build a united country that will accommodate all the people instead of dividing them along tribal lines. The Constitution protects every individual,” she said. Kisaka said tribal politics does not add value to Kenyans. “The leaders must be selective in the words they use for the sake of the unity of purpose,” she said. The group also urged Kenyans to register as voters in large numbers. They urged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to introduce mobile registration centres, especially in areas where pastoralist communities reside. They said most of them are on the move to look for pasture and water from their animals. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said the second phase of the enhanced continuous voter registration will begin on January 17 and end on February 6, 2022. "This will be the second and final phase of the enhanced continuous voter registration in preparation for the general election," he said. Chebukati said this was made possible after the commission received additional funding from the Treasury. He said the drive will also include diaspora registration, which will begin on January 21 and end on February 6. "ECVR two will also augment the right to register as a voter for Kenyans living in diaspora in addition to Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa, which participated in the 2017 general election." Countries that have been included in diaspora registration and voting include the United Kingdom, Canada, United States, South Sudan, Qatar, UAE and Germany. Edited by A.N