ODM leader Raila Odinga on Friday rallied youths in his Nyanza backyard to turn up in large numbers and register as voters. Raila who argued that the economic agenda will mostly benefit the youth, lectured them on laxity to be listed. "My rivals are having their people register as voters in large numbers because they have taken the presidential race in 2022 seriously. When I walk out there I am embarrassed because of the manner in which you are not taking this matter seriously," he said. He was speaking in Homa Bay town after he commissioned water project worth sh1.6billion. “Do you want me to quit the race? If you do not register in numbers, then I do not see the reason why I should contest. We have to take this matter seriously and register," Raila said. IEBC is conducting final voter listing ahead of August elections. Many politicians including presidential aspirants are urging their supporters to register as voters. Raila said he has the best economic agenda for Kenyans and therefore should be voted overwhelmingly on August 9, this year. “I want our eligible youths to turn out and register to their numbers as voters. Our economic revolution is aim to better the lives of the youth,” Raila said. The ODM leader rallied the residents to enlist themselves and support the Azimio La Umoja movement IEBC is targeting more than 112,000 people in Homa Bay to register as voters ahead of the elections. By Thursday, only 1,240 people had registered. The Azimio La Umoja presidential aspirant said he his contesting the seat to enable him improve the living standards of Kenyans. “Many of you urged me during the Azimio La Umoja tour of the country to go and seek presidency in August 2022. I expected you register as many as voters but I'm getting demoralized with the sluggishness trend I see in you in taking voters cards,” he added. Raila also highlighted his 10 points agenda including the Baba-care and social protection describing himself as the best person to transform Kenya’s economy. The former premier said he has the capacity on grounds that his track-record speaks for itself.