Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said he will ensure ANC party boss Musalia Mudavadi joins Azimio La Umoja to support ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid. He said Mudavadi stands a better chance of taking the leadership of the country from Raila if he supports the ODM boss in this year's polls. The lawmaker said if Mudavadi joins Azimio La Umoja, Raila will stand a better chance of beating Deputy President William Ruto in the election. “He [Mudavadi] is not sure if Ruto will pass the baton to him, but in Raila’s camp we are 100 per cent sure,” Savula said. He said he would spearhead discussions to ensure Mudavadi is not left in a political desert as they go into the general election. However, Mudavadi’s allies have said the ANC party boss will go all the way to the ballot to ensure the Luhya political dignity is restored. Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala while at Mumboha grounds said Mudavadi should square it out with others on the ballot. Savula said Mudavadi with his political experience, can only work with Raila and DP Ruto. Savula said his decision to join Azimio La Umoja was to ensure he does not lose in the forthcoming general election. The lawmaker said Azimio La Umoja is the team that will form the next government and he wants to be part of the government. Speaking to the Star on the phone, he said no politician wishes to lose and they always want to join the winning team. The MP said the 2022 presidential contest is a two-horse race between Raila and Ruto. “Currently, political forces are between Raila’s camp and Ruto’s camp. One of the two will be the President,” Savula said. Savula served as ANC deputy party leader. Until his time of defection, he had shown interest in the Kakamega governor's seat. The MP also announced that he has ceased any engagements with the One Kenya Alliance. Other candidates who have declared interest in succeeding Governor Wycliffe Oparanya are Philip Kutima, Ferdinand Barasa and Boni Khalwale. If Savula joins the Kakamega governor's race, they will have to square it out during the nominations to have one candidate who will face Khalwale. 