Businessman Jimi Wanjigi has termed Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka a hero to Kenyans, signalling a possible entry into the Wiper political fold. Wanjigi, a former ally of ODM boss Raila Odinga has broken ranks with the Orange party over his aggressive push for the outfit's presidential flag. The businessman, on Saturday, attended a meeting by Wiper leader at his Yatta home and trashed Raila as a dictator. Although Wanjigi never directly responded to Kalonzo’s request for him to ditch ODM for the Wiper party, he left no doubt on his political direction. “My time will reach and I will come back to this place, support us,” he said. The businessman asked Ukambani leaders to stand firmly behind Kalonzo. “The person who has united the Kamba community is Kalonzo and he hasn’t said that he is retiring from politics. Support him and get rid of those who want to divide you,” Wanjigi said. “Don’t be cheated by anybody that there are no numbers in Ukambani, you have the numbers. Kalonzo is a man who will honour his word.” Kalonzo told Wanjigi to ditch ODM for Wiper so that they work together in the quest to form the next government. “Jimi, you are my longtime friend. Please come to Wiper and join Oka,” Kalonzo told Wanjigi. Although he ducked the invitation, Wanjigi said Raila won’t make new political friends that he can use and dump every time. “I’m very clear in my politics, there is a season for everything and you can’t keep having a season of Raila Amolo Odinga,” he said. He accused the ODM boss of political dishonesty saying he had failed to live by his word not to contest for the presidency again after 2017. “There is a great man called Martin Luther King who said we don’t make history, we are made by history. My brother Raila Odinga is my friend and he hasn’t wronged me,” Wanjigi said. “However, the Raila I watch on TV is not the one who fought for the democracy of this nation, who fought for the common mwananchi until he was detained fighting for the country’s liberation.” The businessman said he was being denied his right to seek the ODM presidential flag yet he has all the credentials. “They are advertising themselves and if somebody advertises himself, it’s no joke. That’s him. Stephen, God bless you. We wish you the very best,” he said. “I’m only asking one thing in ODM, democracy. And if it’s impossible, we supported ODM more than some of those who claim to be the insiders.” Kalonzo said Oka was intact and he will be on the ballot as a presidential candidate. “I’m ready to take the bullet for you. I can’t make it alone, I need you to walk with me,” Kalonzo told Ukambani leaders. Edited by Kiilu Damaris