Migori Governor Okoth Obado has hinted he will only support an insider from his administration to succeed him. He said there are several development projects he has left to Migori residents that other aspirants from outside his administration might disrupt and rubbish. “If you have benefitted from several projects in my administration for the past two terms, then the most correct thing is we get somebody who will carry on with the same spirit,” Obado said on Tuesday at Migori County Stadium. He said it will be sad for Migori people to elect a governor "who will come here and rubbish things. We can decide on who will inherit my seat, and you [resident] are my soldiers and will make sure we get the right candidate”. He was speaking when he met beneficiaries of ‘Masomo kwa Wananchi’ project which has been offering full scholarships to needy students in the past eight years. Ten Migori legislators and Senator Ochillo Ayacko were invited to the event, but they did not show up. “We have people who are naysayers in Migori and will never accept when we have positive development in the county. These are the people who should not lead Migori,” Obado said. County secretary Christopher Rusana, speaker Boaz Okoth and Energy executive Rebecca Maroa said leaders who skipped the function should not be voted in. The three are seeking to succeed Obado. “We have elected leaders who skipped this function because they don’t like such programmes. We will not allow that. We seek the governor's post to double the effort done by Obado,” Rusana said. Maroa said the foundation left by Obado should only be enriched by an insider. Despite Obado defecting from ODM to People Democratic Party and supporting Deputy President William Ruto, Rusana and Okoth have said they will seek the ODM ticket. Maroa will seek the UDA ticket. Others seeking to succeed Obado are Senator Ayacko, Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo, former MP John Pesa, businessman Philip Mwabe and former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno. Edited by A.N