When it comes to improving your health, sleeping naked is not the first thing you think has an impact but it might have some benefits that might be too good to ignore. A 2012 study from the National Institute of Health found that the temperature of the room where you sleep is one of the most important factors in achieving quality sleep. In fact, researchers say that sleeping in an overly warm room makes your dreams more vivid causing nightmares. If it is too cold or too hot, you risk impacting your rapid eye movement sleep which is the dream stage of sleep that helps refresh your brain and body. Depending on your bedding, sleeping naked could bring your body heat down to the perfect temperature for quality sleep. Giving you little interruption of sleep that comes with cloth removal during those hot nights. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also links sleep deprivation to many health conditions including Type 2 diabetes, heart and blood vessel disease, obesity and stress and depression. It is no secret that poor sleep has a major impact on your stress level, it is important to remember to improve your sleep quality by getting enough sleep. Sleeping naked has been shown to increase the ability to fall asleep faster and stay asleep, which could make all the difference when it comes to your health. VAGINAL HEALTH Women are also advised to sleep naked or without tight-fitting innerwear as it is a great way to increase vaginal health and avoid yeast infections. Tight fittings and sweaty underwear increase the chances of yeast infections since yeasts like to grow in warm, moist places. Regardless of what you wear during the day, sleeping naked is an easy way to air “the girls” out. Women apparently aren’t the only ones who benefit from sleeping naked. A recent study of 656 males suggested a link between wearing tight-fitting underwear and low sperm count. Men who reported wearing boxers had a higher sperm concentration and total sperm count than those who wore tight underwear. Sleeping naked is a great way to keep the testicles cool and at optimum temperature for sperm health. It is also a great way to boost your self-esteem as you get in touch with your body. A study found that spending time naked helps to boost ones overall self-image, which is a win when it comes to self-love. While sex can be a good part of your relationship, sleeping naked with your partner can be just as wonderful. A study discovered that skin to skin contact between adults stimulates the release of oxytocin, a hormone that plays an important role in building attachments between partners. When it comes to sleep, the most important thing is that you take the steps to ensure you are getting enough sleep. You reap the benefits of a lower risk for serious health problems, like diabetes and heart disease, reduced stress and improved mood. You also think more clearly and do better in school and at work as well as get along better with people because you are less grumpy. For those who are not comfortable sleeping completely naked, at least reduce the number of layers you wear at night, ditch that bra or underwear- an easy way to take advantage of the benefits. Edited by D Tarus