Police say terrorism, land squabbles and local politics are to blame for the recent killings and attacks witnessed in parts of Lamu county recently. At least seven people have been killed by suspected Al Shabaab militants in Lamu in the last one week and several houses torched. Last Sunday, six people were killed by suspected Al Shabaab militants at Witho shopping centre in Lamu East. Four people were set ablaze inside the Murimi Mangwe drinking den and burnt beyond recognition. They were identified as the den owner John Murimi and his three workers: Peter Musyoka, Maina Wanjege and Peter Maina. Their hands were tied from behind. The fifth person identified as Joseph Mwangi, who is also Witho village elder, was stabbed multiple times in the stomach. He was later beheaded and his house torched. The sixth casualty, identified as Francis Kamau, had mysteriously disappeared on Sunday morning before his body was found along the road in Witho shopping centre with gunshot wounds to the head. Another victim, John Gichoya of Bobo-Sunkia village, had his hands and legs bound behind his back before he was slaughtered by the suspected militants. His house was set ablaze with the body inside on Monday night, just a day after the six were killed. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said the investigations were focusing around the three areas as the major cause of the unrest. He said it would be too early to pinpoint a specific area as the real cause of the recent killings in the region and called for calm as security officers work around the clock to solve the mystery. The county commissioner called on members of the public to cooperate with police and surrender any information that would help unearth the identities of those behind the attacks and their motives. He also confirmed that nine people have so far been arrested in connection with the recent killings and are being interrogated. Meanwhile, Lamu leaders have called for speedy investigations into the recent attacks and killings that left seven people dead and houses torched by suspected Shabaab militants. Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama expressed his displeasure over the killing of innocent citizens in Witho and Bobo villages while property, including houses torched by the assailants. Muthama praised security officers for responding swiftly to the attacks, and thereby averting possible massacres in the areas. He called on security agencies to ensure all the culprits are brought to book. “ To the people of Lamu West, let’s be vigilant and report any suspicious persons to the authorities,” Muthama said. At the same time, security officers in Lamu are still searching for two men abducted by suspected Al Shabab militants at Kibokoni area, Lamu West on Tuesday. Initially, three men, all wine tappers, had been abducted by the militants at around 5pm before one of them broke loose and fled from his captors. He reported the incident to the police. They were captured as they went to check their wine traps inside the Boni forest when they came face to face with the militants. (edited by Amol Awuor)