Former Vihiga county chief officer for medical services Arnold Mamadi  says traditional vegetables are a source of revenue if done on large scale or beyond conception lines. These vegetables include cowpeas, saga, managu and terere. Mamadi said apart from being an income generation option for most families in remote counties, these vegetables have a huge number of benefits in terms of health. “People who eat more vegetables as part of their overall healthy diet are likely to have a reduced risk of chronic diseases,” Mamadi said. Chronic diseases are lifestyle complications, and they are the leading causes of disability and death. They include heart disease, cancer, diabetes, stroke and arthritis, among other complications. Mamadi says vegetables provide nutrients vital for health and maintenance of the human body at large. “Nutrients found in most of the vegetables produced in rural areas are naturally low in fat and calories,” he said. Vegetables are important sources of many nutrients, including potassium, dietary fibre, folate (folic acid), vitamin A and vitamin C. Mamadi said vegetables rich in potassium may help to maintain healthy blood pressure. These include sweet potatoes, white potatoes, white beans, tomato products (paste, sauce and juice), beet greens, soybeans, lima beans, spinach, lentils and kidney beans. Dietary fibre from vegetables, as part of an overall healthy diet, helps reduce blood cholesterol levels and may lower the risk of heart disease. Mamadi said fibre is important for proper bowel function and it helps to reduce constipation and diverticulosis. Fibre-containing foods, such as vegetables, help to provide a feeling of fullness with fewer calories. Folate (folic acid) helps the body form red blood cells. “Women of childbearing age who may become pregnant should consume adequate folate from foods, and in addition, 400 mcg of synthetic folic acid from fortified foods or supplements,” he added. This reduces the risk of neural tube defects, spina bifida and anencephaly during foetal development. Mamadi says Vitamin A keeps eyes and skin healthy and helps to protect against infections. Vitamin C helps heal cuts and wounds and keeps teeth and gums healthy. Vitamin C aids in iron absorption.