The local authority in Kwale has urged residents to support the ban on night disco Matangas. The ban, which was imposed some years back to enhance security, has faced condemnation from the residents in the region. According to county commissioner Gideon Oyagi, majority of the residents feel oppressed by the ban and are resentful. He said the residents are accusing the county security officers of being harsh and denying them their rights to "enjoy life". The commissioner said the ban is only meant for security purposes and to protect children from sexual exploitation and drugs menace. "Banning night discos is for you and your children's safety, and not to fight you or culture," he said. In Kwale, weddings and disco matanga are not only used as entertainment but as a sign of dignity. People compete to bring the best taarab bands or discos to light up their weddings. But it has now emerged that discos are the hotbed of insecurity, fuelling crimes like rape, assault, murder and burglaries. Last year, the region recorded more than 9,000 teen pregnancies. However, some residents are opposed to the ban, and want it lifted, while others are defying the order. Oyagi urged the residents to cooperate in enhancing security, rather than faulting the police officers for doing their job. He said the community should consider the positive part of the ban in improving security, curbing teen pregnancies, among other social ills. He said social vices have taken different forms and people must be watchful to spot and stop them. The administrator called on parents to take up their responsibilities  saying, "Let's protect our children against engaging in immoral activities." Oyagi warned youth against participating in crimes, saying that law will catch up with them. He told students to concentrate on their studies to amass knowledge and change their lives. At the same time, he ordered chiefs and their assistants to ensure all students have reported back to school. He said despite the challenges, they should try hard to keep the children in schools for their own benefit. He also said the county has outlined appropriate measures ahead of the national exams set to start in March this year. (edited by Amol Awuor)