Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi has said he will build on the successes of his boss if elected governor. He said Ongwae’s record in uplifting the livelihoods of the residents was an open book. “Ongwae has done extremely well, let's wish him well. Much of what is required now is to build on what he has already done,” the deputy governor said. Maangi joins Senator Sam Ongeri and Woman Rep Janet Ongera in battling it out for the ODM party ticket. He is, however, yet to pick his team. Ongera has already signalled her readiness to back Maangi in the spirit of Gucha alliance. The alliance has fronted CAS Infrastructure Chris Obure, Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati and Maangi for the race. Senator Sam Ongeri, Rachel Otundo, Ezekiel Machogu and Charles Matoke are said to be from the Kisii Central region which consists of Nyaribari and Kitutu regions where outgoing Governor James Ongwae hails from. The Gucha alliance is currently selling the narrative that it is now their turn to govern. On Friday, Maangi told his competitors from the region to forgo their bids for the sake of a Gucha alliance candidate. “We are doing this with honest intentions. As Gucha we had given them a two-term with Ongwae who has done well in his development portfolio. Let them now give us a chance,” Maangi said. The sentiments were made during an Azimio la Kina Mama forum in Marani, Kitutu Chache North. The function was attended by ward reps and woman rep Janet Ongera. Ongera and Maangi had been campaigning together in the spirit of the Gucha alliance spirit. Ongeri did not attend the function. Ongwae has already said he will not endorse any contestant for the top seat. “I  would only provide an enabling space for all those interested in the seat,” he said in Tendere on Sunday last week. Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu has since rubbished the Gucha alliance narrative saying the electorate has the right to vote for any candidate. “We don't want our people to be sold such fake narrations. We must be sensitive to the aspirations of our people,” he told the Star. On Friday, Maangi said he has walked with Ongwae for two terms and it would be okay if he was promoted to higher office. Janet Ongera is ready to go slow on her bid for a strong Gucha candidate. “If all that is needed to secure this seat so be it,” she said. When called to comment on the move by the Gucha alliance team bid, Senator Ongeri did not pick calls. Edited by Kiilu Damaris