Chocolate Oreo cakes are to die for especially if you have a sweet tooth. This specific recipe ensures you get a moist chocolate cake filled with creamy Oreo frosting and topped with more crushed Oreo frosting and full Oreos. A total Oreo lover’s dream! INGREDIENTS For the cake For the frosting NOTE: If you plan on decorating the outside of the cake with more Oreos, you'll need another package aside from the ones you crushed. Method CAKE: Preheat the oven to 350°F. Prepare a round baking tin, by lining the bottom with parchment paper, and greasing the sides. In a large mixing bowl, add the sugar, vegetable oil, eggs, and vanilla extract. Beat on medium speed until the eggs and oil blend in nicely and the batter is lighter in colour. Next, add the sour cream and mix until well combined. In a separate bowl, sift and add all the dry ingredients and whisk them. Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients bowl and whisk until the batter is well combined and there are no visible lumps. Pour the batter into your baking tin ensuring not overfill it. Bake at 300 degrees for around 30-35 minutes. To check if the cake is well done insert a toothpick into the center of the cake. If the toothpick comes out clean, your cake is done. Remove from the oven and allow to cool completely. FROSTING: Cut the butter into pieces and mix it with shortening, whisk the two until they're smooth. Slowly add the powdered sugar, and whisk until smooth. Add vanilla essence, heavy whipping cream, and oreo crumbs intermittently, mixing at low speed until they're incorporated into the butter. Add milk and continue mixing until you get a smooth consistency. Remove the cake from the baking tin, cut the risen middle part of your cake (cake dome) with a serrated knife, and set it aside. And place the cake on a rack. Pipe the first layer of frosting, in circles working outside edge to the middle. Spread evenly with an offset spatula. Press any excess frosting onto the edges of the cake using your spatula. To finish, pipe the frosting along the outside edge of the cake using a large open round tip or a cake icer tip. Then use an offset spatula or icing smoother to create a smooth edge. Use the remaining pack of Oreos to garnish. Serve and enjoy.