Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici has said that Mt Kenya region might produce a Deputy President in the 2022 general elections, only if it plays its cards well. In a post through her Twitter account on Wednesday evening, Ngirici said that the region has the numbers to determine the next president. “We as Mt Kenya might produce a DP but we’ll only be sure that he/she shall be respected if we have a solid coalition… We might not be producing a President in 2022 but we have the numbers to determine who becomes the President,” Ngirici said. She said that the region will work and support the person to be the DP only after being assured that the candidate will be respected if the region has a solid coalition. The MP added that the interests of Mt Kenya cannot be dictated by outsiders. “It's only through partnerships and election of independent-minded leaders that Mt. Kenya will benefit.” She also added that the same agenda is being shared by Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui, Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi, Nark leader Martha Karua, Moses Kuria, and former Kiambu Governor William Kavogo. According to her, some ideologies of some of the political parties from the region are being referred to as tribal arrangements, the comments which target the DP William Ruto. Ngirici has been a close ally to Ruto until December last year when she ditched UDA and declared to vie for Kirinyaga County's top seat as an Independent Candidate. The move came after Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru joined Ruto’s team, saying that she will be seeking to defend her seat under UDA. After the exit from UDA, Ngirici wiped out all signs, colours, and symbols associated with the party from all her campaign materials. The Star established that her Kerugoya-based private office gate wall has been repainted in white and black. The office was previously branded with the party's yellow, and green colours, a wheelbarrow and inscribed with the party’s slogan. The office was designated as the county’s party headquarters. Her campaign truck, mini-vehicles, and sound system truck which were all heavily branded with UDA campaign posters have also been peeled off.