Record Kenya Women's Premier League champions, Vihiga Queens, feature prominently on the list of teams nominated for the Women Sports Team of the Year 2021 awards. The winners of the coveted accolade will be feted at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega county on January 25. The Legacy Makers rose to prominence following a stellar performance on the regional front where they overcame an ensemble of more fancied opponents to bag the inaugural Cecafa –cum-CAF Champions League qualifier in Nairobi last November. Their remarkable run secured them a dream debut at the CAF Champions League in Egypt where they proved their mettle against household names, among them River Angels of Nigeria and Malabo Queens from Equatorial Guinea. The Vihiga county-sponsored side boast of a host of highly rated luminaries including free-scoring striker, Jentrix Shikangwa. This year's event has received immense support from the Kakamega County, Lotto Foundation, CPF Financial Services, National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and Safaricom. The women's national volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, who were Africa's sole representatives at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics have also made the cut for the accolade. Despite emerging from the tournament empty-handed after enduring a winless streak in their tough encounters, the Kenyan lasses made the country proud by pushing most of the top teams to the edge. Their splendid exploits at the court earned them plaudits from impressed gaffers of rival teams who unanimously agreed that with more exposure, Kenya possessed the potential to scale greater heights. “With more exposure, Malkia will soon be winning sets if not matches against the top volleyball sides in the world,” quipped one of the tacticians. Upon their return from Japan, Malkia proceeded to Rwanda for the Africa Nations Championships. They experienced a torrid start to the tournament where they fell to Cameroon in their opening encounter. Malkia, however, bounced back strongly in their subsequent outings to romp into finals where they once again crashed to their nemesis Cameroon. Despite the heart-wrenching defeat, Kenya breathed easy after cementing a place at the 2022 World Cup that will be co-hosted by Netherlands and Poland. The women's beach volleyball team who wrote history after securing a maiden qualification slot at the Summer Games are eyeing the accolade too. So are the Kenya Lionesses who won the Safari Sevens round-robin tournament after finishing unbeaten, after emphatic wins over Uganda, Zimbabwe, Titans Academy of South Africa and Kenya Lionesses second string team. Other fetes for Lionesses include finishing tenth at the Tokyo Olympics. The national women’s basketball team, currently ranked ninth in Africa and 71st in the world, will also be gunning for the prize. The team qualified for the 2021 AfroBasket and topped the Zone Five qualifiers in Kigali, Rwanda ahead of Egypt, Rwanda and debutants South Sudan. During the event, Kenya won four matches and lost two which earned them a host of admirers.