A farmer in Karatina, Nyeri county is earning good money thanks to tree tomato farming. Lydiah Wamuyu does not have to worry about the market as buyers come to her doorstep. Walking to the Mwangi wa Matunda farm in Karatina is breathtaking. There is a fruit farm, with almost ripe oranges hanging loosely and young trees with ripe and fleshy looking tree tomatoes. However, Wamuyu says it has been a long journey. The farmer who is in her 30s said she used to grow cabbages but abandoned it after two harvests because it was labour-intensive and the returns were not good. “We had planted 3,000 cabbages and it was costly. During that time, one cabbage was selling at Sh30 so we got about Sh90,000. However, after deducting expenses, we were left with little money,” she said. In 2018, Wamuyu and her husband decided to venture into tree tomato farming. They started with 300 trees which they bought from a family friend and were elated when they sold a kilo of tree tomato at Sh100 and got Sh30,000. “Tree tomato farming is less labour intensive and I just add fertiliser and water the crop as I wait to harvest after every two weeks,” Wamuyu said. She said they decided to expand and add more trees. Once planted, Wamuyu said the tree takes about three to five years to be ready for harvest and the yields increases as the tree grows. Wamuyu has 1,000 trees and gets about three to five kilos from one tree, monthly. There is a ready market, farmers buy the produce at the doorstep at Sh80 to Sh100 per kilo. Payment is done instantly and Wamuyu can make between Sh300,000 to Sh500,000 (on a good month) from her tree tomato farming venture. “But, it takes time and good management of the trees to get good returns. The only challenge is the white fruit fly which we manage by spraying,” Wamuyu said. They are diversifying to other fruit crops such as oranges and passion fruits. She said last year, they started producing seedlings for tree tomatoes for their use and selling to other interested farmers. “We sell one tree tomato seedling at Sh50 and train farmers on tree tomato farming at Sh1,000 per session,”  Wamuyu said. Data from Greenlife Crop Protection Africa shows areas where citrus fruits are cultivated, provide good conditions for tamarillo, best known as tree tomato. In Kenya, tree tomato is grown in Migori, Kisii, Kakamega, Meru, Murang'a, Embu, Nyeri, Nyandarua and Kericho among others. “There are three tree tomato varieties which are mostly distinguished by their colour, they include the variety of the red fruits. This is mostly used for fresh market fruit due to its appealing colour,” the data shows. “The yellow fruits variety has a superior flavour and hence good for preserving, while the dark-red or black variety has large fruits and of higher quality.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris