Melvin Muga believes signing for Strathmore Scorpions will make her achieve the life-long dream of playing in the African Cup for Club Championship. The ACCC is an annual premier hockey continental tournament, where the top two teams in various leagues across the continent to book automatic tickets. The former Multi-Media University versatile captain, who has been part of the women's national team set up, was also courted by the Blazers hockey club but opted for the former. The Nyamira Girls' Alumnus said while she is yet to train with her new teammates, she is already feeling at home having interacted with most of the players at the national level. "Whenever I step onto the turf, I always endeavour to give my best. My dream was always to dazzle at the Club Championship and that is exactly what I want to do with Strathmore," she said. Strathmore have taken part in Africa show a couple of times by virtue of a second-place finish in the Kenya Hockey Union League. "Blazers wanted me but who can say no to Strathmore?" quipped Muga. "I can't wait to get started. I am a utility player and I can play wherever the coach wants me to," Muga 24, reiterated. At the same time, Strathmore coach Meshack Senge is keen to hold trials in March in a bid to tap more grassroots talent. The institution has lost many players in the past two years either through graduation or transfer even though hockey was inactive. Assessing his squad ahead of the new season which is set to kick off mid-February after a two-year hiatus, Senge said: "It is an almost new-look squad but I am impressed with their attitude in training and the desire to learn." He added: "We have to bolster the squad. Form four students are doing their national examinations from March so we will carry out the recruitment process around that time." Strathmore has over the years, contributed the highest number of players to the national teams (both men and women) and Senge is credited for creating an enabling environment for the players to thrive. 