Posta Rangers head gaffer, Stanley Okumbi reckons they still have a great deal of work ahead despite their recent impressive run in the Kenyan Premier League fixtures. The mailmen have been on a winning spree, the latest being their emphatic 4-1 thumping of controversy-ridden Wazito at Thika Stadium. The seasoned tactician, who is in his second season at the club, believes it might take a little bit longer before his charges ultimately get to master the gist of his philosophy, especially with the arrival of a dozen new signings at the beginning of the ongoing season. “I'm still not entirely satisfied with how things are. We are still not yet there but the players have begun mastering my philosophy, and that's a big plus. We need to rectify a few areas,” said Okumbi. Okumbi is prodding his charges not to rest on their laurels, insisting there is still some room for improvement and they must step on the gas peddle to remain in firm contention for the title this season. “I know we have been performing well but there are some departments that we still need to beef up if we are to remain in title contention, given the stiff competition,” said Okumbi. Okumbi reckons bringing fresh talent on board will be key to improving their fortunes from the preceding season and laying claim to their maiden title. “From the matches, we have played thus far, we need to sign offensive midfielders, a center-back, and a playmaker. Those are the positions we shall be looking to fill in the ongoing mid-season transfer window,” said Okumbi. The tactician who also doubles up as the national team Under 23 coach said he will continue giving the youth a platform to rub shoulders with the seasoned players on the top-flight stage. “Of course, I am a proponent of youth development and I have been fielding some budding players who have done well so far, an example being Josphat Lopaga,” said Okumbi. After blowing hot and cold in their first four matches, the mailmen found their footing in the competition and their recent positive results have left them sixth on the log with 21 points, seven adrift leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. They have won six matches and posted three draws and six defeats in the rest of their fixtures played thus far. On January 9, Posta stunned champions Tusker 1-o at Thika Stadium, arguably their biggest win of the season. The outcome came hot on the heels of their huge 4-1 win over Wazito.