Meru Woman Representative Kawira Mwangaza has urged residents to elect individuals and not parties in the August polls. Mwangaza said residents should look at a leader's work and gauge them on performance and not the party. Mwangaza spoke on Monday at Mwiteria, North Imenti, in Meru county. She said last time she almost lost the woman representative seat in 2017 because of aligning herself to big parties. “At first I wanted to vie as an independent candidate but Agriculture CS Peter Munya who was the then Meru governor wooed me to join PNU. I hesitated but finally agreed. "A few weeks after joining PNU Kiraitu Murungi, who was vying for Meru governor on a Jubilee ticket, convinced me to join Jubilee. I hesitated but agreed,” Mwangaza said. She said she agreed to join Jubilee after being told that the then Woman Representative Florence Kajuju would be given EALA MP seat by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kajuju eventually refused and they had to face each other in the Jubilee nominations. Mwangaza claimed to have been rigged out of the Jubilee nominations. She then opted to vie as an independent candidate and trounced Kajuju. “I came as an independent candidate and urged Meru people not to look at parties and vote for me as I will deliver. The residents were convinced,”  she said. The legislator said there is a trend in Meru to create parties for politicians to benefit and not residents. The woman representative who is vying for governor hit out at Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi. He said residents should not be duped that Kiraitu’s new party Devolution Empowerment Party popularly know as Mbus will assist Meru people. “He was the architect in the Jubilee party what did Meru get in return? "If he failed to deliver to residents in the party that had the President, Deputy President and himself as one of the powerful leaders, will he deliver with village parties,” Kawira said. She said Kiraitu has concentrated on creation of parties and failed to deliver as Meru governor. “In August 9 I will send Kiraitu home, he has not done anything for the people of Meru,” she said. She said Kiraitu is sitting on the fence on who to support for president because he waits to see which side she will support. Mwangaza said she will not accept to go on the same political coalition with Kiraitu Murungi. “Kiaritu is waiting for my move. If I go to support Azimio he will run there so I can be told to step down for him or face him in the nomination, which he will orchestrate rigging,” she said. Mwangaza said on March 27 she will unveil her manifesto and pick her running mate from Igembe South. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)