The national government has commenced the construction of a 53-kilometre road that traverses through the entire Gichugu Constituency. The Sh2 billion road project dubbed ‘Belt of Gichugu’ will touch all the five wards in the constituency, namely, Kabare, Karumandi, Baragwi, Njuki ini and Ngariama. Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji said the multi-billion road network will commence from Piai and snake through Mbiiri, Kiamutugu, Mucagara, Kamweti, Karumandi, Kabuti and end in Kimunye. It will connect to another 67-kilometre road network set to be undertaken in the constituency, which will touch other constituencies in the county. Githinji termed the 53-kilometre road  as one of its kind as it falls under the Class C road that is characterised with chippings atop numerous layers. He added that with consistent funding, the project will be complete in three years’ time. The first-time MP expressed satisfaction with other infrastructural projects undertaken so far by the Chinese contractor on site. “The category under which it falls means it will be more durable and longer lasting compared to other road projects constructed and others being undertaken  in the constituency,” he said. “However, that is not to say that we shall abandon them. I will see to it that there is proper care and consistent maintenance whenever they wear out so that they can continue serving the constituents.” Currently, he noted,  the constituency has a total of 50-kilometres of tarmacked road hence the new road will be a big boost to opening up the rural areas and consequently improving the economy. “It has been a rigorous process following up on this project. I have knocked on every door necessary to oversee its accomplishment and I'm glad there was assurance and co-operation. With it’s commencement, there now is a sigh of relief as we look forward to it’s smooth continuity and completion,”  he said. Njuki-ini MCA Fredlick Bundi urged residents settling near points where the road construction shall be undertaken to offer maximum cooperation to the contractor. He urged water contractors laying water pipes on various sites along the route to remove them and lay them in points where they shall not be tampered with by heavy machines. Site manager Stanley Muchiri noted that with co-operation from locals, the project shall be complete in time. He assured that they shall absorb locals to do menial works under the project. “In the spirit of reciprocity we will ensure that we put money into the pockets of the locals by tapping the available manpower into the project as well as buy their products like food and rent their houses for our workers," he said. Muchiri added that they shall take advantage of the sunny-dry season to do as much substantial work as possible because the constituency is a rainy area. Ann Wanjiku, a resident, she has had a rough time especially during the rainy season transporting her farm produce through the road. “When it rains, the road is in a terrible state and as such it becomes difficult for me to transport my farm produce to the market thus counting huge losses as a result of rotting.” Her sentiments were supported by Margaret Ruare. Richard Njogu, a boda boda rider, said he too has had transport problems while ferrying his clients. He said with the construction of the road, he will earn more and reduce on tyre and fuel expenses.