Tycoon Jimi Wanjigi has narrated how he enjoyed his stay at the Kamkunji police station. Wanjigi who spoke after he left court premises on Wednesday said the officers accorded him warm hospitality. “I, for the first time in my life, was a State guest at Kamukunji police station last night. It’s the first time in my life I have ever entered a police cell and spent a night," he said. "I want to say, for those who may doubt how I am today, let me assure you that they treated me very well at Kamukunji Police Station…all the officers were very good." Wanjigi said he got a few hours sleep, save for the times that officers kept checking up on him to find out whether he was well or not. "They treated me very very well, and I want to thank them for their cordial hospitality at Kamukunji police station," he said. But he noted that he has no qualms with Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti adding that the DCI was but a pawn in a larger game played by his masters. “The second thing I want to say is that I know bwana Kinoti is but a poodle who has masters, so I will not address bwana Kinoti, I’m going to address his masters,” he said. His lawyer said armed terrorists attacked his clients’ residence. "We filed an application and did obtain orders stopping the arrest, arraignment against our clients…" he said  moments after the court suspended his clients prosecution. Wanjigi was freed by a Nairobi court after the DPP confirmed that there is a High court order staying his prosecution. Milimani Senior Principal Magistrate Bernard Ochoi ruled that the proceedings cannot proceed until further directions are given by the High court. " I lift the warrant of arrest against Wanjigi and order that he be set free and released from custody", Ochoi ruled. The magistrate also suspended summons issued against Wanjigi's wife Irene Nzisa. Summons will remain in force against the six other suspects. This is after the DPP through Eveline Onuga told court that she had perused the High court order issued on Tuesday and was satisfied with its legitimacy. The case for Wanjigi and Nzisa will be mentioned on March 18.