Lang'ata Member of Parliament Nixon Korir has cited deceit as the main cause of the fallout between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto. According to Korir, Uhuru was allegedly applying the "use and dump" move on Ruto, which was part of his plan to gain more votes in both the 2013 and 2017 general elections. “Kenyans should not be fooled. Ruto never did anything wrong to Uhuru. I think deceit by the President is what caused the fallout between the two and it was because Uhuru was just using Ruto to get votes in both elections. It was part of the game of using and dumping,” he told the Star in an interview. Last August, President Uhuru Kenyatta revealed things started going south after his deputy began criticising the very government he serves. In his opinion, Uhuru stated that the DP had been focusing on his presidential ambitions, something he said was his constitutional right but at the same time sabotaging his agenda to the people by going against the same government he is serving. The UDA-allied MP went further and dismissed the incoming Sagana Three tour which is alleged that the president will ‘spill beans’ on Deputy President William Ruto. As confirmed by Jubilee vice chair David Murathe, the president is expected to address the third meeting at Sagana State Lodge —  touted as Sagana 3 next month, where he is expected to 'deconstruct' the anti-handshake forces. Sagana has become synonymous with Uhuru's political planning and strategy. Korir firmly noted that the tour will have no impact on Kenyans who have decided to support and vote for Ruto for the presidential seat in the August 9 elections. “Which beans are these? Uhuru Kenyatta is the president and if something went wrong in Kenya, it is him to blame and not another person. As UDA we don’t know which ‘beans’ these are but we will just listen and continue with the Hustler’s journey we started,” Korir said. The Hustler's journey involves selling the bottom-up “hustler's economic model” a philosophy that is a cornerstone of Ruto's 2022 presidential campaigns. The first-term MP opined that President Uhuru Kenyatta doesn’t want to go home after his term ends. 'PERSONAL PROJECT' He alleged that the head of state wants to determine who succeeds him for his ‘personal project’ which was wrong for an outgoing president having served two terms. "He doesn’t want to go home. In fact, If he had the opportunity to change the Constitution to remain in power he would have done it. But our constitution is very clear that on the serving term and forcing candidates on Kenyans will not work,” Korir noted. In addition, the MP urged the head of state not to interfere with the elections and let people choose their own candidates. “The only thing I’m requesting the president is that he should not interfere with the elections. He should finish his term and exit, the rest to Kenyans to do it By electing their leaders,” Korir said.