Campus politics used to be a breeding ground that prepared leaders for national politics. As it stands in the current leadership scene, however, that's no longer the case. Students now are fighting more on what to eat, it's no longer what it used to be. Most of the students who are now in leadership are still under their own upkeep or even that of their parents. Most of them have bills to pay and some standards to maintain. In the old days, politics was more issue-oriented and ideological, right now it is not. You have students staring at what they will eat and they want quick fixes. You'll rarely see student leaders addressing issues affecting their fellow students these days. This is because the quality of leadership in the universities and colleges has been infiltrated and compromised by the system. So it is no longer what it used to be. The life that was there a few years back changed radically, and right now we are dealing with a different generation. The dynamics have changed. Before, most students had student allowance and free hostels. Like for us, we had this thing called 'boom' that really used to go a long way in helping us survive. But currently, it is non-existent. The students of those days were not worried about bread and butter. But these days, they have to worry about what to eat and where to sleep. That has changed things, and the ideologies in politics have also changed. These days, politics is no longer ideology-driven, it is all about handouts and everything else. It is based on how much an aspirant can give in terms of money. It is no longer about how that leader will impact and change people's lives if elected. We need to get student leaders to get the opportunity to get to the political class. In this case, the ability to address current social and political issues is worrying. About the new elections system, I don't think it has any impact on the kind of leaders chosen in those institutions. We can't say the delegates' voting system that was implemented several years ago is the issue. Both delegates system and universal suffrage are forms of elections, but of course, with delegates, it's easier to manipulate the leaders. But still, the students are the ones who elect the delegates.