A few years back, I heard an intriguing story about a certain Kenyan footballer, which highlighted the high horse on which sportspersons place themselves when dealing with fans. This footballer had gone to buy mutura at his local in the neighbourhood when he encountered a young man who seemingly knew and admired him. Excitedly, this fan started screaming out the footballer's name in public and showering him with praises for his pitch exploits. However, the footballer reacted curtly, telling the young man to shut up because no amount of sweet words would compel the former to part with a coin or two. This is not an exceptional case. Rather, it is the norm across many sports disciplines. Some years back, another Kenyan footballer plying his trade abroad was engaged in a social media diatribe against some of his followers, who were questioning his sudden slump in form. This footballer went to the extent of using expletives against his critics, effectively unveiling his true self as a vile and unaccomodative person. Whereas it is true certain fans go overboard, the onus is on sportspersons to be the bigger parties in any dispute they may find themselves in with their club supporters. A solid relationship between players and fans benefits the former more than the latter. Brand sponsorship will soon trickle in for sportspersons who have cultivated a positive public image and are well-liked figures among the fanbase. Furthermore, players should always realise that not everyone will like them or be satisfied with their efforts on the pitch. It helps to be sober and evaluate some of the fans' comments, acknowledge the ones that are genuine and promise to work harder. There are many footballers across the world who are ever ready to admit responsibility for dire performances, using their social media pages as a platform. Such players are often quick to apologise to their fans for any losses suffered and to assure them of better returns next time. Remorse paints the player as a human being with his weaknesses and a willingness to better oneself. Another way to solidify a player-fan relationship is for the former to show concern for some of the issues affecting the latter. There are examples of sportspersons who contribute resources towards causes that are dear to their fanbase, such as the fight against cancer, crime, HIV-Aids and homelessness, among others. Involvement in such initiatives shows the sportsperson cares for the fanbase not just due to sports but as human beings. Fans are what adds flavour to sports, without which it would cease being entertainment. A good relationship between fans and players is necessary to ensure constant cashflow into the industry.