AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems was visibly over the moon after his charges broke a four-match win-less jinx with a well-deserved 1-0 win over rivals Nairobi City Stars at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday. The Belgian said a pep-talk he had with the squad before the match made all the difference. “After going for four games without a win, I prevailed upon the players and asked them to start developing a winning mentality,” said Aussems. “It’s good to keep a clean sheet and collect maximum points from this match. I don’t care about the opponent. We are focused and will continue working for more positive results,” he said. The Belgian gaffer tipped his charges to perform well at home given the improved condition of Nyayo Stadium which they shall use for their home matches. “We are happy we shall be using Nyayo Stadium as our home ground,” said Aussems. He also lashed out at centre referee for failing to rise up to the occasion. “The job of the referee is to protect the players. It’s unfortunate that the referee seemed too lenient in the match by waving on the play when he should have even sent some of the players off,” said Aussems. Maxwell Otieno’s rasping shot was all the 13-time Kenyan champions needed to tame high-flying Nairobi City Stars to send the Isikuti beats to a crescendo. Ezekiel Odera had a glorious opportunity to bring City Stars level in the 65th minute but his effort about 20 yards out flew inches wide. Eager to turn the tide Nicholas Muyoti rung some changes in the lineup. Sven Yidah’s pinpoint cross found Nicholas Kipkirui strategically positioned for an anticipated scintillating finish but the latter’s miserable first touch denied his teammates a reason to celebrate. Leopards made incessant inroads into the opponent’s territory but City’s watertight backline of Kevin Okumu, Edwin Buliba, Kennedy Onyango, and Dennis Wanjala stood their ground to limit the scoreline. Meanwhile, champions Tusker edged Bidco United 2-1 at Ruaraka. It was Shami Mwinyi who inflicted the first damage after coming on the end of Rodgers Ouma’s enticing pass to fire home three minutes to the breather. However, Nelson Chieta pounced on a loose clearance on the edge of the box to restore parity in the 74th minute. Christopher Oruchum floated in a brilliant cross from the left flank that found Tanzanian forward Ibrahim Joshua well positioned to double the advantage. Elsewhere, Posta Rangers made light work of Wazito with an emphatic 4-0 thumping while record champions Gor Mahia’s lackadaisical performance continued following their one-all draw against Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma.