With only about 200 doctors trained to administer anaesthesia, Kenya mostly relies on non-physicians such as nurses to provide the drugs before surgery. In some poorly resourced facilities, non-physicians are also allowed to use sedation drugs such as Ketamine to facilitate essential surgeries. This drug is preferred for sedation because it is extremely cheap and can be administered as an injection by clinicians with no specialty training in anaesthesia. The nurses insist this is not a stop-gap measure but a sustainable solution to expand access to safe surgery. But recently, medics from the University of Nairobi and Mater Hospital compared the safety of sedation provision by doctors and non-physicians. The results show an eight-fold increase in the odds of severe complications and death when non-physicians administer sedation. The researchers suggest that health facilities should now weigh if offering sedation by non-physicians to make essential surgery possible is superior to not having the surgery at all. “The concern is whether the risk of poor outcomes associated with non-physician sedation providers is a preventable harm, especially in the case of non-lifesaving surgery,” they say. Dr Andrew Ndonga from Mater Hospital and anaesthesiologist Prof Zipporah Ngumi from Department of Anaesthesia, University of Nairobi, took part in the study. In total, 25 investigators took part in the African Surgical Outcomes Study study, and analysed secondary data of 11,422 patients from 25 African countries, including Kenya. "[Some] 336 patients met the inclusion criteria, of which 98 (29.2 per cent) received sedation from a non-physician provider," the authors say. "The incidence of severe postoperative complications and death was 10 of 98 (10.2 per cent) in the non-physician group and five of 238 (2.1 per cent) in the physician group." They further add that "[t]he estimated association between procedural sedation conducted by a non-physician provider and in-hospital outcomes was an 8-fold increase in the odds of severe complications and/or death." The study – Postoperative Outcomes Associated With Procedural Sedation Conducted by Physician and Nonphysician Anesthesia Providers – is published in the current issue of the Anesthesia and Analgesia journal. Non-physicians include nurses and other health providers who are not medical doctors. Physicians include all medical doctors. The authors admit their study has many confounding biases. They say it is possible the complications observed reflect a difference in health systems more than a difference in skill of physicians and non-physicians. “The fact that non-physicians are required to provide sedation may be a marker of a poorly resourced facility,” the study says. In response, the Kenya Registered Nurse Anaesthetists provided a quote by their patron Mary Mungai. “Non-physician anaesthetists, with good training, will meet the ever-growing need for competent safe anaesthetists. They are already making a difference, and largely in rural Africa,” Munga said. Registered nurses, who receive two years of anaesthesia training, are known as anaesthetists in Kenya. Doctors with training in anaesthesia are known as anaesthesiologists. The study will likely contribute to the unending turf wars between various levels of practitioners who jealously guard their professional prerogatives and the kind of care they are authorised to perform. The KRNA said the study adds to the common perception that access to safe anaesthesia lies solely in the hands of anaesthesiologists. “Progress in attempting to change this mindset has begun,” KRNA said. The Kenya Society of Anaesthesiologists says its members first train as medical officers for six years. They then study for four years for a Master of Medicine in Anaesthesia, offered by University of Nairobi and Aga Khan University Hospital. Currently Kenya has 202 anaesthesiologists, 108 nurse anaesthetists and 478 other anaesthesia providers, according to KSA.