Days after peeling off UDA logos and symbols from her campaign materials, Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici has unveiled a new look. A source revealed to the Star that Ngirici, who is now eyeing the governor seat as an Independent, has pink, red and light blue as her choice colours with a touch of white. The colours have her name and slogan 'Tujipange na Wangui' and another slogan beneath it, 'Mutumia wa Wira' ( a hardworking woman). The trucks also bear her portrait, which she has previously used on billboards erected across the county. She recently also repainted in white and black her Kerugoya-based private office walls after removing symbols and colours associated with United Democratic Alliance, which is associated with DP William Ruto. She dumped UDA late last month, fearing there the party primaries would not be free and fair. Ngirici claimed her main competitor, Governor Anne Waiguru, would be rigged in by buying the nomination ticket. She also claimed that UDA officials tried to force her into dropping from the governor race in favour of Waiguru, who is seeking her second term, and instead vie for a parliamentary seat. On Saturday, Ngirici vowed to seek the governor seat as an independent, dispelling rumours that she was planning to join Raila Odinga-led Azimio la Umoja. "I am not seeking the position of any political party but will remain unswervingly independent," she said. She is optimistic that the people of Kirinyaga will elect her as their next governor, citing their "independent-minded" character. "Kirinyaga people are not easily swayed by party craze. They elect their leaders based on their capability and accessibility. So those who think parties will have a big influence in Kirinyaga will be in for a big shock," she said. She also told other politicians to desist from speaking on behalf of other leaders. She also told off Ruto's UDA faction for having rejected the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill. She said that the Bill, once it becomes law, will help nurture and strengthen small parties, which according to her, are being looked down by the Ruto allies. The MP said the Constitution is not static but needs to be updated to adapt to the modern world. "We are in a progressive world and as such, we need to grow our parties. This Bill will help bring recognition to small parties and see to it that they benefit with the resources and other benefits enjoyed by national political parties." "Those looking down on small parties and referring to them as village parties should learn to be tolerant because they shall equally produce national leaders in the forthcoming elections," she said. (edited by Amol Awuor)