Boris Johnson says he has "seen no evidence" of blackmail in his party after claims by one of his own MPs. William Wragg - who has called on the PM to resign over parties at No 10 - said suspected plotters have been threatened with bad publicity and cuts to constituency funding. He has advised colleagues who feel threatened to go to the police. An ex-Tory MP who defected to Labour, Christian Wakeford, also said he was threatened over funding for a school. Mr Johnson told reporters: "I have seen no evidence [and] heard no evidence." But asked if he would look into the reports, he replied: "Of course." Labour's deputy leader Angela Rayner called the claims "shocking" and Lib Dem leader Sir Ed Davey accused Mr Johnson of "acting more like a mafia boss than a prime minister". Scotland's First Minister, the SNP's Nicola Sturgeon, said: "If Tories are threatening to withhold public investment from constituencies as a way of keeping MPs in line then, yes, that's blackmail and intimidation - but it is also corruption. "The moral decay at the heart of Johnson's government may be even worse than we thought." But Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries accused Mr Wragg of "attention-seeking behaviour", calling his accusations "nonsense". Mr Johnson is facing down an attempt from some Tory MPs to oust him as leader over lockdown parties held in Downing Street. He has called on potential rebels to wait for the outcome of civil servant Sue Gray's inquiry into parties, expected next week, before passing judgement on him. But in a sign of worsening relations between Mr Johnson and his backbenchers, Mr Wragg launched a stinging attack on the way the government has handled dissent among Tory MPs. Speaking at a Commons committee that he chairs, the MP for Hazel Grove accused government whips - MPs in charge of party discipline - of threatening those suspected of plotting with the removal of government investment in their constituencies. He also said he had received reports of government ministers, advisers and staff at No 10 "encouraging the publication of stories in the press seeking to embarrass" those suspected of lacking confidence in the PM. Mr Wragg claimed the reports "would seem to constitute blackmail" - and as well as contacting police, affected MPs should contact the Commons Speaker. Cabinet Office Minister Stephen Barclay, who was attending the committee, said he would relay the concerns to the government. After the appearance, Mr Wakeford - who defected to the Labour Party on Thursday - said he had been threatened into supporting the government when sitting as a Tory MP. "I was threatened that I would not get the school for Radcliffe if I didn't vote one particular way," he told BBC North West Tonight. "This is a town that's not had a high school for the best part of 10 years and how would you feel with holding back the regeneration of a town for a vote?" He said the incident "didn't sit comfortably" and it led to him "starting to question my place where I was and ultimately to where I am now".