ODM boss Raila Odinga has warned Deputy President William Ruto's hustler nation movement to prepare for a political hurricane that will sweep him away in August. Raila said his Azimio La Umoja movement which he said brings together all Kenyans will win the presidency in the August 9, General Election. "I had predicted that it will be Tsunami but now we have a hurricane that will confuse Tangatanga," Raila said. Speaking at the Thika Stadium he accused Ruto of failing to deliver on his promises while in power adding that he has now morphed into a wheelbarrow dispenser. "Let him get out of power and I will show him how to lead the country," he said. The ODM boss defended his agenda saying although Ruto was accusing him of hand-outs, he was giving poor Kenyans a livelihood through his sh6,000 monthly stipend. "That will be a necessity to sustain livelihoods. It is not handouts. He promised laptops but he is now giving wheelbarrows," he said. At the same time, Raila accused Ruto of preaching politics of division and tribal hatred. The former prime minister said all Kenyans have a right to stay or work in any part of the country without fear. "We don't want to hear the language of madoadoa or kwekwe, we want to warn those people that we want a united country," he said during a political rally at the Thika Stadium. He went on: " Kikuyu can stay in Homa Bay or Eldoret, even the Hindu must leave anywhere. Those saying that the Hindu go to Punjab should know that this country does not belong to them only." Raila was referring to the remarks made by Meru senator Mithika Linturi in Eldoret a week ago using the madoadoa language against the DP's opponents in the rift valley. The former prime minister said that his administration will put the youth at the core of his government with interest-free loans to start businesses. "The youth do not need a wheelbarrow, they need better, I will ensure they start businesses," he said. He also promised a special fund for the single mothers." Those who were impregnated and dumped but gave birth, will get help to start businesses," he said. -Edited by B. Marita