Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya are battling for the control of the Party of National Unity. The Star has established that the duo is engaged in a shadow boxing political combat to take charge of the party that swept retired President Mwai Kibaki to power in 2007 re-election. The war erupted this week as camps allied to Muriithi and Munya battled over the fate of an aspirants’ forum organised for hopefuls from Central Kenya and Nairobi Metropolitan. The meetings convened by the Muriithi faction are to run from January 19 to 26, as part of the party’s strategy to enhance visibility and revamp grassroots networks. PNU chairman David Kamau, who is allied to the Muriithi faction, convened the meeting in a public advertisement placed in one of the local dailies on January 14. However, hours later, a parallel advertisement by secretary general John Okemwa was placed on January 15 , allegedly cancelling the same meeting. Okemwa is allied to a PNU faction loyal to Munya. On Tuesday Kuria convened a press conference to disown the SG’s position, saying the meeting would go on as planned. “We urge you to ignore the misleading statements purporting to cancel the scheduled aspirants meeting that was advertised by the party on January 14, 2022,” Kamau said. However, it has emerged that power struggles pitting Munya and Muriithi occasioned the standoff, threatening to stall the take-off of the PNU machine ahead of the August 9 polls. “There is a serious fight between Munya and Muriithi that has been going on for long because each of them wants to take charge of the party ahead of the general election,” an official of the party aware of the power struggles said. According to the source, Muriithi wants to run the show because he came on board when PNU was struggling and financed its grassroots rejuvenation campaigns, including opening a dozen offices. The governor has been leading high-level meetings between PNU and ODM boss Raila Odinga aimed at sealing a working deal ahead of the election. Muriithi is the chairman of the Raila's presidential campaign board, a position that strategically elevates him among his peers in Mt Kenya region. On Wednesday, Muriithi dispatched his deputy John Mwaniki to preside over the first session of the aspirants’ forum, despite the Munya wing's opposition to it. Conspicuously absent from the meeting was Okemwa, who had earlier declared the event “illegal.” “We have chosen PNU to be our political home after realising that it is a a nationwide party which is supporting Azimio la Umoja,” Mwaniki said during the meeting held at the PNU headquarters. However, Munya, who is also seeking to make a political comeback in the August 9 polls, is said to be keen on asserting his authority in PNU. Munya was the PNU party leader until his appointment into the Cabinet by President Uhuru Kenyatta after losing the Meru governor position to Kiraitu Murungi. He was, however, forced to step down as PNU leader to take over the state job in accordance with the law. Tellingly, Governor Kiraitu who is Munya's political rival, had backed Muriithi's appointment. The governor, through his Devolution Empowerment Party, said Muriithi was the best leader to lead Raila's campaigns. The endorsement opened the lid on the power struggles pitting Munya and Muriithi.  (edited by Amol Awuor)