The Kenya Taekwondo Federation say June's World Taekwondo Championships will be an opportunity for Kenyans to get the much-needed experience ahead of the All Africa Games in Accra, Ghana and the Paris Olympic Games qualifiers next year. Secretary-general George Wesonga said they will use the global event — currently scheduled for Wuxi, China — to undertake a needs assessment of the players and work on the same. "Our participation at the World Championships is to prepare the team for the All Africa Games and the Olympic Games qualifiers. We will be using it as a parameter to gauge the preparedness of the team and to subsequently work on the needs of the players," Wesonga said. The federation conducted trials for the global competition on Saturday during which 17 male and 17 female players were selected to enter a residential training camp. "From next week, they will be a residential camp for the team at Pipeline Estate. There will be two camps every week even as we head for the championship," he said. The World Championships was initially scheduled for last year but was postponed at the request of the Chinese government due to the complicated Covid-19 situation in China, which has prompted stringent conditions in Wuxi region where visitors would be required to quarantine for weeks. Wesonga is, however, not worried about the possibility of the coronavirus crisis scuppering their plans as far as the World Championships is concerned. "It is not really a big problem for us because it is likely that the event might be relocated to another country. There are several countries who have bid to host them and thus, by June/July, things might change," he said. Wesonga added: "Other than the World Championships, we will also compete at the Turkish Open on February 6. There is also the Africa Championships in Kigali, Rwanda and we also hope to participate. Such tournaments are just part of our long-term strategy to excel at the Olympics as well as the All Africa Games." The secretary-general further said the federation will organise various local competitions across the counties to grow the sport at the grassroots. "There are training cells across the counties where different players meet and compete to develop their talents," he said. Kenya's last appearance at the All Africa Games in 2019 in Rabat, Morocco yielded two medals via Faith Ogallo (silver) and Everlyne Aluoch (bronze). The country has also produced three players to the Olympics including Ogallo (Tokyo Olympics) as well as Milka Akinyi and Dickson Wamwiri (both Beijing Olympics).