Golf fans and enthusiasts will be allowed to attend the Magical Kenya Ladies Open, which will be held from February 10 to 13 at Vipingo Ridge's 18-hole Baobab Course, Kilifi County. The announcement follows consultations with both the Government and the Ladies European Tour — under which the Magical Kenya Ladies Open is organised. Covid-19 protocols that govern public events in Kenya will be strictly applied for the safety and health of fans and players. Only fully vaccinated spectators will be allowed to access the venue. Temperature checks will also be implemented during the event. Tournament organisers U.COM Event and Vipingo Ridge have confirmed that the spectators can now purchase tickets to the four-day tournament, the only women's professional golf competition in the East African region. Tickets are available on ticketsasa.com and are retailing for Sh500 per person per day. U.COM Event Managing Director Dirk Glittenberg said: "We are pleased to announce that spectators can join us at this year's Magical Kenya Ladies Open next month following consultations between local authorities and the Ladies European Tour." "Tickets for this year's tournament are now available and golf fans who would like to be part of this momentous event can now book their spaces through the Ticket Sasa platform." "The tickets are attractively priced to give as many people the opportunity to come and get a feel of the 2022 Magical Kenya Ladies Open experience." Vipingo Ridge Chairman Alastair Cavenagh said: "We look forward to welcoming golf fans and families to our spectacular destination and promise a fun day out for all but we must urge those attending to adhere to the Covid protocols that are put in place for the safety of everyone." Tickets for this year’s championship will also include access to the on-site music concerts by renowned artists. The tournament is the Ladies European Tour season opener for the 2022 season, with preparations in top gear to successfully host the event whose prize money is set at approximately Sh38.8 million.