Garissa Agriculture executive Mohamed Shale has called for equitable distribution of national resources in the fight against desert locusts and other invasive pests. Shale said this will allow Kenya to deal with the desert locusts menace in the frontier counties before they hit and ravage the breadbasket areas of the country. During the second wave of locust invasion, 7,000 hectares of crop and pasture, were affected in Garissa. The national government, county government, FAO, WFP, pastoralist girls, NDMA, meteorological department, Kenya Red Cross and KDF, jointly fought against the desert locusts. “There is no need of spending 70 per cent of available resources for compensation and fighting locusts. These resources could have been used to deal with the locust while they were still spawning and growing,” Shale said. He spoke on Saturday when he opened a regional stakeholders consultative forum on the draft management strategy on migratory and invasive pests and weeds, at Garissa Government Guest House. During the public participation exercise, participants from Garissa and Wajir gave their inputs on the document which seeks to streamline the fight against desert locusts, quelea birds, armyworms, purple witch weeds, Mediterranean fruit fly and other invasive pests and weeds. “In one day, a one square kilometre swarm of locusts can eat crops enough to feed 35,000 people. This strategy will allow us to put in place systems for early warning, response and control to these locusts,” he said. Shale called for the strategy to enshrine adequate resources for livelihood support and restoration and for dealing with the after-effects of migratory pests in affected communities. “A great deal can be achieved through cash, farming and livestock-based recovery packages that would help at-risk communities,” he said. Present during the event were, Agriculture director Musyimi Kyalo, Livestock director Haret Hambe, Donor coordination director Mohamed Sahal and Director for Intergovernmental and public participation Ismail Omar. The Wajir delegation was led by Agriculture director Sabdow Omar and Irrigation director Hassan Mohamed. The session was coordinated by a team from the Ministry of Agriculture led by Teresia Karanja. Edited by Kiilu Damaris