The office of Data Protection has received and registered 442 cases of people complaining about the misuse of their personal information. Out of this, 298 have been successfully investigated and fully resolved,  Data Commissioner Immaculate Kassait has said. “We will continue to receive complaints. The ones we received were initially from political parties and those from other actors,” she said. She said the registrar of political parties had been involved in resolving some of the cases. Kassait was speaking at Kenya School of Government during International Data Privacy Day held annually on January 28. She said investigations are ongoing for the remaining 144 complaints. Kassait said her office is an enabler in driving the Kenya Digital Economy. However, she said, data access, use and dissemination have become an issue of global concern. Kassait said while capitalising on its potential to create more reliable technological ecosystems that reward data users’ apposite information, trade-offs may risk the integrity and stability of economies, institutions and individuals. “Therefore, a changing domestic and global data protection ecosystem demands a coordinated effort to respond to public concerns in respect to how data is acquired and used, often without owners’ consent,” she said. Kassait said data privacy protection and digital skills agenda is imperative in ensuring the safety of the otherwise vulnerable citizens. She said the regulation of personal data seeks to protect the rights of data subjects and facilitate the realisation of the objectives of a thriving digital economy. During the event, a Data Protection Curriculum and an inaugural strategic plan covering 2021-2024 under the vision of enhancing trust and building transparency of data protection were launched. The strategic plan has prioritised issues of institutional capacity development, regulation and compliance services and awareness creation on the importance of protecting personal data. Through the strategic plan, the commission intends to strengthen the office by hiring 92 officers a resource requirement of Sh3.6 million over the medium-term budget framework. The office currently has a skeleton staff under 10 deployed from the Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs. Kassait said Personal Data Processing has been infiltrated by a few dishonest elements. “Their actions have dented the reputation of Data Controllers and  Processors doubting the integrity of the personal data processing. We must resist this trend and work towards enhancing trust and building transparency of data protection,” she said. She said her office has developed a data protection curriculum with the Kenya School of Government. This, she said, will help to address the inadequate awareness by Data Controllers, Data Processors and Data Subjects on the provisions of the Data Protection Act, 2019 and Data Protection Regulations 2021. The curriculum which seeks to enhance capacity on data protection will be rolled out in the coming months targeting both the Public and Private Sector Data Controllers and Data Processors. Kenya School of Government director general Ludeki Chweya said the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner was the first to develop the first Data Protection Curriculum for the country. “The Data Protection Act, 2019 obligates all Data Controllers and Data Processors to designate a data protection officer within the organisation. The proposed training will be mandatory for any officer designated as such in both the public and the private sector,” he said. ICT CAS Maureen Mbaka said Kenya together with the other African states are in the process of negotiating their positions for the African Continental Free Trade Agreement. Mbaka represented ICT CS Joe Mucheru. She said a key opportunity for the adoption of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement is the bringing of over 1.2 billion people into a single digital market. “The AfCFTA will be a critical catalyst in catapulting an African-wide digital economy by facilitating intra-African trade. However, as outlined in the agreement’s E-commerce protocol, a single digital market can only be achieved when states adopt a smart, transparent and accountable use of personal data,” she said. Mbaka said after the establishment of the office, the government increased the budget allocation from Sh25 million in the financial year 2020/2021 to Sh250 million in 2021/2022. Edited by Kiilu Damaris