The holiday is over, you are now back to the office, pumped up with the new year's resolution of clean and healthy eating. Instead of completely cutting off snacks, here are a few snacks you can replace with junk. According to nutritionist Wincate Wangari, snacking gets a bad reputation as people believe that it involves junk foods and sweet confectionaries. However, Wangari says that snacking can be used as a great way to add nutrients to your daily meals that keep you from getting too hungry between meals. “Having fibre and vitamins as snacks is great, as they make you feel full and can be added nutrients,” she said. Nuts are quite good for you. Wangari says the high fat in nuts is heart-friendly and may help fill you up quickly. From almonds, peanuts, hazelnuts, Brazil nuts, cashew nuts, macadamias and pistachios these are just examples of nuts you should incorporate into your diet for the awesome benefits. Nuts are rich in Magnesium which is essential for learning and memory and potassium is important as it helps regulate nerve signals in the body. “People who eat nuts have longer telomeres which slow done the cellular ageing, and its fibre content activates a healthy gut bacteria that boost the immune system,” she added. Dried fruits like dates, apricots, raisins or cherries are a perfect desk snack. They should only be eaten in small amounts, preferably along with other nutritious foods. They are rich in fibre, vitamins, minerals as well as antioxidants. Bananas, apples, avocados, oranges and strawberries can be very good snacks. Pairing them with peanut butter or eating them raw is a good source of nutrients; both vitamins and minerals. Hydration is essential, whether you are just seated at the office desk or running around in the office. A 2016 study found that individuals who drank more water were consistently more satisfied (i.e. not hungry). As a result, they ate fewer calories on a daily basis. Adding lemons to water is also a great way to boost immunity. Greek yoghurt is high in protein, calcium and vitamin B. Yoghurt promotes fullness and may reduce symptoms of bloating, diarrhoea and constipation. Going for plain, unsweetened varieties that contain probiotics gives you maximum health benefits. Edited by D Tarus