The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is hunting down a serial fraudster who poses as an investor at online forex. Reynold Shikhule is accused of defrauding many Kenyans who are now all over social media looking for him. DCI Director George Kinoti said they have gotten wind of numerous complaints on social media from those victimized by the suspect. Kinoti says a section of victims have been pursuing the suspect and even pledging monetary rewards to those who will help them in finding him. "But Shikhule is not new to corridors of justice. He has mastered his way through the criminal justice system, whenever he is arraigned in court and is released on bond or cash bail for fraud-related cases," Kinoti said. The DCI boss said Shikhule, 27, also poses as an established car dealer with connections globally. He was born in Nakuru and raised in Mushiangubu sub-location, Kisa Central location, in Kakamega county In one of his court cases, the suspect defrauded a Microsoft East Africa Systems employee Sh5m between August and October 2018. He falsely pretended to invest the money at an online forex trade that would earn the victim good monthly returns. The accused, thereafter, disappeared until June 2019 when detectives nabbed and charged him before a Kiambu court for Obtaining Money by False Pretences. He was released on a Sh 1M bond. After several hearings, the suspect made an application to settle the matter outside the court by returning the victim's money. But he went ahead to issue two bad cheques to the victim in February 2020. He absconded court in all the subsequent hearings, which saw a warrant of arrest issued against him by the Chief Magistrate at the Kiambu court. "Recently, a compilation of fraud cases that signalled his involvement was done by the SCU, triggering his profiling which established that his face, con trick & fraudulence was being run on various social media sites. Little has been left known of his trace," Kinoti said. "We appeal to anyone with information that may assist in his speedy arrest to call our toll-free hotline 0800 722 203."