Africa Under 18 champion Angela Okutoyi's ranking is expected to climb after a gallant run at the Junior Australian Open. The country's youngest Kenya Open champion who is ranked 60th will move up once the new rankings are released next week after winning two matches. Okutoyi beat  Federica Urgesi of Italy 6-4, 6(5)-7, 6-3 in the first round before beating Australian Zara Larke 7/6 (0), 5-7, 6-1in the second round. Okutoyi's bowed out of the Junior Australian Open after losing to Lola Radivojevic of Serbia 6-2 6-3 in the third round on Wednesday and coach Thuku Rogoi was delighted with the performance. "We take heart from the performance this was her first-ever Grand Slam and winning two matches is a step in the right direction for us,” added Okutoyi. Rogoi said with exposure at more international tournaments, Okutoyi can compete with the world's best. "The more international tournaments you play, the better you become. We are looking forward to playing more at elite-level tournaments," said. Okutoyi has been lined up to play international tournaments in Italy in February as well as the Africa Junior tournament in Tunisia and with the performance in Australia, Rogoi said they are also hopeful for the French Open, the second Grand Slam of the year, in May. "Our schedule for the next two months has been planned and we hope to maximize our opportunities so that we are ready for the next big tournament," noted Rogoi. Elsewhere, Kenyan players found the going at the ITF World Tennis Tour at the Nairobi Club. Alan Kimathi lost to Lucca Benoit of Canada 6-1, 6-0, Sahib Singh lost to Allan Gatoto of Burundi 6-4 6-4  while Liberty Kibue lost to Milic Ogjen of Serbia 6-1, 6-1. Raymond Oduor lost to Enrico Franchi of Great Britain 6-3 6-1 as  Brandon Sagala lost to Watters Roger of Great Britain 6-3 6-2. In the girls' category, Alicia Owegi lost to Russian Kornilova Marya 6-4 7-5 Reha Kipsang lost to Honori Koyama of Japan 6-0 6-1 as Chepkemei Yego lost to May Gulbrandsen of Norway 6-0 6-0.