Police are investigating the death of a 26-year-old man found in a lodging in Mlolongo, Machakos county. Clinton Wanakacha’s lifeless body was found sprawled on the bed in Room 6 of Miathathia’s guesthouse by employees at the facility. An employee at the guesthouse told detectives that the deceased had checked into the room on Tuesday night accompanied by a yet to be identified woman. Machakos police boss Issa Mohamed said they are looking for clues that would help solve the mystery death. The body was moved to the mortuary. Elsewhere, a woman was shot and seriously injured before being robbed of Sh40,000 by a gang as she walked to a market in Utawala, Nairobi. The woman had alighted from a matatu and was on foot when she was confronted by a gang that shot her in the left thigh. They later grabbed the money from her before escaping on foot. She was admitted to a local hospital in stable condition. Police who visited the scene said they recovered two spent cartridges. The hunt on the gang is ongoing, police said. Police said they had mounted operations as learning institutions re-open for the third term. A suspect was also arrested after a stolen motorbike was traced to his yard in Mihang’o, Dandora, and four more recovered. Police say they are yet to know if the four were stolen. The motorbike had been stolen from Upper Hill before it was traced to Mihang’o where the others were recovered. Cases of motorbike theft have been on the rise amid police operations to tame the trend. Some of the motorbikes are later changed and repainted before being resold. Last September, police said they had cracked a syndicate that sell stolen motorbikes to neighbouring countries. The motorbikes are moved to a garage where their tracking devises are disabled and later prepared for transportation. Nairobi deputy police boss James Mugera said they are investigating to establish if the recovered motorbikes were part of the stolen ones and were headed for a different market. “This may help us understand how this syndicate works,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)