West Pokot Governor John  Lonyangapuo  wants constituency funds devolved to counties due to misappropriation. Lonyangapuo said that MPs should let the money be devolved to the county government since the governors have already set up structures for the same purpose as CDF. He said counties have done a lot but nothing has been done by CDF for the many years it has been in operation yet the county is still facing many problems. “They should remain with the legislative and oversight roles while the governors deal with development,” he said. Lonyangapuo said that the responsibilities of Members of Parliament were very clear and their roles remain legislative and oversight as opposed to execution. “Who will do the oversight thing if the kitty will be in the hands of governors themselves," Lonyangapuo said. CDF was created through an Act of Parliament in 2003 after President Mwai Kibaki came into power. The fund’s objective is to provide resources for infrastructure and economic development in the constituencies. According to the law, the government allocates at least 2.5 per cent of the annual revenues for constituency development. The governor said  that the Constituency Development Fund should benefit Kenyans and cautioned MPs against misusing the money at the expense of wananchi. The governor said the devolved system of government is now in place helping residents but CDF only benefits a few individuals. He said many MPs had turned CDF into a political tool especially during this electioneering period. Lonyangapuo called on area MPs to use the kitty in constructing roads  along the border of West Pokot, Turkana and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. He added that all the MPs across the country who manage CDF should utilise it well to ensure the objectives for which it was established are realised. “The Constituency Development Fund is public money and not for the MPs hence need to be well utilized to ensure its intended objectives are met,” Lonyangapuo said. He said the fund should be used for the benefit of members of the public, arguing that they have the right to services through the fund. Edited by Henry Makori