Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula has suffered a political blow after tens of his party members defected to the recently launched Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K). This even as the party linked to Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa launched an elaborate office headquarters in Nairobi’s Kilimani area on Wednesday. The party launched the Chui House in a colourful event graced by the CS, Party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi MP) and Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren MP) among a host of other leaders. Wamunyinyi and Eseli received tens of defectors from various parties with Wetangula’s Ford Kenya the biggest loser. Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch and Lwande Oneko, the son of freedom fighter Achieng Oneko, led the defectors from Ford Kenya. Lwande was the director in charge of internal affairs in Ford Kenya. He led a host of other National Executive Committee (NEC) members in dumping Wetangula’s party. “DAP Kenya is the fastest-growing party and we want to assure that we shall field candidates in all the elective seats except president which we will leave for Raila Odinga,” Wamunyinyi said. Wamunyinyi assured aspirants of free and fair nominations adding that the outfit will field candidates countrywide. "The party is going to be available to receive new members. Our door will be open," the party leader said. Trans Nzoia senator Michael Mbito was the other big catch for the party as he joined the outfit from the ruling Jubilee party. “In Trans Nzoia, there is no other party now other than DAP,” Mbito, who chairs the senate Health committee, said. Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos and Former Minister Noah Wekesa were among the notable leaders who attended the event. Wamalwa, who was introduced by the party leader as a great friend of the party, condemned recent inflammatory utterances by some politicians. He urged the party members against uttering divisive remarks during their campaigns. “I hope party leader, that you will not go in that direction and that you will walk with Raila Odinga in Azimio La Umoja to unite our country," the party leader said. Wamunyinyi and Wekesa also condemned hate remarks by Meru senator Mithika Linturi and other leaders. Wekesa rooted for Raila’s candidature, saying that the former prime minister stands for unity and fairness “We all know that where Noah Wekesa is standing, the party where he is, is the party that produces the government,” he said. -Edited by B. Marita