Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has affirmed her support to the Deputy President William Ruto adding that she is confident he will form the next government. Waiguru argued that in the Mt Kenya region, the DP is leading with over 82 per cent. She said the majority of people in the region had already settled on DP because he previously stood with the region politically. He also said that his bottom-up economic ideology has appealed to many residents who have bought into the idea. Waiguru, who was speaking to a local tv, said the DP supports devolution and cited his commitments as the chairperson of the intergovernmental forum, which oversees development across counties, as a testament. She defended the Tangatanga faction against corruption accusations and asked the government to cease politicising the war against graft. She said there are constitutional structures that handle graft cases adding that they should be allowed to work independently. The governor reiterated the war on graft should only be based on evidence. While dismissing claims that the Azimio faction has many governors supporting the ODM leader Raila Odinga's bid, the Kirinyaga boss said most of the governor are serving their second and last term in office. "Any leader who is not an aspirant cannot attract substantial votes and therefore their support for Azimio should not be deemed as a guarantee for votes, people will listen to new leaders on ballot," she said. Waiguru advised Kenyans to join the UDA party saying it will form the next government. "An independent candidate cannot negotiate much on behalf of residents, we cannot afford to be out of the government if we really want to empower our people," she stated. On Kirinyaga politics, Waiguru said she was relying on her development record to defend her seat. She said her administration has transformed the county across social-economic sectors. "We have transformed the health sector by upgrading major hospitals and dispensaries, as we also improve our towns to create an enabling business environment for our traders," Waiguru said. Edited by B. Marita