Newly launched Democratic Action Party of Kenya will not be able to expand into a national outfit inside the Azimio La Umoja movement. These are the words of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula who spoke during a funeral in Kabuchai, Bungoma on Saturday. The Bungoma senator said it would be difficult for Luhya politicians leading to grow the party if they work with ODM. DAP-K is led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi with Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa as the de-facto party leader. The party is among those backing ODM leader Raila Odinga for presidency. Wetang'ula asked Luhya leaders to rethink their decision to support Raila's bid. "Let them ask me, I have supported him on several occasions but what he did to me I won't forget. Don't think that you can be special. Once he has completed his mission, he will dump you," Wetang'ula said. The senator was addressing mourners at the burial of Mzee James Wamalwa, a retired Ugandan senior police officer. He narrated how the former premier frustrated the deceased VP Wamalwa Kijana among others after they had agreed to work together. The Oka principal has subsequently vowed never to support Raila's presidential bid. He instead urged Bungoma residents to elect a leader who is supportive of other's ambitions. Early this month, the Ford Kenya boss said Raila had been sending people to win his support but he had turned down the offer. "Even if he sends as many people as he can to convince me, he can't win my support again." He regretted that he made a mistake by working with someone who can't be trusted. The relationship between Wetang'ula and Raila started dwindling when he was ousted as the Senate minority leader and replaced by Siaya Senator James Orengo. The senator also believes that Raila and CS Wamalwa were behind the coup which sought to dethrone him as Ford Kenya party leader. The National Super Alliance, under which Raila and Wetang'ula worked together, was officially dissolved last year. "Ford Kenya party will form government with other people or other people will form the government with us. We need supportive leaders not egocentric ones," Wetang'ula said. He urged Kenyans to be wary of egocentric leaders and pick those with interests of reviving the economy. Wetang'ula further reiterated his push to ensure free and fair nominations for the various positions in the Simba party. "Nominations will free and fair in Ford Kenya, let deserving leaders be picked to battle it out with others in the general elections. We need a fair playing ground for all and sundry," he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)