Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo now blames investigative agencies for dragging their feet in probing the mysterious dumping of bodies in River Yala. The lawmaker claimed that agencies are yet to establish the people behind the dumpings despite the concerns of the residents. "It beats logic why the investigating and prosecutorial agencies led by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions have taken too long to solve the puzzle," he said. Addressing a press conference at Parliament Buildings on Friday, Odhiambo blamed the alleged tag of war and supremacy battle between the DCI boss George Kinoti and DPP Noordin Haji for the endless dumpings. At least 20 human bodies have been retrieved from the river in the past few months in the shocking revelations that sparked concerns among Kenyans. On Thursday, two bodies were positively identified by their relatives at the Yala sub county morgue. It's believed that the bodies were ferried and dumped into the river by unknown people after being tortured. Odhiambo said it was puzzling how the security agencies have failed to nab the suspects despite reports they travel for long distances to dump the bodies in Yala. "It is puzzling how individuals have constantly chosen to travel for hours with dead bodies from different parts of the country especially in the Rift Valley where there are rampant killings to come and dump them into River Yala in Gem without a single flagging by security agencies," he said. "There are so many security inspection points on the way to Yala, whichever route you take. How have these individuals circumvented these points without the agencies arresting them or even raising alarm?" The MP, however, allayed fears that the bodies are of the locals. However, he raised concerns that the dumpings are posing a health risk to the locals who use the water for domestic and animal consumption. "This act poses a risk to the lives of people using the waters of River Yala for drinking and other household needs in Gem Yala, Gem Wagai, Bondo, Alego Usonga and Khwisero Sub Counties," he said.