The Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee on Tuesday conducted interviews to fill the position of Harambee Starlets coach. The current Starlets head coach Charles Okere was among the five coaches taken through the process at the Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi by a panel of five including former Harambee Stars coaches Mohammed Kheri and Rishad Shedu. Other local coaches eyeing the position include former Vihiga Queens coach Alex Alumira, South Sudan assistant coach Florence Adhiambo, Tusker assistant coach George Maina and former Harambee Starlets assistant coach Jackline Juma. Speaking on Tuesday after the interviews, FKF Caretaker Committee head of leagues and competitions Ali Amour described the process as free and fair. “We want to ensure we get the right person for the job. We allowed the panel to conduct the interviews without any government interference. We are keen on observing utmost professionalism in the recruitment process,” said Amour. “For a very long time the appointment of national team coaches has been marred by vested interests and this is exactly what we intend to get rid of.” In an earlier interview, Amour said Kenya will adopt a global model of appointing national team coaches. “For us to start performing well on the international front, we need to use a different approach in identifying national team coaches. All individuals tasked with the responsibility of presiding over the activities of the national team should be picked on merit,” said Amour. “Okere's position as Harambee Starlets' head coach is not guaranteed. We shall subject him to the selection process just like any other applicant seeking to fill the position.” “We have formed specific committees to identify suitable candidates and take them through the right process. By doing so, we hope to get the right individuals who will bring us the desired results,” he added. Okere's first assignment in charge of the Starlets took off on a high note after he led his charges to an emphatic 8-0 drubbing of South Sudan's Bright Starlets at the Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. Prior to the match, he had led Vihiga Queens to an impressive Caf Women's Champions League campaign in Egypt. Amour also said the committee would follow the same process in appointing other national team coaches including Harambee Stars.