Senators and MPs are racing against time to strike a deal on a controversial bill to release Sh32 billion grants to counties. Counties have not received a shilling in grants this financial year The 10-member mediation team appointed by Parliament speakers to forge a deal on the County Governments Grants, 2021 will hold its first meeting on Thursday. “We hope we won’t have much issues,” Senate budget committee chairman Charles Kibiru said. The committee, under pressure by governors to resolve the stand-off in time to allow funds release, aims to conclude its work by next month. “It is in the interests of everybody that we conclude this Bill immediately. We will table the report when we resume sittings next month,” Kibiru said. Kibiru, who is the team’s co-chairman, said they don’t want to keep the counties waiting any more, as they have not received grants in the current financial year. The counties are desperate for the cash after a court blocked its release, citing lack of legislation to anchor and guide its disbursement. Initially, grants were included in the Division of Revenue Act, but the court ruled grants be excluded from the Act. The potential problem was commingling of funds and difficulties in accounting. The existing Act divides revenues generated nationally between the national and county governments. The court ruled that Parliament enacts a separate law to anchor the funds and guide its disbursements, thus, lawmakers drafted the County Governments Grants, 2021. “The object of the Bill is to facilitate the transfer of conditional and unconditional allocations made to counties from the consolidated fund to the respective county revenue funds and special purpose accounts,” the Bill reads. However, the lawmakers clashed over the Bill, forcing the speakers of Senate and National Assembly to appoint a mediation team to hammer out a deal on the Bill. The 10-member team include senators Kibiru (Kirinyaga), Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Rose Nyamunga (nominated) and Farhiya Ali (nominated) representing the Senate. MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Kanyuithia Mutunga (Tigania West), Naisula Lesuuda (Samburu West), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) and Makali Mulu (Kitui Central) are representing the National Assembly in the mediation. Among the grants whose release have been blocked by the stalemate are a Sh6.3 billion grant from the World Bank for a National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project. Also blocked is Sh2.8 billion from the World Bank for the Kenya Informal Settlement Improvement Project. Others grants are Sh230.73 million from the European Union for devolution advice and support; Sh5 billion from the World Bank for water and sanitation development and Sh1.3 billion from Sweden for agricultural development. Counties allocated the highest grant amounts in the Bill in the current financial year are Garissa (Sh1.08 billion), Kilifi (Sh2.15 billion) and Kwale (Sh1.08 billion). (Edited by V. Graham)