More security personnel were Wednesday deployed to Lamu following an attack by suspected al Shabaab terrorists at Lango la Simba area near Nyongoro. Police said a team of court officials were shot at and injured by the gunmen as they headed to Garsen town from Kipini Mobile Court at around 5.50 pm. Police and witnesses said the Judiciary officials had spent the day at the mobile court in Kipini village in Tana River County. The gunmen had been attacking motorists travelling from Witu area. According to the police, the first two vehicles, including one that is used in the construction of the Lapsset road, were attacked, but the drivers managed to drive through and escaped with deflated tyres. Officials said those in the third vehicle, who included the driver, Garsen Law Courts Senior Principal Magistrate Paul Rotich, court prosecutor, court assistant, clerk and two police officers, also came under attack. Security officers responded immediately and repulsed the attackers. Police said two court officials were injured during the incident. Coast Regional Commissioner John Elungata said they had deployed more officers in the area to address the threat. “We sent a team which repulsed the gang, and all the judiciary officers involved are safe,” he said. The survivors said the gang had first fired a Rocket Propelled Grenade, which missed the target. They then sprayed the vehicle with bullets. The driver lost control of the vehicle, and it veered off the road before it stalled, enabling the occupants to jump out to their safety. The incident comes days after the gang attacked and burnt eight vehicles used in the construction of the Lapsset road on Lamu-Garissa road. The camp belonging to the China Communications Construction Company Limited (CCCC), and based at Kwa Omollo Bridge, near Bodhei inside Boni Forest, also came under attack. The attack on site, which is guarded by Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers, has left construction works grounded. The site is used for the construction of the Sh17.9 billion Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor Project access road. Security officials had had intelligence that indicated the terrorists were targeting the Lapsset and any other related projects in the region. The government has blamed ethnic profiling that is linked to political inclinations around elections, the looming voter registration drive and land disputes, as the primary causes of the latest attacks and displacements in Lamu. The Lapsset Corridor Program is Eastern Africa's largest and most ambitious infrastructure project bringing together Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan. Since the beginning of this year, the militia group has been carrying out targeted attacks on civilians and security officers. At least 20 people, including police officers, have been killed in various villages of Lamu, including Widho, Juhudi-Ukumbi, Marafa, Mashogoni, Milihoi, and Bobo-Sunkia this month alone. A dusk to dawn curfew is in place in the area as part of efforts to address the menace. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i also declared four divisions in the county. “The attacks have also occasioned the destruction of private property and unsettled residents in the affected and surrounding areas,” said the CS.