ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked Kenyans to be patient and wait for his major announcement on January 23. Speaking in Nyamira on Sunday where he is set to hold a series of rallies and meetings, Mudavadi said his announcement will disrupt Kenya's political setting. The ANC boss also dismissed claims of joining anyone ahead of the forthcoming General Elections. "I have heard people say I am slowly moving out of OKA, just wait. There is a major announcement that will shake the country, there is no need for doubts," he noted. Mudavadi said the ANC convention to be held at the Bomas of Kenya will unveil his way forward. "We do not want to pre-empt what we have discussed as the leaders of ANC. But we will give a major declaration that will be like an earthquake on our way forward politically," Mudavadi said. At the same time, he denied skipping the OKA Principal's meeting held in Naivasha saying he was engaged in organising the ANC Annual Delegates Conference to be held on January 23. He was with Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo, Deputy governor James Gesami, Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja and a host of Mcas allied to ANC. Mudavadi held a consultative meeting with governor Nyaribo and a number of MCAs allied to him from Nyamira. He further urged the Nyamira residents to consider electing governor Nyaribo saying he is among the leaders who have the potential to run Nyamira as a County. Mudavadi declared his support for Nyaribo to be his deputy party leader. "I humbly request our people who have goodwill to support governor Nyaribo in his bid to continue running Nyamira because as his party leader, I see a leader in him," the ANC boss added. Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja urged the residents to consider a leadership that will ensure people are economically empowered. "If you look across, there are very few leaders who are advocating for economic empowerment whereby Musalia is one of them, just read his lips and know that in him, there is a government," Sakaja said. He is expected to hold a series of rallies across the County whereby he will meet and address his supporters.