Kisii politician Don Bosco Gichana will battle it out with Jimmy Angwenyi for the Kitutu Chache North MP seat. Gichana had initially said he would vie in Kitutu Chache South. He said he decided this after consulting opinion leaders and the electorate. “I am happy to be back home, people are eagerly waiting for change,” Gichana said. The Don, as he is popularly referred to, would battle it out for the UDA ticket with veteran lawyer Migosi Ogamba. The two, alongside others, would be seeking to unseat Angwenyi, Kenya’s longest-serving MP. Gichana said he is ambitious about servant leadership that puts Kenya’s interest at heart. “Voters want credible leadership but not getting elected for the sake of it,” he said. Gichana spoke on Sunday at Kiomooncha shopping centre. “Today’s function was meant to seek people’s permission and blessings,” the politician said. He asked voters to judge him based on what he has done before. Gichana returned home two years ago from Tanzania where he had been jailed. He credits Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi among others, for helping him pay Sh13 million to a Tanzanian court for money laundering. The politician said he had gone to Tanzania in 2013 to visit Median Mwale, his friend, then in prison who had been accused of similar charges. However, he was bundled into prison for the same charges. He said much needs to be done for his constituency. The UDA supporter said he chose to work with DP Ruto because of his principles and what he stands for. “The DP has proved he can be an agent of change needed by the country, let us back his bid,” he said. His supporters said his candidacy gives voters a chance to experience what youthful leaders can do. Ben Nyagaka, Ibeno ward aspirant urged the electorates to consider him and what he can do. Evans Ogoti, a local politician, urged Angwenyi to retire from active politics. Darius Mosoti described Gichana as a generous politician who helped community members who fled Kisumu during the post-election violence chaos. He said Kitutu Chache North electorates deserve better. Young leaders, he said, have the energy and zest to help the constituency move forward and give the residents the life they deserve. Edited by Kiilu Damaris