Kitui lawyers want probe into the death of state counsel Kelvin Gesire, they claim he did not die of natural cause. Gesire's body was found in his bathroom in Kitui town on Tuesday morning. Casting doubt over reports of possible suicide, the lawyers said preliminary findings have shown that the death of their colleague was not natural and have demanded thorough investigations. The Kitui legal fraternity on Friday said it would, in consultation with Gesire's family, designate a team of lawyers for the case. The lawyers will provide technical support to the police and the family as investigations into the death progresses. “Preliminary reports from the police officer who recovered the body suggested that he did not die of natural causes,” a signed statement from the deceased comrades in Kitui lead by Morris Kimuli and Grace Muatha said. “On the morning of January 18, the legal fraternity received the shocking news of the death of prosecution counsel Gesire. "He was found motionless in his house in Kitui and subsequently pronounced dead,” the signed press release added. The lawyers said the law requires that deaths that do not occur of natural means be thoroughly probed and cause established. They went on to condole with and expressed solidarity with the bereaved family, colleagues and friends of the fallen prosecutor as they sought answers on the death. “Gesire was one of us. He lived and worked among us and with us. He was firm and yet fair and professional in the execution of his duties. He was personable, easily making friends and keeping them,” they eulogised the departed lawyer. “It is against this background that the legal fraternity in Kitui is deeply disturbed by pervasive speculation and conjecture on the cause of Gesire’s death. We deprecate the premature and untested narrative that Gesire took his own life,” the lawyers said. They expressed reservation that some media outlets had attributed the rumours of the death to sources within the police ranks. They cautioned that it was not in anyone’s purview to pre-empt the outcome of investigations by making unverifiable conclusions on the death. “We demand thorough, exhaustive and objective investigations to be undertaken to establish the cause of our brother’s death. "The constitution that guarantees the right to life demands this. We will accept nothing less from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations,” they said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)