Residents of Chetambe Hills will have to wait longer for the degazettement of a notice that had directed their eviction from the forest land. The area is occupied by more than 30,000 people, with development, including public amenities. The 406 acres were gazetted as forest land on July 25. But earlier in the week, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said the President had directed that the gazette notice be revoked after outcry from area leaders and residents. The CS spoke during a baraza in Sipala. Ndivisi MCA Martin Wanyonyi said, "A public pronouncement alone cannot revoke an already published gazette notice. We expected to see the revocation of the gazette notice next day but this has not been done." Despite saying the eviction will be revoked, Tobiko insisted that people who were compensated by government will not be allowed in the forest land. "The government cannot compensate you and you come back and expect to be allowed in the same land," he said. Tobiko directed that before the degazettement, he would first allow a task force led by Tachoni elder Sitati Lichuma and other government  officials to do both physical and documentary verification. This effectively means that the degazettement will have to wait until the process directed by the CS is complete. Tobiko said a petition the residents had forwarded to the Senate seeking the degazzetement of the notice should proceed. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka have said the best way to end the impasse permanently is to ensure the petition goes through the Senate. "The only way to end this thing permanently is to have it go through the Senate so that no one else will come with another gazette notice to evict the people," Wetang'ula said. He said public pronouncements like the ones made by Tobiko are not sufficient to revoke a gazette notice. "A gazette notice cannot be revoked by political statements but either by the court or Parliament," Wetang'ula said. The gazetted area touches half of Webuye town, part of Pan Paper factory, a recently built interchange on the Great North Road and residential areas. In the 19th Century, the hills harboured a fort for the great ruler of the Tachoni and Bukusu communities also known as Chetambe Yifile. This fort had houses for the families and a cattle kraal. In the middle of the fort, there was a sacred tree known as the omutoto, which was regarded as holy. It was the place where elders paid their respects and offered animal sacrifices to the gods. While the government insists that residents were compensated long ago, some residents say most people were never compensated. Mihuu retired chief Stephen Murumba told the Star that the government compensated residents for the land between 1973 and 1975. Each was given between Sh3,000 and Sh7,000. "This is government land and people were compensated," he said. Murumba said that after the compensation, those who had moved out started coming back slowly. Others sold land to unsuspecting Kenyans. Edited by A.N