The country is heading to the 2022 General Election, which will be held in August and politicians are realigning themselves for the much-awaited moment, and fake news is all over. Fake news is expected to be rampant in this electioneering period, filled with propaganda on and by politicians and prominent people. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika is one of the latest victims of fake news. On Monday, a post was circulated on social media with quotes claimed to be from Kihika. According to the post, the senator had said she will no longer accompany Deputy President William Ruto to campaigns across the country. “This year, I will not go around the country to campaign for William Ruto because I have a daunting task ahead of me. I have invested too much time selling the hustler narrative until I forgot my great people of Nakuru county,” the false post claimed. It continued, “Now I’m panicking and everything looks so uncertain. My political future is becoming bleak every other time. It's time I focus on myself now because my friend Lee Kinyanjui is another tough mountain to climb in Nakuru, I wish my friends in Tanga Tanga the best as their struggle with the fight.” The Star's fact-checker has confirmed that the post is not from the senator, nor did it originate from her social media or from her office. The post also claims that the senator has quit her ambition to be the next governor of Nakuru, which is not true. Kihika has been accompanying Ruto to campaigns across the country and has been among the key politicians that the DP is relying on to sell UDA’s agenda. The post also has a number of grammatical errors and does not state the next move of the vibrant politician who has been dominating news headlines in the country. Kihika is among women expected to vie for the gubernatorial seat to increase the number of women governors from the three who took office after the 2017 General Election. She dismissed the post, saying that, “They wish ‘face with tears of joy!! FAKE as a 3-dollar bill.”  Edited by CM