DP William Ruto can concentrate on other regions after supporters told him on Saturday they will 'lock' the Rift Valley for him. During the mega rally at the Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday, Governors other leaders  pledged to fortify his home turf as  Ruto goes out to campaign in other regions. “We have heard leaders from other regions asking we release DP Ruto so  he goes out to seek support and I confirm that as a region we have freed him to other Kenyans," Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said. Governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, Josphat Nanok of Turkana and Stanley Kiptis of Baringo said they would take charge of Ruto’s campaigns in the region while he works other regions for support in his bid for president. “DP Ruto is now free to go out and campaign in other regions without worrying about his backyard because we will ensure the votes are locked for him," Kiipti said. Mandago said all aspirants would also actively campaign for the DP in the region. MPs and leaders from other parts of the country pledged to ensure he gets backing. MP Ali Mohammed from Nyali led residents in a public oath committing to back Ruto in August. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Ruto was the choice of the Mt Kenya region and no one else would get its backing. MP Sylvanus Osoro said the Kisii region would not support ODM leader Raila Odinga. "We are happy that yesterday they did a birthday for ODM chief Raila Odinga, it was also s retirement party attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta," Osoro said. Meantime, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi was been arrested by DCI detectives attached to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission over his remarks during a rally in Eldoret Saturday. The DPP said, Linturi's comments could incite contempt, hatred, hostility, violence or discrimination. Loosely translated, he said, "We want to be in the coming government but I want to tell you, people of Uasin Gishu, not to play with Kenya and I am asking you to remove the spots you have here. We cannot stand with William Ruto from Mt Kenya yet you have people here who don't listen and cannot team up with him." Linturi later apologiSed over his remarks saying his "madoadoa” remarks on were not meant to incite or propagate hate speech. At the rally, Sirisia MP John Waluke said the Western region would also back DP Ruto while Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka said the Kamba community also promised support. "Ruto is the people's project and not like the other one [Raila Odinga], who is a government project," Munyaka said. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said the Kenyans supported DP Ruto and no efforts would break the bonds he enjoys countryside. Governor aspirant for Mombasa Hassan Omar said the Coast supported DP Ruto because he enjoys countrywide support. Legislator David Sangok claimed Raila was not fit for presidency because of his historical background. Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni wa Muchomba said Uhuru himself had asked Kenyans to back Ruto for 10 years after his own retirement. "As people from Central we don't cheat and we will give the DP his ten years as president,"Wamuchomba said. More than 100 MPs attended the rally in Eldoret where Senator Murkomen said their presence indicated the DP enjoyed support countywide. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah said leaders and residents of Central had already entered into a pact with DP Ruto ahead of the August 9 polls. "We are in a partnership with DP Ruto to form this movement that would liberate Kenyans from state capture and poverty," Ichung'wah said. (Edited by V. Graham)