High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell has said that the organisation has committed Sh4.5 billion for the second phase of the Programme for Legal Empowerment and Aid Delivery in Kenya. Speaking during the launch of the programme at the Makadara Law Courts, Borell said PLEAD II will take effect later this year and will run up to 2028. “PLEAD has initiated transformative criminal justice reforms in Kenya, delivered key support to judicial institutions and allowed to develop an extensive offer of legal aid services to vulnerable and marginalised citizens,” he said on Friday. Borell said PLEAD phase II will focus on capacitating the criminal justice system to fight corruption more effectively and on harnessing the potential of digital technologies to improve access to justice for the most vulnerable. He noted that PLEAD is the biggest EU justice programme in sub-Saharan Africa. Chief Justice Martha Koome, who was also present at the launch, said the second phase will build on the successes of PLEAD I. She said the programme helped improve institutional effectiveness and performance by various actors in the justice sector. It also enabled enhanced access to justice especially for the poor and vulnerable, through the provision of legal aid. “The support from the PLEAD I programme enabled the actors within the justice sector to continue delivering services despite the challenges brought by the Covid-19 pandemic,” Koome said. The CJ added that support under PLEAD I contributed towards ensuring a collaborative and consultative approach among member agencies under the National Council on the Administration of Justice (NCAJ) that enhanced access to justice. "Key achievements included the multi-agency response to COVID-19, development of policy including the diversion Policy and the plea-bargaining guidelines. PLEAD support also strengthened Court User Committees and development of the NCAJ Strategic Plan 2021-2026." The first phase of the programme focused on 12 counties, including; Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu, Garissa, Isiolo, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, Tana River and Wajir. The second phase of the Programme for Legal Empowerment and Aid Delivery in Kenya will cover 17 counties.