Lamu residents have been asked to collect their IDs from the county registrar of persons office in Mokowe so as to register as voters. The office has more than 700 uncollected IDs. Speaking on Monday, county registrar of persons Wilson Onyango urged those who applied for the IDs to visit the offices and collect them to enable them register as voters for the August election. “Anyone who applied for this document needs to come forward and collect it. This is especially important because of the ongoing voter registration,” Onyango said. He said the office is currently conducting vetting for new ID card applicant across the county with the exercise targeting to register at least 2,000 youth who have attained the age of 18 years and above. He however said a major challenge in the exercise is that many youths have been intentionally skipping the vetting sessions by failing to turn up thus prolonging the exercise. He said most youth in the region also seek their IDs when they are already beyond 18 years of age complicating the process. Residents in terror prone areas of Lamu have numerously decried being marginalised and denied IDs due to security challenges in their areas. Between 2014 and 2015, the national government halted issuance of ID cards in Lamu following security concerns that terrorists were cunningly acquiring the document. However, even after resumption of the exercise, communities in terror prone areas of Boni and those along the Kenya-Somalia have complained of being frustrated in their quest to acquire the document. Majority of residents in these areas have yet to acquire IDs due to the tedious processes involved and have numerously found themselves at logger heads with security agencies who have arrested them for failing to prove their nationality. Many have equally lost out on employment opportunities for not having IDs. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said the government was committed to clear any ID registration backlog in the shortest time possible. He said civil societies including Muslims for Human Rights and Lamu Youth Alliance as well as political leaders have been instrumental in the success of mobile outreaches through Huduma centres and mobile vetting of applicants for IDs. “Statistics indicate good progress. However, the collection of IDs has been slow. Our national administrative officers are working closely with Nairobi and Huduma Centre in ensuring all deserving Kenyans are vetted on time and get their IDs,” Macharia said.   -Edited by SKanyara