Hit Squad head coach Benjamin Musa says they are keeping their ears on the ground to remain in the know of any changes that might be introduced in boxing rules ahead of forthcoming international events. Kenyan pugilists experienced a miserable run in their last assignments, with most of the squad members attributing their debacle in the ring to short-notice changes rang by the International Boxing Association. Musa said he will alert his charges of any arising transformations once they regroup for a non-residential training camp at the end of the month. “We have already learnt our lessons the hard way and we are not ready for a repeat of what we went through the last time we took to the ring at international assignments,” said Musa. “We voiced our concerns during a recent meeting with IBA and they promised to organise constant briefings to keep the participants posted.” Musa was, however, categorical it would be imperative for Hit Squad boxers to participate in all major global events if they are to stay abreast of the developments. “What's even more important is finding ways of participating in each of the events organised by IBA to keep in tandem with the rest of the world,” he added. The gaffer is set to identify pugilists for the forthcoming international events, including the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games slated for July. Musa said it would be unnecessary to select players based on the outcome of the events lined up in the newly-released Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) calendar, given the team is already pressed for time. The local boxing governing body had earlier in the year hinted at the possibility of using the events to identify squad members after several household names gave the second edition of the inaugural President Jamal Boxing Championships a wide berth. The championships also served as the national trials. “We shall name a provisional squad to report for training at the end of the month. We intend to include all those who emerged champions at the two editions of President Jamal Cup held in November and December,” said Musa. “We will also allow those we feel have the potential to make the country proud. Generally, the provisional squad will comprise 20 men and at least 10 women,” he added. The coaching unit, he said,  would take the pugilists through a rigorous selection process, including speed and endurance tests. “Beating your opponent in the ring or emerging the best in the sparring sessions will not guarantee anyone a slot in the final team. We want to ensure we get the best boxers to represent our country at the forthcoming events. BFK believes in quality representation,” said Juma. Kenya will look to redeem their battered image at the Africa Zone 3 Boxing championships set for March in Tanzania ahead of the Africa Boxing Championships in Cameroon between March and April. The women's team will then travel to Istanbul in Turkey for the IBA Women World Boxing Championships between May 6 and 21.