Combining a squeeze of lime with Viagra can make the drug four times stronger, a study published in Nigeria has suggested. According to the Sun, Scientists say the citrus cocktail will also allow people to perform within minutes — instead of the usual 30minutes minimum. The study was conducted by the Federal University of Technology in Akure, Nigeria. In the study, impotent lab rats were given the drug with the juice of two limes. The rodents were reported to be having sex within 15 seconds. The juiced-up rats also got frisky with twice as many females, the Sun reported with blood tests showing a 70 per cent rise in nitric oxide, the Sun reported. According to the study, the lime helps to increase levels of nitric oxide, leading to a better blood flow. Lead researcher Ayokunle Ademosun, of the Federal University of Technology in Akure, Nigeria, said it is the first study to show citrus fruit can help beat impotence, according to the Sun. Just five months ago, Thika police were  investigating an incident where a man, 46, collapsed and died after a hot session with a young lover. The lovebirds were having a steamy session in the car’s backseat before the man stepped out of the car and collapsed. The duo had parked their vehicle near Kenya Revenue Offices in Thika town. Thika OCPD Daniel Kinyua said police found the lifeless body of John Gicharu with his trousers half-lowered and his private parts swollen. Kinyua said his girlfriend aged 25 is the one who alerted the police on the incident, after the man collapsed on her at midnight. Cases of men mysteriously collapsing and dying during or after steamy sessions with their lovers have been worryingly increasing. In most cases the incidents have been caused by use of performance enhancing pills. Less than three weeks ago, another man died inside a hotel room after using Viagra in Murang'a county. Police in a report said Frederick Opiyo, 50, allegedly died moments after he emerged from the bathroom in what police suspect was after he used Viagra.