UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya alliance talks started in 2017 after the general election, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has claimed. Osotsi said while still serving as the ANC secretary general he saw that coalition coming up, and therefore it is not a shock for it to materialise. “I saw it from 2017 a few months after elections. Everything around Mudavadi and ANC was Ruto,” Osotsi said. “I warned against it and I was condemned, persecuted and had it not been for my bravery I would have lost my seat,” he added. He says the pact between Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, Musalia  Mudavadi and DP William Ruto was a total disgrace to the luhya community. Osotsi said its a big relief to ODM leader Raila Odinga as he has suffered blackmail, character assassination by these two leaders. He said it is now the turn of Ruto to get a share of what Raila has gone through in the hands of Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. The nominated MP said Ruto will soon realise the political burden he has taken over at the wrong time citing the two have no political benefit to him. The lawmaker said Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have betrayed their One Kenya Alliance colleagues for their own gains. “They have further betrayed Luhyas and Kenyans who believe in good governance,” Osotsi said. The lawmaker was speaking to Star via the phone on Monday. Their pact with UDA will not generate much support for Ruto in Luhya land, he said. It will instead enhance Raila's political standing in the region. Raila has gained and Ruto will lose. However those allied to Mudavadi have maintained that they will support whoever will be on the ballot. Already DP Ruto has scheduled Western political rallies with the ANC  boss and Ford Kenya leader to strengthen their pact as they seek votes countrywide. At a State House meeting on Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta termed Mudavadi and Wetangula's decision to back Ruto as "misguided and disappointing" "The President was clear that we do everything possible to consolidate Western Kenya behind Azimio la Umoja because that is the political direction of the country,” Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya told the Star. The President told Western Kenya leaders that Mudavadi had frustrated him.   -Edited by SKanyara