Public Health Officers from Nairobi received capacity-building training on enforcement of Covid-19 health and safety protocols. The training conducted by AMREF Kenya and supported by Kenya Breweries Limited and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, sought to equip the public health enforcement officers with best practices in enforcement of Covid-19 protocols. The training was funded by KBL under its Raising the Bar initiative that aims at providing entertainment outlets with Covid safety equipment, merchandise, training, and other incentives as they seek to create a safe environment in line with the Covid-19 pandemic safety measures and protocols. This is to help them operate in a safe and healthy environment. The initiative which was officially rolled out in December 2020 also involves the training of outlets’ personnel to ensure that they are well equipped with the requisite skills to implement the safety standards demanded. Speaking during the training in Nairobi, NMS County Director for Health Services Dr Ouma Oluga said that the campaign will provide Covid-19 health and safety training to bars and restaurant workers in Nairobi County to help control the spread of the virus and provide a safe environment for staff and customers. “We have partnered with KBL to equip Public Health Officers and bars and restaurants workers in Nairobi with the necessary training required to enforce public health safety with respect to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Bars and restaurants are high-risk areas in terms of spreading of the Covid-19, and we, therefore, aim to ensure those responsible to implement the measures are well equipped with the best practices,” he said. He further reiterated the county government’s commitment to enforcing the set Covid-19 measures within the Metropolis. “NMS is committed to protecting the lives of everyone who lives and visits Nairobi. We shall therefore continue to enforce Covid-19 measures as stipulated by the Ministry of Health and therefore urge everyone to adhere to these measures,” Oluga added. Kenya Breweries Limited’s Head of Public Policy Zack Munyi said they want to refresh the minds of the staff in these outlets on the Covid-19 health and safety protocols. This is to ensure they understand them and that they are well equipped with the skills and knowledge to handle customers in the right manner in the current Covid-19 pandemic environment. "Through the Raising the Bar program, our aim is to create a healthy environment for everyone as they continue to interact in these establishments,” Munyi said. On his part, Mike Muthama, Chairman of Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya (PERAK) noted the importance of the training to curbing the spread of the virus within the outlets. “This is a crucial training that will ensure a safe environment for people to continue with their normal lives. We urge our members to ensure strict adherence to the set health and safety protocols in order to guarantee the safety of all,” Muthama said. The training was attended by Public Health Officers under the Nairobi County Government drawn from all the Sub-counties in Nairobi. Edited by B. Marita