A cinnamon roll is a sweet baked rich dough that is filled with a cinnamon-sugar filling. Its origin being traced to Sweden, where they actually observe a cinnamon roll day. They're usually fluffy, soft and incredibly delicious, a perfect snack for someone with a sweet tooth. Common toppings for cinnamon rolls include cream cheese frosting or a sugar glaze. Ingredients Filling: Method Preheat oven to 200 degrees. Brush a square baking tin with 2 tablespoons of melted butter. In a large bowl, add flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, and salt then whisk. Add 3 tablespoons softened butter into the mixture then knead using your hands. Warm milk then transfer it to a bowl, add the egg and stir until well mixed.  Pour the mixture into the bowl with flour and stir continuously until a soft dough forms. The dough should form into a nice ball and be slightly sticky. Note: If it's too sticky add in 2 more tablespoons of flour. Transfer dough  to a well-oiled bowl, and cover the it, for an hour to 1 ½ hours, or until it has doubled in size. You can place a kitchen towel on top of the covered bowl to help with the rising. Uncover the dough and place it into a floured flat work surface. Roll it into a 1/4-inch thick rectangle and brush its surface with 2 tablespoons melted butter. Spread softened butter over dough, leaving a ¼ inch margin at the far side of the dough. Whisk 1/2 cup white sugar, brown sugar, and cinnamon together in a small bowl. Using your hands sprinkle mixture over the buttered dough, then rub the brown sugar mixture into the butter Tightly roll dough around filling to form a log, starting from the 9-inch side making sure to seal the edges of the dough as best you can. Cut the dough into 1 inch sections with a serrated knife. Place rolls on the prepared baking dish and bake in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes until rolls are set. Take them out and allow 5 minutes to cool. Glaze with preferred topping and enjoy with a hot cup of white chocolate or coffee.