A family from Kimilili constituency in Bungoma county is appealing for financial help for their daughter's cancer treatment. They are calling on well-wishers and area leaders to help them raise  funds to aid their daughter Marion Nekesa, 12, who is a Class 6 pupil at Kimilili RC Primary School to undergo cervical cancer treatment. In an interview with the Star, Nekesa's mother Carolyne Namalwa said the illness was discovered last year in November  after the family took her for a CT-scan. She said her daughter is in great pain and needs urgent treatment. She also said Nekesa has a breathing problem and she cannot sleep for long hours. Namalwa said her daughter’s complications started with the inflammation of the stomach which later extended to the abdomen making Nekesa unable to move and hence unable to go to school. “Before we took her to the hospital she used to complain of stomach aches, after the CT scan was done, it was discovered that her ovary had complications,” she added. Namalwa said the doctor’s report revealed that the pupil had developed cervical cancer and needed immediate medical attention. “I have been to many hospitals fighting for my daughter’s life but funds shortage is limiting our efforts. I humbly ask well-wishers to come to my aid and help me raise funds and take her to the hospital,” she said. Namalwa said she has sold household stuff to raise funds for treatment for her second born child but the money is still not enough. She says she is the breadwinner of the family after husband, who used to work in Turkana, was injured after he was shot during the Turkana and Pokot skirmishes and was also involved in a road accident on his way back home. “My husband depends on me for everything. Since he was shot on his left arm he is unable to do work.” She said in all health facilities she has visited, they are demanding for a comprehensive health cover which she lacks. “I have been turned away in hospitals because I don’t have a comprehensive health cover, I operate with an NHIF card,” she said. Namalwa said she was requested to take her daughter to Kijabe hospital for special treatment. Nekesa's class teacher Asha Nethia said the school is worried about Nekesa's state, adding that they have been doing fundraising to help her undergo treatment. “Since we heard that one of our pupil is sick we have been doing fundraising, we urge the county government of Bungoma chip in to help us,” she added. Contributions can be channeled to pay bill no. 9432499.    -Edited by SKanyara