Growing a beard is easy but maintaining it is where all the work comes in. The journey does not end once the desired length and volume has been achieved. You need to know how to keep your beard healthy and keep it looking smart and clean. Kelvin Muthee, a barber at Kiss and Style says that growing a beard requires patience and a truly epic beard is the product of self-restraint. “When you are growing it for the first time, resist the urge to trim or style, leave it untouched for the first 4 to 6 weeks, this allows the hairs to grow in evenly, even though some grow faster than others,” Muthee said. “Every guy’s hair grows at his own speed, a good diet, healthy lifestyle and exercise can help speed up the process.” Choosing a style that complements your face shape is also key. Muthee says that for some men, facial hair is fairly unique. “For some men, hair may grow neatly downwards while for others, it might stick out. If yours does the latter, opt for a professional trim and get some beard oil and a comb then brush the hair downwards, as part of your daily beard care,” he said. As beard oil softens the hair and the comb can be used to shape the hairs, Muthee advised keeping the beard dry to avoid irritation as well as avoiding sticking food crumbs in the beard. When looking for good beard oil, he advised opting for one formulated with a blend of natural, organic and vegan oils like argan oil and jojoba. “In the early stages of growth, it’s not just about the hair, but the skin underneath. Use a good shampoo and conditioner and scrub several times each week and use a moisturizing shampoo with anti-dandruff and salicylic acid,” he said. Remember the skin on your scalp is not the same as the skin on your face so using products specifically made for beards can add that extra touch of softness and keep your beard looking a little healthier. He also advised sticking to one professional barber who understands your style and hair to avoid the nasty infections and razor bumps that may form when the hair is trimmed wrong. " if you choose a beard style that requires a bit more upkeep, you’ll need to take the time to maintain it." Edited by D Tarus