Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday traversed parts of Kiambu in a calculated political move to lay the ground for Saturday’s rally with his new partners. The DP, who was accompanied by a section of his key allies from the region, held at least eight campaign stops across Kikuyu, Limuru and Kabete constituencies. Ruto used the opportunity to test the waters following his political alliance with Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula. The team, which has unveiled the Kenya Kwanza Coalition as its election vehicle, is expected in Kiambu on Saturday for its inaugural rally in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard. During his campaigns on Wednesday, Ruto dropped a lot of political symbolism when he campaigned on the new Kazi ni Kazi, Pesa Mfukoni campaign slogan. He said his administration will focus on empowering the lowly through a dedicated fund, offered to small and medium enterprises and mama mboga to uplift them. “We cannot allow a few people sitting in hotels to decide who will be president, this is the time for a government of the poor,” Ruto said at Limuru. The DP and his new partners are expected in Bungoma on Friday for the first joint Western Kenya tour since sealing their political deal. They will be hosted by Wetang'ula and hold rallies across the county. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, whose stature has risen significantly in UDA since she rejoined the party last year, will host the leaders on Saturday. They stormed Nakuru and Baringo counties on Wednesday where they unveiled their new unity in the battle against ODM boss Raila Odinga. Speaking on his campaign trail in Kiambu, Ruto asked Raila to stop complaining, over his harambee contributions. Ruto called out Raila for questioning his source of wealth whenever he contributes money to fundraisers. He said the former Prime Minister does not understand the life of the poor and he should stop complaining, Sh2 million is very little money. “The many fundraisers I have done Raila has been asking where the deputy president has been getting the money from. I want to tell “Bwana Kitendawili” he does not understand because he is not from where some of us have come from. We know the life of the poor,” he said. The second in command said if elected president on August 9, he will allocate Sh50 billion for small businesses. The DP said the money will be not be accessed from the county level or national government but through their various wards. He accused Raila of confusing the Jubilee government, insisting that it would have achieved most of its promises were it not for the former PM. “I am the Deputy President of Kenya and I'm not a mad man,” he said. Ruto said he is the only one who is best placed to complete what is remaining from the work President Uhuru Kenyatta has done. Edited by Kiilu Damaris