The duty of electing the president during this year’s general election belongs to Kenyans and not a few billionaires sitting in Nairobi, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto said a few moneyed individuals, just because they are billionaires, cannot determine the country’s next leadership. The DP, who spoke in Changara in Teso North on Wednesday, said Kenyans should be allowed to freely elect their next leaders in August. He said Kenya should not be a country where boardroom meetings are relied on to choose leaders especially the president. Ruto is in Busia for a series of rallies and meetings and is expected to tour Teso North, Teso South, Nambala, Butula, Matayos and Budalang’i as he continues to popularise his presidential bid. “To show that they do not value other Kenyans they went to a hotel in Nairobi to do interviews because they want to determine who will lead the country. "That 50 people can go and sit in a hotel to determine who will lead Kenya? Do you see how they are insulting other Kenyans?” Ruto told supporters in Changara open-air market. “Those who went to Safari Park Hotel to determine who will lead Kenya just because they have a lot of money, we want to tell them that we have no business with their money. "Every one of them has only one vote and this year we are going to stop them. They will know that we are strong,” the DP said. Ruto said Kenya is a democracy where each vote must count during elections. Kenyans, he said, must stand firm in protecting their voting rights and ensure the leaders they prefer during elections get the opportunity to lead the country as well as their respective counties, constituencies and wards. The DP was in the company of Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba, former Teso North MP Arthur Odera, UDA county coordinator Susan Mangeni and a host of UDA MCA aspirants in Teso North. “I want to tell you the people of Changara that unless we stop these people from deciding who will lead Kenya, tomorrow they will come here and take away your women because they feel you are useless,” Ruto said amid applause. He said the business of looking down upon other Kenyans will stop this year. They will know that each one in this country is important and everyone’s vote is important, he added. “Let them continue to do whatever they are doing in Nairobi but I want to assure you the people of Changara and Teso North that you are the people who will elect the next leaders,” the DP said. Ruto is expected to address rallies in Logiri market in Nambale and Adungosi in Teso South where he will be hosted by former Teso South MP Mary Emase. He will also meet people in Bulanda junction in Mtayos before cruising to Murumba market in Butula for another rally. Thereafter, the DP will fly to Funyula where he will meet business people before addressing a rally at Bukiri market. He will close his engagements in Busia in Budalang’i with a rally at Budalang’i market. The DP exuded confidence that he will be the next commander in chief. “I am here in Changara to ask for your support because we have the opportunity to form the next government after this year’s elections,” he said. Ruto said they have agreed with 160 MPs in the entire country that they will form the next government on UDA party, the party that believes in hard work. "We have 160 MPs who support our agenda and ODM has 73 MPs. This is a sign we are forming the next government,” he said. The DP said his administration will give priority to youth and small business operators’ empowerment. He said in his first year in office, his government will allocate Sh100 billion towards housing, agro-processing and value addition to create employment. “We have over four million youth in Kenya who have completed school and have certificates, diploma and degree but are unemployed. That is why we have said before we do any planning, we must plan how the youth will get employment,” the DP said. HIT AT RAILA Ruto took a swipe at ODM leader Raila Odinga whom he said is fond of complaining whenever he helps small-scale Kenyans financially. “The other man who loves parables was here recently and I heard him complaining that I am giving between Sh1 million and Sh2 million to the youth and women. "I want to tell him that this year after the elections, when we form government, we are going to allocate Sh50 billion for small holder business operators. "Let him continue complaining of the Sh1 million and Sh2 million that we are giving now,” Ruto said. He said supporters of the BBI should suspend the debate over the proposed amendment of the Constitution and focus on helping Kenyans get out of poverty. He added that there are people who believe that Kenyans job is to clap for them and kneel before them. "We voted for their fathers, we also voted for them and now they want us to vote for their children. I want to ask does this Kenya belong to a few individuals? “The other man who loves parables and his team are telling us that we must amend the Constitution and create more powers for leaders as our youth continue waiting. Do we have time for that?,” Ruto said. He said since 2013 when the Jubilee administration took over power, his initiatives have helped increase electricity connectivity in Busia from 15,000 households to 90,000. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)