The current discussions and speculations on the possible contents of the MoUs that will follow the upcoming political coalitions ahead of the 2022 general election once more underpins the central role of access to information in group processes. Without prior sharing of the contents of these political formations, electorates are just wallowing in emotional crowd behavior, which can not allow them to make informed decisions on why to vote for any of the parties. Ordinarily, the details of the formations would be made public to allow people to be enlightened. Citizens participate in our elections with very little information that has made them merely followers rather than stakeholders in this important exercise. Nothing of substance comes out of their rallies or media appearances, maybe during the night meetings. Political messaging seems a big challenge to these institutions, and many political parties have no serious structured communication units, save for a few. Political party followers rarely get the opportunity to understand how decisions are made in those entities. The agencies that are entrusted with helping citizens participate in these processes rarely enforce the provisions of the right to information Act or prior active information disclosure requirements in the electoral laws and administrative codes on the same. Remember what happened when the Registrar of Political Parties in a pilot allowed people to know which parties they belonged to according to their portal- it led to a public uproar. For example, can a follower lodge a request for information regarding manifestos, coalition details, sources of funding for Annual General meetings or National Delegates Conferences, political rallies and public engagements within the current legal provisions? Is there a requirement within any of the electoral related or political parties laws that require these entities to share or divulge information and their provisions for members legally seeking this information or reprimand relevant authorities on those flouting such requirements? How do we make the right to access to information a critical player in terms of enhancing public participation and good governance in our electoral processes? The right to information framework is not only an anti-corruption tool as has been made to appear but a critical enabling law in terms of enhancing public participation in governance and democratisation process. Access to information must be mainstreamed in our electoral processes alongside other civic education initiatives that elevate elections from mere periodic rituals to processes that impact Kenyan lives. More importantly, the right to access information held by public authorities is a fundamental human right recognised in international human rights law, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. The government drafted the access to information bill but it is yet to enact it. Article 35 of the Kenyan Constitution and the right to information Act 2016 are critical in the electoral processes. Public bodies are required to disclose information to the public because they hold information not for themselves but as custodians of the public good, and thus everyone has a right to access this information, subject only to clearly defined rules established by law. Enhancing the flow of information helps to promote government accountability and a sense of trust amongst the people about the government and public authorities. It is also a key tool in combating corruption and other forms of wrongdoing. The right to information is, therefore, a key public policy tool for promoting good governance and other social benefits. Today, reading the emerging coalitions and party formations, you rarely read about respect to gender considerations, people with disabilities or minorities. Mostly, it is male, regional, tribal and related issues that are dominating. Our political parties have men and women, highly educated, professionals with integrity, intelligent guys who know what they are doing but will rarely do what benefits Kenyans.