Mombasa doctors on Monday evening called off the strike that was to start on Tuesday. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Mombasa branch secretary Nassir Shaban said they have received salaries for two months and the pending NHIF contribution paid in full. Earlier in the day, the Kenya County Government Workers Union Mombasa branch had urged its members not to participate in any strike being called by health workers’ unions. KCGWU Mombasa branch chairman Abdulrahaman Mwamagadi had asked members to wait until Friday this week when Governor Hassan Joho promised payment of salaries. KCGWU Mombasa branch chairman Abdulrahaman Mwamagadi asked members to wait until Friday this week when Governor Hassan Joho promised payment of salaries. Last Friday, the governor asked the doctors to suspend their strike as payments would be made within one week, but the doctors refused to heed the governor’s call. In two separate press conferences on Monday, the KCGWU and the health workers unions differed sharply. Mwamagadi said they opted to wait until Friday after having several meetings with the Finance executive and the governor last week. “We are telling our members to remain calm and give the governor time to deliver on his promise of ensuring that the salaries will hit our accounts by Friday,” he said. Mwamagadi accused the doctors’ union of looking down upon other county workers’ unions. The KCGWU comprises former local authority staff inherited by the county government. It has a membership of about 2,500 members including cleaners, garbage collectors, fire department, inspectorate and the parking unit. “We are not with them, we are also a professional body with structures from the national level down to the county level. Let us respect each other, since they have chosen to go on strike, they should allow us to wait for the governor to deliver on his promise,” Mwamagadi said. At the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital, the health workers’ unions said they are ready to face the county administration in court, adding that they will continue with their planned strike. The health workers' unions have about 4,000 members. They include the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers and the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentist Union. The medics had raised several issues, including unpaid two-month salaries, non-remittance of statutory deductions and lack of promotions. Franklin Makanga, the secretary general of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Mombasa branch, said they are ready for a legal battle. “We want to tell the county government that this time round we will fight it in court. They have been going to court to seek orders, but this time we have followed the law and we are ready to face them in court because our rights have been infringed on,” he said. Makanga said the national government released November and December county funds amounting to Sh700 million, but until today, the health workers have not been paid. “On Friday, we had a meeting with the governor and his leadership, but our members refused to agree with Joho’s team. We have collectively agreed there will be no services in Mombasa until that time when all the pending issues will be addressed,” he said. Kenya National Union of Nurses Mombasa branch secretary Emily Musoyi said the county has a problem of giving false promises. “Mombasa county has reduced health workers to be like beggars. Our children are still at home, we do not have food, we have not paid our bills and we do not have transport to take us to work,” she said. Musoyi said the only language the county understands is strike. “We will not relent until our dues are paid in full,” she said. Edited by A.N