Naivasha and Kinangop have the most cases cases of vandalism of electrical installations in the Central Rift Valley. KPLC regional manager David Syengo on Monday said the Maai Mahiu area of Naivasha was the most affected by vandalism in the region and the country as a whole. It is a major investment destination due to the Inland Dry Port in Nakuru county. Cargo headed there contains lots of copper and other other metals that can be sold, as well as valuable equipment. Naivasha is also a major electricity source from Ol-Karia Geothermal Plant and  upcoming Suswa Geothermal power production by the Geothermal Development Company. It is expected to house an industrial park. The population is expected to surge as people seek work at the industrial park. Speaking at a journalists' workshop in Nakuru, Syengo called for concerted efforts to fight vandalism of power infrastructure that has recently caused extended blackouts around the country. The vandalism has led to major losses to the power company, the manufacturing sector and households. The company has reported the destruction of 63 transformers in 12 months within the Central Rift region of seven counties. The destruction cost Sh45 million to repair, plus the spiralling loss of power, lost business and industry. Syengo said vandalism is a major threat to the investments that are  heavy power consumers. Central Rift includes Nakuru, Baringo, Nyandarua, Narok, Bomet, Kericho and Samburu counties. The 63 transformers were vandalised in Maai Mahiu, Karati, Kasarani, Maiyela, Kiamunyi and Sobea — all in Nakuru, Ol-Kalou, Ndaragwa and Kinangop in Nyandarua, Duka in Narok, Sikawa in Bomet and Sigowett in Kericho. He said while  most vandalism is committed by outsiders, some rogue staff in the company participated in vandalism. "Many offenders who include KPLC staff have  been charged in court but the main challenges are the lenient sentences and penalties,"Syengo said. He said KPLC registered 75 cases in six months and 20 others were under investigation. "Four staff members implicated in some cases have had legal and administrative action taken against them.” He said the company was sensitising national government administrations officers to end vandalism. They include county commissioners and deputies, chiefs and subchiefs and officers from the Director of Public Prosecutions office. He added that another measure being taken to protect electricity installations was enhancing penalties  and classifying the offences as economic crimes. Syengo added that the company aims to improving the reliability of power supply to consumers through expansion of its network. “We are setting up more substations along the long lines in Narok and Rumurutin in Samburu to meet the growing demand for power for commercial and domestic use," he said. Construction of the two substations is underway. The Narok installation is expected to be completed by April this year. Syengo said Narok and Samburu are supplied power from Lanet Sub-Station in Nakuru, which leads to massive power loss along the lines. He added that 112,00 new clients were connected to the grid last year and the target in 2022 is more than 82 new connections. Nakuru county KPLC business manager Henry Pwani said meter tampering, vandalism and power theft through illegal connections were the company’s major challenges. He said rogue electricians were using stolen power meters to illegally connect unsuspecting clients to the grid. (Edited by V Graham)