At least seven Meru residents were killed on Wednesday night in Mweronkoro, Tigania East. The residents were ambushed along the disputed grazing zone by suspected camel herders from Isiolo who were on a retaliatory attack. The attack came after angry residents drove the herders' camels out of their farms early Wednesday. Those killed are Lawrence Mweti, Kimathi Kaigera, Njilithia Kiunye, Kariie M'Muketha, Eric Turkana Kinoti, Muriiki Muthee and Maanthi Laibuta. Meru residents said this is not the first time such attacks were happening in the area and their main agenda is to grab their land. Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea, his Tigania West counterpart John Mutunga and Imenti South MP Kathuri Murungi condemned the killings. The three urged Meru county commissioner Karuku Ngumo to beef up security in the northern grazing zones. Kabeabea said a life lost can never be replaced and urged security agencies not to allow camel herders from other areas to invade Meru. "Our people have suffered in the hands of criminals who destroy their crops on farms and kill innocent people. I call upon the county commissioner and other security agencies to protect our people and their property," the MP said on the phone. "I spoke with Mutunga and agreed to henceforth drive all camel out of our land. They must leave immediately," Kabeabea said. Mutunga urged Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to conduct a crackdown and arrest the culprits. "We had 38 NPR officers who were disarmed. Why were their guns withdrawn? You can't safeguard life or property while armed with a panga against a criminal armed with a gun. No camel should cross into my constituency again," Mutunga said. Kathuri said Meru MPs will hold crisis meeting on Monday to discuss the insecurity in Tigania East and West, Igembe Central and South regions. "Do we have a powerful national and county government of Isiolo than we do have in Meru? Security agencies have relaxed in the region. Meru is not a land for criminals to come and kill without a single arrest as it has been for years. Disarm all bandits. If erecting a stone perimeter wall is the solution to this menace, then so be it," Kathuri said. Ngumo said they have dispatched enough security personnel to calm the situation and ensure residents' safety. Meru chief of staff Gideon Kimathi called for disarmament and apprehending of the attackers. Meru herders association chairman Charles Kamwibua urged security officers to listen to farmers woes. "Camel herders do not recognise or bother about crops. Their animals feed on them. We met security agencies and explained the situation on December 23 but they never drove the camel away," Kamwibua said. "Residents were angered and protested against camels feeding on their farms. They protested and drove them away. In the evening, the bandits descended on them in their manyattas and shot them dead," a source who sought anonymity said. "A few days ago, area chief and OCS went on a mission to drive them away but they were called and told the camels belong to the mighty in government. They turned away. People are living in fear." Buuri chief John Mamira told journalists that the bandits who were from Isiolo attacked from 6pm to dawn. "They invaded by 6pm and left six dead. Several people are missing. There is no good reason for such a heinous act. Our people are always peaceful," Mamira said. He said no one had been arrested in connection with the killings. Mamira called for further investigation to bring the culprits to book. Edited by A.N