Four more people have been shot dead in Kerio Valley region in  two days as two children and and a pastoralist were wounded in separate attacks. The four were killed in West Pokot county while the others were injured in Elgeyo Marakwet county. The latest killings sparked outrage as former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui and other leaders accused the government of neglecting the region. Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich has also urged the government to intervene and stop the killings. Kiptanui denounced the government for failing to steam the escalating violence in Kerio Valley. More than 60 people have been killed in five months. The pupils and a herder were seriously injured at Samar village in Marakwet West on Tuesday. The children were heading to Barsumbat and Chepkum schools. Kiptanui who visited area said the senseless killings  were unacceptable and must be stopped. All the three are still hospitalised at Iten County Referral Hospital and AIC Kapsowar Mission Hospital. They underwent surgery for injuries to the neck, arm and pelvic regions. Kiptanui who is vying for governor of Elgeyo Marakwet has proposed radical and long-term proposals to help end banditry in the Kerio Valley. He said it is disheartening to see lives and property lost each day and yet  a government was elected to protect them and their property. “The National Police Reservists should be hired, trained and deployed in their numbers by the national government to help protect communities. Police officers have proved unable to pursue or repulse the bandits," Kiptanui said. The former MP and leaders have been addressing peace meetings in the area. “The government is being insensitive to the suffering of residents at the hands of bandits who are killing with abandon,” he said. "We have made several proposals on the insecurity problem but we have been ignored. Once elected governor I will prioritise security issues," he said. The former lawmaker said  the county should heavily invest in infrastructure including purchase of hard terrain vehicles to help handle the security issues. Kiptanui said the county would also hire and pay the reservists while the national government would arm and train them. "I will take the lead to ensure safety of our people no matter what it will take because without security we can not do anything else." Kiptanui who has been serving as chairman of the KVDA Board said security personnel should be deployed to serve the community. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, who was expected to visit the area, said the government had deployed two police officers to each of the schools in affected areas 24-7 to help protect children and teachers before and during exams. Deputy Governor Wesley Kiptoo wrote an open letter to President Kenyatta asking him to intervene and stop what he termed “genocide” in the Kerio Valley. (Edited by V. Graham)