At Vikutsa Primary School in Shinyalu, Kakamega, pupils are in the playground oblivious of a land dispute pitting a family and the school. Ownership of the 11 acres the school is built on has been in dispute for years. The community and the school management is on one side and the family of six on the other. On November 16, 2020, Justice Nelly Mutheka of the Environment and Land Court delivered the judgment in favour of the six family members. She listed Moses Abwoba, Sabeti Mudeku, David Amuhanda, Luka Mudegu, Daniel Luva and Benson Tigu as the bona fide owners of the land. However, attempts by the family to retake the land they say the school encroached on in 1976, turned chaotic in January last year. The incident left some people with injuries and property worth thousands of shillings destroyed. The family is yet to recover the land and the school is still occupying it despite the court ruling. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito was sucked into the feud on the community side and is facing damage to property charges as a result. The school had filed an application seeking orders to evict the family on claims of ownership of the land under adverse possession, having occupied the parcel for 12 years. The court, however, dismissed the application on grounds that it lacked merit. The judgment says the school lacked grounds to appear in court over the land after it lost a case it filed in 2016 on the matter. The family argues that their father Zedekiah Amuhanda was registered the owner of the land in 1976 and the claim that he donated the land in 1974 was untrue because they should have been issued with a title deed during succession of the estate. Mudeku says when his father was alive in the early 1980s, he complained to the local administration about encroachment on his parcel by the school. Amuhanda died on June 30, 1987. “If the school had right on our land by 1974 as they claim, they would not have let Amuhanda obtain the title,” he says. “It was unbelievable seeing pupils pull our crops from our farm claiming we had grabbed it. It was that bad when we had in fact donated over an acre piece to them,” Mudeku says. She says that she, together with her brother Luva, suffered serious injuries and their property destroyed by pupils and the community in a scuffle that ensued after they laid claim to the land in January last year. They sealed off the school gate, cultivated the playing field and pinned the court judgment all over the place. But the community turned wild and attacked them, forcing them to flee for safety. The school says it had some papers to prove ownership of the land but they got lost after the school offices were broken into in 2009. It argues that it had held the land as an undisputed possession for over 12 years from 1973 when it was handed over to them by a well-meaning Amuhanda. Peter Marema, who went to court on behalf of the school, argues that the institution should have been included in the succession process of the land. Marema recalls that he was a Sunday School teacher in 1973 when Amuhanda donated the land to the school. He says the exclusion of the school from the succession process invalidates the administration grants of the parcel issued by the High Court. The court held that lack of documentation on ownership of the land by the school makes it a stranger in any attempt to overturn the grants. MP Kizito says Amuhanda donated the land to build Vikutsa primary in 1973, but his grandchildren are going against his wishes. “The old man was a preacher and a very good man by all standards if you ask around. He was the first chairman of the school and until his death no one complained about the land. Then after his death his grandsons came up with the claim,” he says. The legislator says he is aware of the court judgments and rulings that are in favour of the family but has vowed to go back to court over the matter. “I'm an educationist and planning to set up a staff room and eight classrooms on the parcel. The land is big enough to house a secondary section,” he says. Edited by A.N