Despite running away with the National Cross Country title, Samuel Chebolei says he is yet to decide whether he will compete at the Agnes Tirop Memorial World Cross Country Tour on February 12 in Eldoret. The double national junior champion made his senior cross country debut in style, overcoming a star-studded field to beat the tape in 28:28.9, ahead of Western's Kennedy Kiprop (29:35.2) and Central Rift's Vincent Kiprotich (30:02.6). Nonetheless, the Nippon Sport Science University 5,000m champion says he has to assess his physical fitness before he makes a final decision on the global event, to be held at the same venue —Lobo Village. "It (World Cross Country Tour) is something I am still unsure about because I have to go back and look at my level of physical preparedness. If I will be in peak condition, then I do not mind competing at the Tour," Chebolei said. However, July's World Championships in Oregon, United States is one competition that holds a central place in the 20-year-old's heart. Chebolei — younger brother to 2014 Commonwealth 1,500m silver medalist Ronald Kwemoi — is optimistic he will be part of Team Kenya's squad to the biennial championship where he is likely to specialise in the 5,000m race. "You know this year there is the World Championships and that is where everyone's focus is, including mine. I want to work hard towards it and hopefully, I will make the final team. I know I can do wonderful things in Oregon if I make it there," he said. Chebolei will be hoping the rest of the year's competitions produce the same returns as the national cross country competition after a disappointing campaign at the Tokyo Olympics last year, where he failed to compete in Heat Two of the men's 5000m. At Lobo Village, he pulled a tactical masterstroke as he bid his time behind the leading pack before unleashing a powerful kick to take control of the race and snatch the crown from pre-race favourites. "My plan was to take my time and see how the race would pan out and whoever would take control of it. I saw that no one was really keen on doing that and so I assumed the onus to run away with it. I am glad that I won and thank God for the victory," he said. The annual championship was a dry run for the World Cross Country Tour, which will bring together local and international athletes, including former world half marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor and 5000m and 10,000m women's world record holder Letesenbet Gidey of Ethiopia.