At least 500 households in Hareri, Mandera county, received food from the Methodist Church to ease the effects of drought. The church on Sunday distributed maize, beans, cooking oil and face mask to residents as part of intervention. Martin Gikunda, a church representative, said the Methodist Church has been going around distributing food to drought-stricken areas in the north. "Since the beginning of the year, we have been going round in all the affected counties, where we distributed food to a number of affected households," he said. Gikunda said so far they have distributed food to more than 2,500 households. "We have distributed food to 500 households in Mandera, 300 in Isiolo, 1,100 in Samburu and 900 in Marsabit," he said. Mandera assistant county commissioner Jesse Ithae said their effort is timely and supplements government efforts of feeding the vulnerable population. "I want to thank the Methodist church for this great support, we are deeply touched. I wish to urge more humanitarian agencies and well-wishers to help the community before the situation worsens," Ithae said. He said the government through the cash transfer programme has enroled 29,878 who receive Sh3,000 every month as away of cushioning them from the pangs of hunger due to severe drought. Ithae applauded the Methodist church saying helping the needy is not a religion but humanity. The commissioner challenged all non -governmental organisations particularly those operating in Mandera to chip in and supplement government efforts of feeding the vulnerable in society. "This is a good indicator that our nation Kenya is one. This initiative by the Methodist church is a clear indicator that we are all one people and we should avoid religion discrimination," Githae added. Hareri chief Hussein Diss also thanked government and well wishers who have been in the front line in helping the community in times of need. Last September, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared drought a national disaster, after findings indicated more than 10 counties mostly in northern Kenya were seriously affected. Most of these counties are yet to recover from a recent locust invasion. The region has not received adequate rainfall for the last two consecutive years and this has affected the pastoralists livelihood. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)