There was celebration in Seme as Okuto community launched its own library in West Seme Ward, Kisumu county. The library was constructed at the cost of Sh2 million on a parcel of land donated by the community through the Okuto Primary School fraternity. According to Benter Ndeda the Founder of Aniga Community Based Organisation, the community library construction was thought about in an informal discussion between a few members of the Okuto community. "We have a reason to celebrate this big achievement, calling on the community to come together in addressing other emerging challenges," she said during the launch. Ndeda said the main purpose was towards boosting the community’s pupils and students’ academic performance. "For the period between the years 2017, 2018 to 2019, community volunteers came together, walking around and they were literally fundraising towards the noble project." She said it was at this point of fundraising and mobilisation that she was approached by the committee that was spearheading the same initiative to at least support. Benter’s support alongside the Aniga team, in collaboration with the community representatives, a proposal was done and eventually a potential Donor was identified. The Kenya Community Development Foundation (KCDF) who offered to support in the funding of the project on a 50-50 funding term, between KCDF and the Okuto community. The estimated cost of the library structure was placed at around Sh2 million inclusive of administrative costs, and it was agreed that the community was supposed to mobilise and raise at least Sh1 million and KCDF would top up the remaining amount. Through the WhatsApp group, for instance an amount close to Half a million both in kind and in Cash was collected, and added to the initial collection, bringing the total to the Sh1 million required by the donor as part of the community’s contribution. The donor Terms and Conditions were subsequently met, and the funding was released by KCDF in support of the same. The design According to Ndeda, the design is meant to serve various groups within the community in different ways including school going children both in Primary and secondary levels. The youth in colleges, professionals such as teachers, nurses, doctors and civil servants working within West Seme, and the neighboring localities have a one stop point to make reference related to their various fields of work. The vast community members can make use of the designated community hall for various events and meetings, and with time various services would be offered easily from the same facility.  Edited by B. Oruta