Vihiga Queens coach Boniface Nyamunyamu admits to being clueless in regard to the future of star forward Tereza Engesha, who continues to draw interest from across Europe. The lanky goal-poacher scored a hat-trick against Kayole Starlets on Sunday to take her tally of the season to six goals, firing the team to the top of the Kenya Women Premier League standings with maximum 15 points. Engesha has won three national titles with Vihiga and was influential in the Confederation of Africa Football Women's Champions League, once named Woman of the match against AS FAR of Morocco. Queens beat the North Africans 2-0. Vihiga's main objective is to regain the WPL title they lost to Thika Queens last season. Engesha is driving Queens' charge for the gong but there are no guarantees that the 27-year-old will stay until the end of the season. Vihiga have already lost goalkeeper Lilian Awuor to Soyaux Women Football Club of France on a three-year deal. "We are between a rock and a hard place. We all know how important Terry is to the team but no decision over her future yet. Teams are queuing up for her signature as discussions continue but she has regularly delivered," he said. "She is a professional who can't allow rumours to affect her performances. It will be a big blow losing her but it presents another youngster with the opportunity to make a mark." Engesha was the 2019 Kenya Footballers Welfare Association player of the year after scoring 36 goals. She featured in the KEFWA 11 for the 2020/21 season and has previously won the golden boot. Nyamunyamu also had kind words for teenage goalkeeper Sophy Akinyi, who kept her first clean sheet in the 6-0 drubbing of Kayole. Akinyi, tasked to replace Awour, was the subject of criticism after conceding easy goals against Kisumu All Starlets in the 4-3 win. "She rectified the flaws against Kisumu and the clean sheet will boost her morale. She needs time to establish herself and the more she plays, the better she becomes," said Nyamunyamu. 