Homa Bay gubernatorial race is expected to be tight after former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga was endorsed by elders of greater Rachuonyo region. Magwanga was crowned by elders of the Great Rachuonyo Elders' Forum. The elders hail from three populous constituencies of Karachuonyo, Kasipul and Kabondo Kasipul. Phares Ogada who is the chairman of the forum led the elders in installing Magwanga as their preferred candidate. Ogada said they settled on Magwanga after interrogating him alongside other three governor aspirants. The ceremony involved giving Magwanga the traditional instruments, which according to the Luo community denotes power. The instruments included a spear, a three legged traditional stool, shield and a traditional hat made of animal skin. Ogada said Magwanga has now received the elders’ blessings to go and seek votes from the remaining five constituencies in Homa Bay. “Magwanga has been granted the instruments of power to lead the people of this region and in seeking the governor seat. We’re fully behind him because he is capable of leading the county,” Ogada said. Speaking during the event at Kosele stadium in Kasipul constituency on Monday, Ogada said they started the process of vetting the aspirants in August last year. He says they settled on Magwanga two weeks ago. “We considered various factors including the development records of where they have worked before. Magwanga emerged the best through voting done by 25 panelists from the three constituencies,” Ogada said. The elders forum secretary Jack Ong'iyo and member Okinyi Rawo said the work of elders should not be taken lightly. He said it is wrong for some people to question the credibility of elders. Ong’iyo said the elders approved Magwanga because they understand his character traits. “I am a university lecturer and my colleagues are also professionals in other fields. We are credible people endowed with knowledge and wisdom,” Ong’iyo said. The coronation means the region now recognises Magwanga as the sole governor aspirant whom they will support. The elders forum urged voters from the other five constituencies to support Magwanga. “We also conducted a survey and discovered that Magwanga has support in constituencies outside Rachuonyo region,” Rawo said. The elders endorsement was supported by the chairman of the Lake Basin Development Authority Odoyo Owidi who said it will prevent splitting of votes. “This is what I have been calling our people to undertake. Facing the governor race with many aspirants will lead to pilferage of votes and this can deny us victory as the people of Rachuonyo region,” Owidi said. Magwanga said the coronation resulted from his development track record. “In 2017, my constituency was number one countrywide in CDF disbursement. My development record is unquestionable and I deserve this endorsement,” he said. He promised to improve the livelihoods of Homa Bay residents by investing in health, agriculture, water, fishing, education and among other sectors. “I must make sure our people are healthy by improving healthcare system and enhancing food security,” Magwanga said.