Women have taken the lead in voter education in Mombasa. Led by Lilian Otieno, the women feel the male folk have been too engrossed in campaigns and have forgotten to sensitise the youth to register as voters. The women have requested their fellows across the country to deny men conjugal rights if they do not have a voters card. “As women, we bear the brunt of election malfunctions. We have to lead in ensuring there is no more violence in elections and people register as voters,” Otieno said. She spoke during the voter sensitisation in Changamwe and Jomvu constituencies on Saturday. Otieno said women have put aside their political affiliations to work together to ensure those eligible register. “Women run homes. They know how to talk to their men and children and convince them to do certain things,” she said. Otieno said people should register in nearby polling stations. “You never know when the elections day comes, you might lack transport to travel a long distance,” she said. The women mobilisers said they will do a door-to-door campaign. They want the IEBC to go slow on the requirement to have a letter from the area chief if one wants to transfer their polling station. The IEBC says one must acquire a letter of authorisation from the local chief if they seek to transfer from one polling station to another, especially if it involves cross constituency transfers. However, Changamwe IEBC voter educator Susan Akoth said the requirement was brought about after reports of strangers voting in different areas increased. “When IEBC learnt that there were people who were voting in areas where they had never been seen before, it raised questions,” Akoth said. “It was assumed these people had been ferried from other areas by unscrupulous politicians. IEBC saw it necessary to have the chiefs confirm they were the people who were transferring their voting stations.” She said the turn up has improved and more youth are now registering as voters after a slow start. She attributes this to increased voter education. Akoth said some national ID cards have been taken to schools like Changamwe Secondary School where students who have attained 18 years are being registered as voters. “When Covid-19 came, schools were closed. By the time they came back, some had attained the legal age to enable them to acquire national ID cards,” she said Edited by Kiilu Damaris