Security officers in Lamu have launched a search for two men abducted by suspected al Shabaab militants in Kibokoni, Lamu West, on Tuesday. Initially, three men, all wine tappers, had been abducted at around 5pm but one of them fled from his captors and reported the incident to the police. They were captured as they went to check their wine traps inside the Boni Forest when they came face to face with the militants who then took them captive. The group of militants is believed to be behind a recent spate of attacks that has left seven people dead and several houses torched. Lamu county police commander Moses Murithi said security officers have been working round the clock to find the missing men but have yet to trace them. He said the officers were working closely with the man who escaped to help them in their search for the two wine tappers. “The wine tapper informed us that they had gone into the forest to tap with two of his friends when they encountered the suspects who took them hostage. He was however able to escape and informed us. We are using the information he provided to ascertain the whereabouts of the two men,” Murithi said. Tension has continued to build in the area and neighbouring areas as residents fear more attacks. Residents have called on Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to intervene and ensure security is restored and the militants apprehended. On Sunday, six people were killed by suspected al Shabaab militants at Witho shopping centre. Four people were set ablaze inside the Murimi Mangwe drinking den and burnt beyond recognition. They were identified as den owner John Murimi and his three casual workers, Peter Musyoka, Maina Wanjege and Peter Maina, who had their hands tied from behind. The fifth person identified as Joseph Mwangi, who is also a village elder in Witho, was beheaded at his home and his house torched. He also had multiple stab wounds to his stomach. The sixth casualty was identified as Francis Kamau who had mysteriously disappeared on Sunday morning before his body was found along the road within Witho shopping centre. The body had gunshot wounds to the head. The seventh casualty is John Gichoya, 62, of Bobo-Sunkia village in Hindi, Lamu West, who had his hands and legs bound behind his back before he was killed and his house set ablaze with the body inside on Monday night, just a day after the six were killed. At least eight suspects have been arrested in connection with the attacks and killings, with police and other security agencies still pursuing more. They are being processed for prosecution on terror charges at the Mpeketoni law courts.    -Edited by SKanyara