The drought situation in the country continues to affect more families, especially in the Arid and Semi-Arid counties. Marsabit county has been the worst hit with an estimated 450,000 people in dire need of relief food, water and other essentials. This has been attributed to poor rains that have been recorded during the past two seasons, worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic, insecurity in the Northern counties, pests and diseases. Other counties in need of emergency response include Garissa, Kilifi, Wajir, Isiolo, Kwale, Mandera and Turkana. The situation in Lamu has been worsened by the recent attacks by militiamen that have led to the displacement of more than 300 families. At least 15 people have been killed and several houses torched. “We call upon the national government and development partners to collaborate with the affected counties to ensure the provision of timely food and water to save livelihoods,” Council of Governor's chairperson Martin Wambora said. “The county has provided water trucking in the most affected subcounties.” The Marsabit county government has distributed more than 20,000 bags of rice, 80,000 bags of beans and other essentials, to help mitigate the situation. Ironically, counties such as Marsabit are affected by the double burden of drought and flash floods. Last week, over 1,500 sheep and goats were swept away by raging floods. According to the World Food Programme, when the ground is too dry, it can’t absorb rain fast enough so the water runs over land, flooding the surrounding area. This comes barely a month after the National Drought Management Authority warned the number of people in dire need of humanitarian aid in the country has gone up to 2.8 million in December up from 2.1 million in August. The report has raised an alarm the drought spell experienced in the country last year led to the death of more than 1.4 million livestock in at least 15 counties. “The pasture is expected to last about two months. The late start to the current short rains has badly delayed or even deferred planting. The area with planted crops across Kenya is estimated to be 50 to 65 per cent below normal,” the NDMA report said. Similarly, the Global Hunger Index 2021 released on Wednesday showed Kenya’s fight against hunger is dangerously off the track, after having a score of 23 and ranking in position 87, putting the country among those whose hunger situation is serious. On Monday, Public Service CS Margaret Kobia said some of the interventions the government has made include the release of Sh8.5 billion this month, towards vulnerable families through the Inua Jamii programme. The government, last year, declared drought a national disaster. The head of nutrition at the Health ministry Veronica Kirogo says 26 per cent of malnutrition has been recorded. Kirogo says a child born in Kenya today can only achieve 55 per cent of their maximum potential in terms of productivity. “That is exactly what hunger has done to this country, reduced productivity and economic development,” she said. “Sh374 billion was being lost per year.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris