Garissa Governor Ali Korane on Monday urged school heads not to be in a hurry to send students home for fees. Korane spoke at the Garissa Agriculture Training Institute when he distributed bursary cheques worth Sh40 million to 1,749 students from 57 institutions of higher learning. He said farmers are yet to recover from the effects of drought that wiped out most of their livestock. "We understand that it is difficult to run the schools without money, but again it will not make sense to send students home for fees when their parents have nothing to give. "That's why we have chosen to continue committing substantial amounts of funds. I therefore, would not wish to see school heads sending students home under the prevailing circumstances," the governor said. Korane, who was accompanied by Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane, said his administration was obligated to assist parents facing hard times. He said drought hurt the livestock business, which is the economic mainstay for the majority of residents. Korane said all subcounties were considered in a fair disbursement where bursary committees representing each subcounty were drawn from grassroots level. “Poverty and lack of adequate teachers remains a major challenge to the education progress in the region. The only way to bridge the gap is by ensuring that we educate our young ones as well as make sure we continue calling on them to prioritise teaching courses,” Korane said. He said his administration will continue to pay school fees for all those who take teaching courses. The governor promised more resources in next year's bursary allocation. He emphasised the need for local institutions to enhance scholarship opportunities for youth. Garissa University vice chancellor Ahmed Osman Warfa who spoke on behalf of all institutions, urged the county government to increase the allocation in the next financial year. He said the fund has helped many but more needy students are left out. Education chief officer Mohamed Gure, minority leader Mohamed Ali, chairperson of the committee for education Aden Abaile and Banane MCA Mohamed Siyat were present at the function. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)