Health professionals have vowed to scrutinize manifestos of all presidential and governors candidates to see their plans for revival of the ailing sector. They shall do so through all their professional unions as early as March when they shall hold a national health conference. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers chairperson Peterson Wachira said health workers will put the politicians to task on how they shall tackle the sector once they assume leadership roles. They would like to know how the politicians intend to restore public confidence in public hospitals  as well as  improve the welfare of medics. “For a long time, our professional bodies have been quiet and that has exposed our health sector to a debilitating state.  However, all is not lost because moving forward we shall invite all those candidates and  interrogate their manifestos because there is a dire need to improve our health sector,” Wachira said. He added that they shall influence their members to support candidates who have demonstrated competence in the health docket. They call out all those who have messed up health services through sacking of their members and neglecting the health facilities. Wachira said county administrations that are illegally dismissing health workers are causing suffering and poverty as for every health worker that is sacked, three  more job losses are  registered. Speaking in Kirinyaga, Wachira added that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation, thus health should be a priority for every development oriented leader. “You can’t talk about developing a nation without proper strategies and policies on how to improve the health docket. The productivity of a nation is greatly influenced by its health state and for that sake we shall look forward to working with those who have the interest of the sector at heart," the unionist said. “This time around we shall not vote blindly, we shall support those who have shown support for us and have shown compassion to our members through adhering to labour laws and the Bills of Rights.” The KUCO boss spoke on Friday during a thanksgiving service for 359 medics who were dismissed three years ago by the Kirinyaga county government for participating in an illegal strike. Wachira told off the county government for taking the action despite the Public Service Commission having ordered their reinstatement. Moreover, he added, the court ordered the county government  to take disciplinary action but not sack them. “We sought the court’s interpretation on its directive and nowhere it stated that Kirinyag medics should be shown the door. We shall continue to call out the county government because it acted in contravention of the court order.” Out of all the dismissed medics, Wachira stated that 98 per cent hailed from Kirinyaga and their effort to reach out to the county boss Ann Waiguru to solve the impasse has since proved futile . “Under the Occupational and Safety Act, workers have a right to picket should they be exposed to a non-conducive working environment. Rather than sacking those picketing, the authorities should provide remedies on how to improve their welfare.” Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri regretted the misfortunes that befell the medics and pledged to stand with them in getting back their jobs. “I’m ashamed to be a part of an administration that is not compassionate and does not respect its workers’ rights. I share in your agony because every time I raise your concerns, I get into more trouble with my former boss because she no longer is my boss,” he said. “Moving forward, I pledge to support you in getting back your jobs because I forcefully got my office back.” Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirichi promised to reinstate without conditions all the sacked medics should she succeed to be the next county chief in the August elections. She regretted that the medics had suffered under the hands of a ruthless government that cared less about their concerns. “I promise to be a listening, motherly and compassionate friend once I clinch this seat. I will make sure that all the fired medics are reinstated with no conditions. It gives me hope that the majority of the county residents are standing with you,” she said. Wambui Karigi, the sacked medics’ secretary general, said that it has been a tough journey for them as some of the colleagues have lost their lives to depression as others continue to undergo rehabilitation. On the brighter side, though, she noted that some have taken the opportunity to go back to medical school so that they can be more  resourceful when they resume their careers. Early last month, the county government through county secretary Joe Muriuki  said it shall not rehire them as they were replaced. Edited by Henry Makori