Newly acquired Kenya Police central defender Eric Juma says the urge to hoist a top-flight title and prove his mettle on the continental stage informed his move from Kariobangi Sharks. Juma has jumped ship after a massive 17-year stint with Sharks, having joined Sharks in 2006 during their nascent years in the lower tiers. And after finally managing to shake off a nagging injury he sustained during a league encounter mid-last year, Juma reckons he is now ready to steer the law enforcers to a landmark top-flight title in their maiden season. “My decision to pen a deal with Kenya Police has nothing to do with financial incentives as many people might have thought. I simply yearn for a new challenge. I'm also keen to win the title Kenyan Premier League title, and perhaps, I might be able to do so at my new club,” he said. Juma says he had to muster sufficient courage to disentangle himself from a past he had grown so much fond of. A poetic message he penned to his teammates to alert them of his departure laid bare his inner struggles with the decision he made. “It's been 17 years since I joined Kariobangi Sharks. I don't know how I can express my feelings and emotions. You guys have been part and parcel of my life and my daily routine, all my life has revolved around you,” Juma. “I want to take this opportunity to thank my entire Sharks fraternity from the youngest player through the technical bench and the executive office for the good years and moments we shared," says Juma. “I have learned a lot on and off the pitch through this great family. To my boys, you've been good lads and teammates. Continue with the good work, the spirit, and the level of discipline you guys showed." Juma spent his formative years playing football on the dusty fields of the populous Kariobangi slums in Nairobi’s Eastlands while attending Kariobangi North Primary School. He developed a keen interest in football while accompanying his elder brothers to competitive matches. During his first years at Sharks, he was deployed as a midfielder and in 2017, he helped Sharks get promoted to the Kenyan Premier League (KPL). He, however, had to wait until 2018 for his cameo appearance in the league, coming on as a second-half substitute for Vincent Wasambo in their match against Posta Rangers at Camp Toyoyo. Juma leaves Kariobangi Sharks with his head held high after guiding them to substantive titles as a captain. He wore the armband when they silenced KPL regulars Ulinzi Stars in the final of the FKF SportPesa Shield as well as when they lifted the title in Tanzania to book a date with Everton as East Africa’s representative. 