Khwisero Member of Parliament Christopher Aseka is the latest ANC member to abandon Musalia Mudavadi after his Sunday's 'earthquake' announcement. Aseka on Sunday evening officially announced that he was ditching ANC for Raila's Azimio la Umoja. "The past two months I've not seen a future with ANC. We as ANC have always been team Raila now they have started making deals with DP William Ruto," Aseka said during a function in Kwisero. "I told them here at Kwisero, it is hard for the wheelbarrow to fit." Aseka went ahead to say that he declined the invitation to attend Mudavadi's presidential bid launch at Bomas of Kenya because Ruto was the guest of honour. "That conference was not for ANC, it was UDA's. And so I knew since the party is headed to the wheelbarrows, I packed all my belongings and left. I'm now in Azimio la Umoja," he said. On Sunday, Mudavadi dismissed any chance of partnering with ODM party leader Raila Odinga. "...the ANC stand which I am privileged to announce is that the spector called Azimio, is not an option when it comes to partnership," Mudavadi said. "Wamepoteza frequency na network." He added, "We have had enough of this self preservation schemes, tumechoka. Enough is enough." Weeks ago, Mudavadi castigated President Uhuru Kenyatta for appearing to ask Kenyans to back the candidature of his handshake partner Raila in the 2022 race. “We do not want anybody, even at the lowest level, to feel intimidated when making their 2022 choices,” Mudavadi said. Days after his remarks, Mudavadi was delt a major blow when ANC deputy party leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula left the party and backed Raila for President. The MP said the 2022 presidential contest is a two-horse race between Raila and Deputy President William Ruto. The influential MP who has been a close ally of Musalia, announced that he has also ceased any engagements with the One Kenya Alliance. "I have not defected from ANC but i have today officially joined the Azimio La Umoja," declared Savula. He has since been received at DAP-K and made deputy party leader.