The world is evolving and everyone is going digital with everything getting automated, beginning with home appliances. With this happening, climate change is becoming a bigger problem. To mitigate this, more countries and companies are recognizing the benefits of manufacturing or developing energy-saving products and services that in return effectively reduce energy bills, drive product innovation, create jobs and even reduce carbon emissions costs. Companies such as LG are up to speed on that by adopting smart home artificial intelligence (AI) technology that optimizes the home appliances to achieve excellent performance and energy usage, improves usability by operating various functions that heighten convenience and ease of use. According to LGThinQ 2021 smart home trend report, 17.3 per cent of its products and services users chose energy saving as the leading smart home benefit. Other benefits selected include making things enjoyable, more useful, time-saving, safe, proud and money-saving. The LG bottom freezer refrigerator introduced in 2021 comes featuring two times folding shelves and has a big capacity with thin insulation, therefore using less energy to keep the refrigerator and freeze cold. The new AI powered washing machine it has, reduces clothes damage by offering 18 per cent more fabric protection while using 39 per cent less energy-saving consumers' energy costs. In addition, using the LGThinQ app, enables users of their television sets to adjust settings on their air conditioner to avoid wasting power or download specialized cycles for the washer to minimize water usage. Samsung has also not been left behind with its smart home appliances. They have the smart things application that helps you connect a myriad of devices thus help in energy saving. With just a click of a button on your smartphone, you can switch off the TV or lights before you go to sleep no need to go to the socket. You can add security devices to your SmartThings account by scanning for them or selecting them manually. They have recently announced that they will be establishing smart homes in a new smart city in Korea. It will provide numerous smart devices to the village including refrigerators, washing machines, dryers, vacuum cleaners, and air monitors. On top of this, Samsung will supply services aiming to boost the quality of life for residents such as air monitors, purifiers, and ventilation devices that will work together to provide cleaner air. The refrigerator will also suggest recipes for you based on the crops grown at local smart farms. The level of ownership and use of such appliances are set to grow as the world gets wealthier, warmer, more urbanized, and populous. For instance, global energy demand for cooling could triple between 2020 and 2050 as air conditioning becomes more affordable to greater numbers of people in emerging economies.