Heavily armed police officers on Monday night stormed businessman Jimi Wanjigi's Westlands offices. The police raided the offices around 9: 30 pm and as per CCTV images, they were still at the premises as of 10:30 pm. His Lawyer  Willis Otieno has confirmed the raid. Comedian Eric Omondi who was in a meeting with Wanjigi at the offices at the time of the raid said the officers were from the elite group flying squad. "Flying squad wako kwa gate na sisi tuko ndani meeting( Fly squad are at the gate and we are inside holding a meeting," he wrote on his social media handle. The office hosts official activities of Kwacha Group of companies and is located off General Mathenge Road in Parklands. It also coordinates Wanjigi's campaign activities. The businessman is eyeing the presidency. The tycoon was reportedly holed up in his office together with his son during the raid. A section of Kenyans took to social media to protest the raiding terming it unconstitutional and inhuman. Lawyer Ahmmednasir Abdullahi condemned the police for the incident and called on the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to follow proper channels when pursuing suspects. Ahmednasir linked Wanjigi's woes to his presidential ambitions saying he is being harassed to back down in his bid to dislodge ODM leader Raila Odinga as the Orange party's flagbearer. "It's very obvious that Jimi Wanjigi is being harassed by the police in order to allow Hon Raila to have a free run in the ODM Presidential nominations," he said. Lawyer Miguna Miguna also weighed in on the developments and said: "If you want to arrest anyone, attend at their homes during day time and serve them with a warrant of arrest. Don't attack in darkness in civilian clothes". The raid comes years after the police raided his home in Muthaiga in October 2017 in a dramatic incident that saw the ODM leader Raila and his allies pitch a tent at the home the whole night. The raid saw five AK 47 guns and hundreds of bullets recovered. Attempts by police to arrest the billionaire that night failed as police could not locate him in his house. The billionaire had been accused of smuggling guns into the country with accomplices.