A Kirinyaga woman charged with the murder of her husband now seeks a lesser offence of manslaughter. Jedidah Wanja is accused of stabbing to death Denis Magu on December 15 last year. Magu was the Kiamugumo assistant chief. Wanja has filed an application seeking to have her murder charge substituted with manslaughter. Those convicted of murder are often sentenced to life imprisonment while manslaughter attracts jail terms of 25 years or less. Wanja has since denied killing her husband. She was charged before judge Hatari Waweru at the High Court in Nanyuki. Magu, 36, was the son of Kirinyaga county nominated MCA Rose Njeru. It is alleged the couple fought after a domestic quarrel. Through her lawyer Kemunto Magara, Wanja on Tuesday told judge Richard Mwongo of the High Court in Kerugoya that she has served a pre-bargain request to the office of the DPP for consideration and the lead prosecutor Vincent Mamba confirmed receipt. Wanja also pleaded with the court through the judge Mwongo to release her on reasonable bond terms, a request that was vehemently objected to by the deceased's family lawyer Mwangi Ndegwa. Ndegwa cited fear of interference with the lined up witnesses by the accused. He said among the main witnesses into the case were the suspect's two minors whose testimonies stand to be interfered with should the accused be released. Prior to Ndegwa' objection, Magara had told court that it was the accused's constitutional right to be granted bail as there were no compelling reasons to continue holding her. She further told court that by the time the proceedings were underway, no new issues had been adduced into the matter. Wanja who covered her face throughout the court proceedings, further defended her release pledging to comply with all directives issued by the court. Both prosecution and victim's lawyer requested the defense team to serve them with a formal bail application to which the court granted. Mwongo authorised both bail and response applications to be filed and served to the necessary parties on or before February 1,2022. In addition, he authorised that on February 8, the court should be provided with an impact assessment report on the accused so as to consider whether she is fit for release. "The probation officer needs to conduct a probe on her background, social status and whether if released her security will be guaranteed. If not, what other options are necessary to ensure her safety,"said the judge. At the same time Mwongo directed the defense to give clearer substantiation on the bail terms the accused seeks to be released with. He expressed his dissatisfaction over the term ‘reasonable bail’ citing that it was ‘vague’.