Kariobangi Sharks’ lethal striker Felix Oluoch reckons the youngsters brought in from the academy side to fill the shoes of injured regulars will pull off a pleasant surprise against Kakamega Homeboyz. Oluoch said fielding a vibrant squad full of bubbly youngsters hardly known to their opponents might work to the team's advantage at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. At least eight Sharks' luminaries are nursing serious injuries that threaten to ruin their season. “The fact that we are an entirely new squad works to our advantage given that our opponents still can't figure out how to approach us. They've seen few of us in action in the past and that makes it difficult to plan against us,” said Oluoch “At least eight of our first team players are currently nursing injuries including skipper Patilla Omotto, Geoffrey Lemu and Samuel Olwande." “Basically, our entire backline is missing and the coach has turned to the academy side for help in our tie against Kakamega Homeboyz,” he added. Despite the setback, Oluoch has tipped the coach William Muluya-tutored side to claim the scalp of the more fancied Homeboyz, who have stumbled only once in 11 league outings. “We were in the same situation when we edged Ulinzi Stars 1-0 in Nakuru in our last league encounter at ASK Grounds last Wednesday,” said Oluoch “The result boosted our morale and made us believe in the team's ability to thrive even in the absence of the seasoned squad members.” There is a justifiable reason why the former AP Bomet marksman happens to be the toast for Kariobangi Sharks at the moment. He has been wolfing down goals in the Kenyan Premier League like nobody's business. With seven goals already safely tucked away in the bag, the only threat to his dream of a maiden Golden Boot accolade is the experienced fleet-footed Kenya Police forward Clifton Miheso, who has eight goals thus far. “I believe I’m still on track towards my objective of scoring at least 15 goals this season and possibly emerge the Golden Boot winner,” said Oluoch. “I'm aiming for 10 goals in the first half of the season. This will make my work quite easier going forward." Part of his lofty targets for the season is to don the national team colours.