Strathmore Leos host top-of-the-table Menengai Oilers in a mouthwatering Kenya Cup clash at Madaraka as the race for the playoffs intensifies. The two sides had contrasting wins last weekend with the Leos snatching a last-minute 19-17 win over Quins last weekend at the RFUEA ground while Gibson Weru's charges made light work of Homeboyz, securing a 34-6 bonus point win in Nakuru. It promises to be game of fireworks between the two well-coached sides and Weru expects a stern test from the University side. “Strathmore are a good team. They were in the playoffs last season and if you look at their last two matches, they have shown grit and character to win matches in the final minutes,” noted Weru. Weru was, however, fancying his side's chances of winning following an unbeaten start to the campaign. "The boys are in good shape. We have had a good week of training and we relish the challenge," said Weru. The Nakuru-based side will want to set the tone upfront and will rely on skipper Chrispine Shitundo, hooker Stanley Isogol, second-row Ibrahim Ayoo with prop Edward Mwaura the pick of the forwards. In the backline, Samson Onsomu — signed from Impala Saracens — Geoffrey Ominde, John Okoth and Austin Sikutwa will be the key actors. The hosts will be led by Bethuel Muteshi in the forwards alongside Philemon Olang, Fanuel Aduda with Arnold Muita, Stephen Osumba and Bruson Madigu expected to spearhead the backline. Kabras, joint second alongside Strathmore, will be hoping to pile more misery on Quins when the two sides  clash at the Kakamega showground. The Ngong Road side lost narrowly in their last two fixtures, going down 16-15 to Oilers and 19-17 to Leos and face a stern test in their quest for playoff slots. In other fixtures, on form Mwamba  will be chasing a third consecutive win when they make the short trip to  Jamhuri Park to face Homeboyz while champions KCB entertain Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology at Ruaraka. Blak Blad entertain  Nondies at Kenyatta University while winless Nakuru host Impala.