Hundreds of Marsabit residents received food aid from the county government following an outcry occasioned by severe drought. While flagging off relief food on Monday, Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali said his administration has deployed resources to assist affected households with food. He also urged development partners, well wishers and national government to step in to cushion affected households. The governor flagged off lorries ferrying 20,000 bags of rice, 8,000 bags of beans and 6,000 carton of oils. Each beneficiary is expected to receive 15kgs of rice, 6kgs of beans and a litre of oil. Ali was accompanied by national government representative, members of county assembly and county officials. The county boss said the current drought worsened the situation as many households can't afford to put food on the table. "Despite the effort from the county government, the interventions that are necessary to save the lives of our people are immense," he said. Different organisations have also deployed resources such as cash transfers to ease food scarcity. Marsabit county like other northern counties, received less rainfall in the last four consecutive season. Asha Halakhe, 60, a beneficiary of the programme from Saku constituency urged the governor to continue with the assistance. She also urged residents to coexist peacefully saying the insecurity witnessed in Saku has affected residents and brings down the county's economy with businesses closing by 6pm. While urging residents to live in harmony, Governor Ali emphasised the need to beef up security across the county. He also urged the security agencies to reconsider the ban on boda boda and probox saying it will affect county's economy. According to the governor, commercial cyclists play a key role in the transport sector. Many families, he says, depend on boda boda for daily upkeep and the ban will render youth jobless. Boda boda chairman Kadiro Boru said motorbike transformed his life tremendously. He says the earning helped him provide for his family. He said hundreds of youths who operate boda boda have successfully changed their lives and the ban will reduce them to beggars. The government banned boda boda operations early last month due to increased insecurity in Saku. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)