Bandari's newly-acquired midfield sensation, Whyvonne Isuza, says their current status among the top four in the Kenyan Premier League provides them with an imperative edge to lay claim to the title this season. Isuza reckons their vast experience compared to Kakamega Homeboyz, KCB, and Nairobi City Stars — who are first, second and third respectively — makes them hot favourites to cruise to the winners' podium. “We are most certainly on the right track considering we are fourth on the log and only five points behind leaders Kakamega Homeboyz,” said Isuza. He said the entire team have buckled down to enrich the club's cabinet with the elusive silverware at the end of the season. “The management and the technical bench made their objective very clear that we should do our best to bring something significant home. I'm here to fire Bandari to major titles this season,” he added. The dockers have maintained a four-match unbeaten run since the fixtures resumed a month ago, following a mandatory two-week break occasioned by the prolonged public spat pitting the government against the ousted Football Kenya Federation administration. The coastal lads held Gor Mahia to a barren draw at Nyayo Stadium before squeezing out another solitary point from their one-all draw against Kariobangi Sharks at Mbaraki Stadium a week later. They then proceeded to edge Ulinzi Stars 1-0 before sharing spoils with debutants Kenya Police at Mbaraki Sports Club over the weekend. Isuza said he found it easy to blend into the side after arriving at the beginning of the season, having previously worked with Bandari head coach Andre Casa Mbungo during their days at AFC Leopards. “We have worked with Casa before and I know what he expects from me that’s why it was easy for me to adapt,” he said. He extolled his teammates for creating a conducive atmosphere that made it easy for him and other new signings to adapt quickly. “We have gelled quite well with the rest of the squad since our arrival at the beginning of the season and I believe we've made our presence well felt in all the matches we have featured in thus far,” said Isuza. Isuza kicked off his glittering top-flight career at Mathare United before decamping to AFC Leopards. He later joined Wazito as club president Ricardo Badeour moved to assemble a dream team with his sights firmly trained on silverware. Isuza said he wasn't entirely impressed with his statistics in the preceding season where he wrapped up with two goals and four assists, adding he hoped for a more fulfilling and rewarding performance this time around. "Of course, there was the Covid-19 pandemic that disrupted the fixtures. We didn't quite get sufficient time to train together as a team and there was no way we would have done our best," said Isuza.