An MP from Narok County has told Kenyans to interrogate leaders on their agenda for progress in this year’s elections. Narok South legislator Korei ole Lemein said the country needs a paradigm shift in leadership if Kenya is to progress as a nation. He cautioned Kenyans against voting in leaders who are selfish, corrupt, operate with impunity and perpetuate bad government. He said the reasons most people suffer is because of poor leadership. “This country needs development-conscious leaders who will work for the people while ensuring access to better services. Their leadership should be inclusive, freely interactive and focus on peace and unity,” said Lemein. He made the remarks after presiding over the handing over ceremony of a 62-seater bus at Ololulung’a Boys High School on Friday. The school bus project, which cost Sh12 million, was funded by the area National Government Constituency Development Fund. In attendance were area Deputy County Commissioner Felix Kisalu, area Sub County Education Director Stephen ole Sentero, School Principal Jacob Odera and KUPPET officials led by executive secretary Charles Ng’eno. He added that good leaders should work towards improving the lives of millions of Kenyans and not those making empty promises which they will not fulfill. Lemein also asked leaders to guard against making utterances that can unnecessarily cause panic and despondency among the citizenry. Lemein said there was also a need for leaders to put the interests of the country first before their own and always practice mature politics. “During electioneering period, there is a need for politicians to weigh their words while making public utterances lest they cause unnecessary tribal tension among the Kenyan communities,” he said. He said leaders should always be in the fore-front in promoting cohesion and national values for the sake of building a healthy and united nation devoid of tribalism. “Both the young and the old are looking upon us and we must be selective in the words that we use so that for the sake of the unity of purpose and posterity in the country,” he noted. The legislator said leaders should put their energies on issues that can bring the country together and not those which could create unnecessary confusion.