The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri on Friday ruled out joining Raila Odinga's Azimio La Umoja Movement, even as he maintained he was open to talks on coalition building. Kiunjuri dismissed claims that he had been contacted and accepted to join Azimio which enjoys the support of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We are disturbed that yesterday one of the senior leaders from Azimio and also in Jubilee purported to issue a statement whereby [he] masqueraded to speak on our behalf that TSP is already in talks to join Azimio," Kiunjuri said. "I want to make it very clear that we have never had any discussion with Azimio, not only with any of their leaders, but we have never had any discussion with them." He continued: “We have never opened that kind of a platform with them and we are not ready to open any discussion with any party [yet].” The former Agriculture CS said his party was still pondering which side of the divide to join but made it clear that he had inclination towards Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA. He will take a clear stand in the month of March, he added. “We said clearly two months ago that we will be issuing a statement in March to let Kenyans know which side and who we are going to support as the next president of Kenya. Already you know who my friend is but again we have never had any serious discussion with him,” he said. Kiunjuri has over the years been seen to have a soft spot for Ruto but the two reportedly differed after he formed his new party. The politician demanded that the Ruto's party forms a coalition of equals with TSP, a position that the DP has dismissed, calling on all who support him to troop to UDA. He said should the conversation between TSP and UDA begin, he should be given the same status as ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula. In the meantime, the party has been preparing itself for the August 9 polls by recruiting candidates, he said. And in the discussion he anticipates with UDA, he said his conditions are that TSP be acknowledged and respected as a strong party, but not as small outfit. “Anybody who wants to discuss with TSP must agree that it is a strong party, it is a national party, and is not a fringe party.” “Once we get to that conclusion that we are respecting each other as leaders of parties then we can open up a discussion. If there is no respect coming in, TSP is ready to go as a neutral party to the end." Kiunjuri also confirmed that he will be gunning for Laikipia East parliamentary seat, explaining that it will give him opportunity to build his clout for national politics. "If I went for governor, I would be confined in the village with no influence," he said. (edited by Amol Awuor)