The national government through the Universal Service Fund is set to build communication masts to boost mobile connectivity in terror-prone areas of Lamu county. The Universal Service Fund is a special fund through which the national government invests in building masts in marginalised areas, and offers mobile networks and radio frequencies with infrastructure to set up their signal in areas that would otherwise be ignored due to perceived lack of profitability or insecurity. The mobile service providers and radio frequency operators are then offered subsidies to set and operate their networks in the unserved areas. The Lamu exercise targets at least 19 masts across previously unserved areas that have been experiencing mobile and frequency connectivity challenges in the county. Targeted areas include Milimani, Mangai, and Basuba which are all inside the dense Boni forest where the government is undertaking a multi-agency security operation to flush out al Shabaab militants, dubbed Operation Amani Boni. Speaking in Lamu on Monday, Principal Administrative Secretary for ICT and Youth Affairs Eric Kiraithe said the Communications Authority had already ensured that 78 sublocations covering 330,342 people across 15 counties, were now being served under the first phase of the implementation of the Universal Service Fund. He said under the fund, areas that have been ignored due to insecurity in Lamu will largely benefit. Kiraithe said the government intends to ensure all areas are connected to the mobile network grid to enable security agencies tackle insecurity concerns promptly, especially within the Boni security operation areas. “Once the masts are up, the security response will definitely be tight plus the fact that e-connectivity will now be a reality enabling the government to serve its people better through Huduma services upon the improvement of mobile connectivity,” he said. He said mobile connectivity under the fund will also enable for 3G internet connectivity while at the same time improving the socioeconomic standing of previously marginalised areas. He said the rollout of the second phase of the USF programme is already underway with the expectation that the mobile masts will further supplement the government’s investment in two security roads that cut across the Boni area to improve security. “With mobile connectivity in place, schools in these areas will be able to effectively implement the competency based curriculum which has segments that are dependent on internet connectivity,”  Kiraithe said. Lamu Central Deputy County Commissioner Charles Kitheka lauded the initiative saying security response will improve greatly in the targeted areas since militants and criminals have mostly been taking advantage of the lack of mobile connectivity to carry out attacks and crimes. Insecurity challenges in the Boni area have been largely due to communication challenges.   -Edited by SKanyara