Lawmakers have proposed a new formula for the National Treasury to use in allocating money for political parties eligible for funding by taxpayers. They have rejected the National Treasury’s assertions as unconstitutional, a legal provision that allocates a fraction of national revenue to political parties. The Political Parties Act says the Treasury should give at least 0.3 per cent of revenue collected by the national government but has never given political parties the set amount. Treasury, in pushing for the scrapping of the percentages, sought a free hand to determine the amounts of money that go to the political parties. The Ukur Yatani-led ministry has asked political parties to work to develop a new framework for adequate funding of political parties. “We propose that the allocation to political parties should not be based on a percentage of revenue collected as this compromises the prioritization process during resource allocation,” Treasury said. MPs have rejected the call, only allowing the Treasury leave to determine a base for sharing the cash after deduction of county equitable share and Equalization Fund. In the proposed dispensation, MPs want political parties allocated 0.3 per cent of all the national government’s share of revenue as divided by the annual Division of Revenue Act. The amendment by Majority leader Amos Kimunya seeks to provide that the allocations be as determined by the National Assembly. “Section 24 of the principal Act is amended in subsection (1) (a) by deleting the words “the revenue collected by the national government as may be provided by Parliament,” the amendment reads. Going by the Division of Revenue Act, 2021, parties would be entitled to as much as Sh4.2 billion if the amendment sails through. Kimunya proposed that parties must at least clinch an elective seat in either of the elective categories to be eligible for funding through the parties kitty. “Notwithstanding subsection (1), a political party shall not be entitled to receive funding from the Fund if the party does not have an elected member of the National Assembly, an elected member of the Senate, an elected governor, or an elected member of a county assembly,” the new provision reads. Other conditions would be that political parties must ensure that not more than two-thirds of the office bearers are of the same gender. Parties would be denied cash if they do not have in their governing body, representation of special interest groups – women, youth, persons with disability and marginalised communities. ODM chairman John Mbadi had earlier suggested that the Treasury should seek whether the percentage should be on revenue collected or after meeting exchequer obligations. “What it should be discussing is what percentage they comfortable with – to say 0.1 per cent,” the Suba South MP said. ODM in July 2019 won a court battle over cash from the parties’ kitty after a three-judge bench awarded the Raila Odinga-led outfit Sh4.1 billion. The Orange party moved to court after the exchequer accrued arrears spanning over five years. It argued it had only received Sh100 million as opposed to the full amount set by the law creating the Political Parties Fund. Treasury, in its recent submission to Parliament on the subject, said other non-discretionary expenditures take the first charge in the budget. These include pensions, debt service, contingency funds and salaries across government agencies–constitutional commissions and ministries. The amendment by Kimunya, who is the sponsor of the Bill, has elicited a push by smaller parties for a proper definition of political party membership. Ugenya MP David Ochieng’ sought that a member of a coalition political party may either be a natural person or a registered political party. The MP, however, dropped the bid during the committee of the whole house debate on the proposed parties’ law on Wednesday. Edited by Kiilu Damaris.