The crunch tie between leaders Kakamega Homeboyz and second-placed Nairobi City Stars headline the midweek action as the Kenyan Premier League enters Round 15. The two sides flex muscles at Bukhungu Stadium in one of the four fixtures slated for Thursday. Homeboyz have experienced a near-perfect run this season, faltering just once at the hands of debutants FC Talanta to register nine wins and four draws. They rallied from a goal down to fend off a stiff challenge from last season's runners-up KCB, whom they saw off 3-2 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in one of the matches staged on Sunday. A win over City Stars will fire Benard Mwalala's side to eight points clear with 34, since their matchday opponents are currently second with 26. KCB will hope to bounce back from Sunday's loss when they flex muscles with Posta Rangers at Thika Stadium on Wednesday. The bankers could as well reclaim second spot if they beat the mailmen, who are seventh on the log with 22 points from six wins, four draws and two defeats, but with a game in hand. Record champions, Gor Mahia face Bidco United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. K'Ogalo cruised to a comfortable 2-0 win over newbies Talanta at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in their last outing to ascend to third on the log. A win over the Thika-based side is likely to fire them to second depending on how both fourth-placed KCB and City Stars fare in their outings. Kariobangi Sharks travel to Taita county to battle hosts Sofapaka at Wundanyi Stadium in an encounter pundits reckon could go either way. Whereas Sharks are fifth on the log with 24 points, their opponents are  10th with 19 points after blowing hot and cold so far this season. Nzoia Sugar will host Talanta at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma on Wednesday. The millers are a spot above the relegation zone with a paltry nine points, three above bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets. AFC Leopards host struggling Mathare United at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday. Both clubs are heading into the match on the back of losses. Leopards, 14th on the log with 14 points, lost 3-1 to Kariobangi Sharks while Mathare, who are in the drop zone with just seven points, fell 2-1 to Police. Tusker will square it off with Vihiga Bullets at Ruaraka grounds while Bandari and Wazito will lock horns at Mbaraki Sports Club in matches planned for Thursday.