The East African Portland Cement Company Ltd has been urged to lower prices for land it is selling to squatters in Mavoko, Machakos county. EAPCC has announced the disposal of property LR No. 8487/144 and 8784/145 listed as EAPCC Phase 1 land measuring 1,300 hectares (3,212 acres). Mavoko MP Patrick Makau said on Saturday the company should reduce prices and increase the time proposed for settling payments from three years to at least five years. The lawmaker said his requests were prompted by the fact that most of the squatters living on the land were struggling to make ends meet. They fear losing their land under proposed conditions reached by the cement company and some individuals, including lawyers. “The prices that have been proposed are high. We want them lowered and even the duration of payments reviewed upwards. We want the law and procedures followed to settle Kenyans elsewhere, like on the Waitiki land in the Coastal region, to be applied here," Makau said. He spoke during a public participation meeting on the land attended by the squatters and other stakeholders The squatters' leaders said they had negotiated with EAPCC management and reached final agreements on prices. They cited: one acre – Sh6,250,000; one-half acre – Sh3,125,000; 100x100 — Sh1,562,500; 50x00 – Sh892, 857; 40x100 – Sh625,000 and 40x60 – Sh520,000. The prices include title processing fees, stamp duty, capital gain tax by KRA and initial commitment deposit by real estate lender (IDM Homes Ltd). Each member, according to the agreement, had earlier been given one year from January 1, 2022, to pay for his/her respective plot. The payments should be made through Prime Bank Ltd, Hurlingham branch. Makau said he had negotiated with EAPCC and the payment timeline has been revised from one year to three years. “We want the government to assure us that there will be no demolitions here. And that even if we are staying, buildings here will be connected to water, electricity, good roads, health facilities and schools like other Kenyans,” Makau said. “If it’s possible, the Finance ministry can set aside some funds to cushion these squatters on this land in this year’s budget so that the time given can be reduced by the money you will give us,” Makau said. He said the ministries of Industrialisation, Interior and Lands should also intervene to hasten the process in residents' favour. The legislator added, “I promise to keep on fighting and engaging all the necessary agencies to ensure that all of you get titles as fast as possible." Squatters chairman Pius Musembi said they struggled to get to various government offices to prevent threats of demolitions on the EAPCC land. “With God’s grace, all the threats of forceful evictions and demolitions on this land ended. We requested that EAPCC sell us the land,” Musembi said. Musembi said they gained occupancy of the land in 2010. Tens of the squatters on the land have constructed houses alongside other structures. He said as squatters’ leaders, their interest was that all those on the land get legitimacy of their parcels by obtaining title deeds. (Edited by V. Graham)