Austin Bukenya taught us in the Literature Department at Kenyatta University years ago. He produced and acted on stage here with real giants of Kenyan Theatre, such as David Mulwa and the late Francis Imbuga. Bukenya as a man of letters is larger than life, I tell you. Many in Kenya know his name as a weekend arts columnist for the Saturday Nation. He pens his articles four times each month on topical issues at the intersection of literature, society and culture. Graduates remember his books co-authored by retired KU scholars of folklore, such as Prof Muigai wa Gachanja and the late Jane Nandwa. These books on oral literature and folk arts are readers at the secondary level of education in Kenya and East Africa. Moreover, Bukenya is known for his contributions to textbooks in the English subject across Kenya also. He has been a writer and reviewer of curriculum materials for Oxford University Press and many other publishers around. I find honour in revealing that I am related to him both as a former student of literature at Kenyatta University and through a relative from Uganda we share. This mutual kin, who gave me the name Kizito and introduced me to Catholicism, is a godfather to me and an uncle to the great professor. Many more know Bukenya as a poet. Those who have read poetry from East Africa in assorted anthologies as they careened through English classes are familiar with the poem, “I Met a Thief”. It is a haunting homage to unrequited love. Some would even be familiar with his pithy poem called “Whititude”, one of the poignant commentaries on human relations in the context of race and history written in the 20th Century. Many are the speeches, interviews and talks he has delivered despite his university retirement. I have listened to him lecture audiences with wit and humour in his signature bass that has boomed and beamed defences of the arts across the decades here and yonder. Here is a scholar worth of emulation. Here is a true beacon of African excellence. Here is a symbol of our East African heritage. Is it not in Tanzania that together with my anon godfather mentioned above, and ageing President Yoweri Museveni, that he pursued his university education, becoming the first person at the University of Dar es Salaam to earn a First Class Honours degree in the 1970s? A Ugandan, who is fluent both in English and French, Bukenya is a consummate polyglot who conducts his affairs of the mind with flair and fluency in these Europhone languages as well as a range of other vernaculars on top of Kiswahili. Yet, it is in Kenya, rather than Uganda the land of his birth, or Tanzania the land of his tertiary education, that his stellar career in literature has had the highest visibility. Bukenya taught for years in Machakos before he soared higher to perch at Kenyatta University as a doyen of theatre and literature. He spent the last three decades of the last millennium educating Kenyans of all walks of life. To me, this Ugandan is Kenyan! His contributions to generations of Kenyan teachers of English is one of the unwritten stories of excellence in this career of chalk and talk. His alumni litter the length and breadth of Kenya and percolate her important sectors, such as education, mass media and administration. Today, I confess that we who know him at a closer range are alive to another aspect of his Kenyan roots. His stay in Kenya those many years ago started as a sad story of exile and political dictatorship. His history as a Ugandan exile teaching for eons in Kenya is a lesson on the pitfalls of our postcolonial nations and their stories of independence. Bukenya is one of the Ugandan writers who crossed into Kenya at the height of the brutal rule of the late 1970s Ugandan dictator Idi Amin. Other art scholars who fled Uganda to Kenya in that season of anomie included John Ruganda, Okotp’Bitek, Robert Serumaga and even Barnabas Kasigwa. These brilliant exiles and many others made Kenya and its freer postcolonial society their academic home away from home. How can I not mention the ill-fated scribe Enerico Seruma, who was gunned down by Amin’s state agents at Tea Room in Nairobi in broad daylight in spite of living here in exile under a pseudonym as Byron Kawadwa? 1970s. Those were the sad years for Ugandan writers. That was a terrible decade for Ugandan literature. There, behold a moment in history that sacrificed artistic freedoms at the altar of political intolerance. So, when new news trickles in from Uganda of today on how two writers and a popular musician face challenges airing their views through art, one cannot help but fidget in his armchair as a literary critic. The powerful question that has been asked in Kampala and here in Kenya in the 1970s before, is one that is returning like a comet of apprehension. Who is afraid of the Ugandan writer? Who is afraid of Bobbi Wine? Who is afraid of Stella Nyanzi? Who is afraid of the recently arrested Ugandan satirical novelist Kakwenza Rukirabashaija?