Embu County ODM delegates Friday congregated at Gerish Hotel in Embu County for the 77th birthday celebrations of their party leader and presidential aspirant Raila Odinga. The event was attended by the Embu County ODM chairman Moses Wamuuru who was also the event host, Mary Wacheke party treasurer,  Jennifer Mukami Youth leader and the party Organizing secretary Loveys Njagi. Moses Wamuuru who is also Embu County Senator aspirant said that it was their special day as party delegates and it's a sign people of Embu have changed their perception towards Raila. He said for years it has been a challenge to hold Raila's birthday celebrations in the county since people have been receiving negative remarks by their competitors but in recent things have changed. "Today is a special day for us as we celebrate our party leader birthday. Residents are celebrating with Raila something we are proud of," said Wamuuru. "It has been a challenge to initiate anything about Raila in Embu in past but people have now noticed he is a good person who wants good things for Kenyans," he added. Wamuuru said that Raila opponents have been spreading negative remarks against him something that gave residents a negative perception towards their party leader. On her side, the Youth leader under the Raila Odinga movement Azimio la Umoja Jennifer Mukami said as a youth leader she's happy with her fellow youths who have shown their interest and trust in Raila agenda. "Embu County youths we are peaceful and we like Raila agenda," said Mukami. She also urged the youths to be cautious and distance themselves from politicians who wants to take advantage and mislead them. Mukami urged young people in Kenya to remain united and seek the right leaders. In her message to Raila, she wished him a happy birthday and wished her the best of luck in his endeavours. "Jakom Happy Birthday may you live many many more and we are looking forward to having you in the next government as you'll set a clear path for us youths," she said. Edited by D Tarus