Soya bean chunks are made from soy flour that has had oil removed. They're processed and packed dry and have a rough texture before being cooked. Even though they're 100 per cent plant-based,they harbour a chewy taste almost like meat. They are not only high in protein, omega-3, iron, calcium and so many other nutrients but are also high in energy and are totally cholesterol-free. Turmeric is a spice goddess. Totally amazing on meals and works on the skin as well. Turmeric rice tastes as heavenly as it smells. Ingredients For the rice Method Peel and wash your onion and garlic cloves. Proceed to slice your onion into large semi-circles and set aside then crush your garlic into a fine mash. Place your cooking pan over a source of heat, add the onions, salt and coconut oil then stir. Allow the onions to slightly brown then add the crushed garlic and stir once again. Drizzle some water over the onions in case they start to caramelize. Wash the cup of rice and add it to the cooking pan, stir gently add turmeric powder and stir once again ensuring everything mixes well. Add two and a half cups of water to the cooking pan and bring it to boil, once the water levels go down reduce the heat and cover the cooking pan. Once ready, turn off the heat and set it aside. Ingredients Sossi stew Method Note: Soak the soya chunks in cold water for 10 minutes before use. Wash and chop all your vegetables accordingly. In a sufuria, fry onions until golden brown, add tomatoes stir and allow them to cook. Add the carrots, white pepper, beef cubes, belle pepper and a little water stir then allow it to cook for 5 minutes. Add cubed potatoes and soy chunks, stir gently and add the crushed garlic and half a cup of water. Cover the sufuria and let the meal cook. Once the potatoes soften, add the chopped parsley and a cup of milk and bring the meal to boil. Once the soup starts to thicken, turn off the heat. Serve the meal and garnish with slices of lemon for an extra zing in the flavours. Enjoy.