If only human beings knew the hour of their return to their heavenly home, then the Bundi family would have probably bid a proper farewell to their loved ones. The parents would have probably pleaded with God to have their three daughters remain in this world so as to take care of their two younger brothers. But as Mombasa Catholic Archbishop Martin Kivuva put it, death comes like a thief and no one knows time or place it will come calling. Ronald Bundi, his wife Veronica Ogake and their three daughters Marion Moraa, Natalia Kemunto and Claire Kwamboka died on December 25, when they were involved in an accident in Engwata area, Mackinon along Mombasa-Nairobi highway. Only two young sons survived the accident and are fighting for their lives in a hospital in Mombasa. Tears and emotions ran high as the five caskets arrived at St Francis of Assisi Catholic Church in Nyali, Mombasa county. They were received by archbishop Kivuva who presided over a memorial service. The family was eulogised as religious people who were committed to their faith. Their lives revolved around church and its activities and were always at the forefront in taking up church responsibilities whenever needed. Ronald was a member of Catholic Men Association while his wife was a staunch member of Catholic Women Association. Moraa was a youth member of Don Bosco youth group while Natalia was a member of a girls' group called “Shirika la wana Maria” at their church. Kwamboka was undertaking catechism and if death had not taken her, she would have received her first communion in June, 2022. Kivuva said he personally knew the family and the news of their death came as a shock to him. “I still remember how the girls read a reading during the opening of this church," he said. He said the family was a perfect example of how to bring up a family in a Godly way. He urged the family and church members not to blame God for whatever happened but take comfort in knowing that they perished while knowing God. The church leadership through its parish pastoral council said the deaths had taken a toll on the church. The council said the couple had leadership roles in the church and were at the forefront in supporting various projects.    -Edited by SKanyara