Wajir governor aspirant Ugas Sheikh-Mohamed on Saturday said residents have a date with destiny come August, he urged them to make wise choices. Addressing traders from Soko Mjinga in Wajir town, Mohamed said for Wajir to prosper, the residents must make sure that they elect the right crop of leaders in the August poll. He blamed the underdevelopment of the county to a poor crop of leaders. Ugas Sheikh Mohamed and Adam Hassan were locked out three months ago when the sultanate declared Hassan Wehliye the sole flag bearer of the Fai clan. They have however, all defied the elders call and vowed to go all the way to the ballot. Mohamed, who in 2017 was urged to step down in favour of former governor Mohamed Abdi said this time he will ‘stop at nothing to make sure that he clinches the seat’. "Let me reassure the good people of the county that we are determined to go the whole hog, work tirelessly and make Wajir a better place for all of us. "We want the help of all the wajirians to  get there. We have a date with destiny. I win, we win,” Mohamed said. Mohamed described the declaration by the Fai sultanate as illegitimate. He urged the electorates to focus on the candidate’s manifesto, what they stand for and what they promise to deliver when elected and not the clan one comes from. “The issue of elders choice should neither be here nor there. I urge the great people of Wajir to look at me as an individual seeking votes from you. Thoroughly scrutinise me and then decide whether you will vote for me or not,” Mohamed said. He said he has good plans for the county including improving healthcare, education and livestock. He also intends to tackle the run away corruption which he says, has largely led to the country lagging behind in development since money meant for services was being misused by a few. He further urged the youth to take the lead role in matters of governance challenging them to use their numerical strength to not only elect good leaders but vote their own into office. “To the youth, you will no longer be told you’re the leaders of tomorrow. You’re the leaders of today. We’ve heard you and we’ll walk this journey together. Make the wise choice. "As the August polls approach, we will knock every door, seek the support of all. We have an agenda to unite all,” he said. Mohamed said he also intends to uplift the standards of the  markets, which he says remain the economic mainstay of thousands of households in Wajir county. The small-scale traders through their representatives raised a range of issues including the deplorable business environment, poor sanitation and lack of other basic amenities. Hussein Dayib speaking on behalf of the traders promised to support Mohamed. He said as traders they were impressed by his manifesto and what he plans to do for them. “As traders we have suffered enough and the environment under which we do our business is pathetic. "We have had leaders who promise heaven but deliver nothing after they are elected. We hope and pray that you keep your word once you assume office,” Dayib said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)