Some Homa Bay MPs have urged the state to fast-track bringing public ferry to Lake Victoria by allocating funds to address transportation problems. The legislators said they had petitioned the state through Parliament to allocate funds in the next financial year’s budget for purchasing the vessel. Ferry services would enhance transportation of both residents and goods as it improves Blue Economy in Lake Victoria. Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga said a public ferry would enable thousands of people living in Lake Victoria islands to do business. Speaking at Nyachebe beach in Suba North constituency during a meeting with the fisher folk, Wanga said financial allocation for the ferry should be incorporated in the budget whose implementation starts on July 1 this year. She said Blue Economy cannot be tapped satisfactorily without a public vessel which can enable residents to move from the mainland to islands and vice versa. “As MPs from this area, we had taken the matter to Parliament for consideration. I am just appealing to the government to allocate funds in the budget so that a ferry can be bought for the people using Lake Victoria,” Wanga said. Lake Victoria has many islands which are significant in obtaining fish. The islands also serve as landing sites for fishermen and help preparation of fish for immediate consumption and sale. Some of the islands are Remba, Ringiti, Kibuogi, Kiwa and Takawiri. Others  are Mfang'ano, Rusinga and Migingo. “Blue Economy is the current focal point in economic development. Lake Victoria is a resource which can transform lives of the people. But this can only happen if proper means of transport is available,” the legislator said. The MPs, through Wanga, said many development projects in Mfang'ano Island have been affected due to lack of ferry services. Last month, Kenya Maritime Authority suspended operations of two ferries which were operating between Mbita town and Mfangano Island, and Mbita town and Lwanda Kotieno trading centre in Siaya county. On Tuesday, Wanga asked KMA to relax its regulations and allow Mbita Ferry Services Ltd owning the ferries to operate. “It is ideal to have a government ferry but the KMA should allow the management of this private company to operate. People are suffering and many development activities are at standstill,” she added. (edited by Amol Awuor)