Countries are governed by the rule of law, which everyone must abide by or land in trouble. However, some countries have extreme laws that when one violates, he or she may face execution or decapitation Others nations have strange laws that prevent their citizens from exercising some of the basic human rights. North Korea, which is located East of Asia in the Northern half of Korea next to China, Russia and South Korea, is a perfect example of a country with extreme laws. North Korea's supreme leader Kim Jong-Un rules his country in a unique style that has earned him massive criticisms and even trade sanctions. In North Korea, some products and lifestyles are illegal To protect their heritage, vacations abroad, western lifestyle, some haircuts, Coca-cola products, Apple products, eating fast food, reading the bible are some of the things North Korean government has banned. While it may sound like a violation of human rights by many across the globe, citizens of that country apparently have no problem heeding such laws. Getting a condom is next to impossible because the country has banned all sorts of birth control measures. Sanitary pads and tampons are not available in the North Korean market. Women use the old-school reusable pads which they are expected to reuse by washing after use. In terms of dress code, men are required to wear long trousers and not shorts. The same case applies to women, who can wear skirts and trousers provided the length is above the knees. Blue jeans, piercings and creative haircuts are actually banned by law as it symbolises American imperialism. If you are a tourist, all your music, television, films and written material will be thoroughly checked before you enter the country. The country offers three television channels for people to choose from. All of them are government-controlled. The bible is banned and you will be publicly executed if you practise any form of religion. They claim "there is freedom of religion" but when one practices in public he or she faces public persecution. Making international calls is a crime. In 2007, a man who made several international calls was killed. Consuming marijuana is accepted and unlike in most countries, trade and consumption of the drug attract no punishment as per law. Fast foods like burgers, fries street kiosks with traditional Korean food are more popular there. Everyone’s favourite is kimchi, a tasty and very spicy cabbage. Your profession is chosen by the government, based on the country's needs. Those who do not comply are sent to concentration camps for forced labour. Citizens are not allowed to have the same name as the current president. So, everyone named Kim was made to change their names by law. If a member of your family commits suicide, the entire family is punished together with the three generations of his or her family.