Three social groups based in Nairobi, Kiambu and Kajiado counties respectively have emerged as the 2021 winners of the LG Electronics Ambassador Challenge. This challenge seeks to promote the growth and self-reliance of local communities. The three, Ghetto Evolve from Nairobi, The Eagles from Limuru and Mpookua Primary school will each receive Sh1 million which is the main prize that will go towards solving social issues in the communities in which they reside. Speaking during the announcement of the three, LG Electronics East Africa Managing director Sa Nyoung Kim said that this challenge is part of LG's overarching vision that sees various aspects of society working together to achieve a better life for all. "This being our second year running it successfully, we remain committed to executing social contribution activities that deliver sustainable growth to local communities as we empower everyone to live a better life that they deserve,” Kim said. As part of their solutions agenda, Mporokua primary school - a public mixed day primary school in Kajiado Central sub-county, Ilmarba location seeks to use the funds to develop one classroom and two-door toilets to reduce congestion from the other classes. Mporokua primary school headteacher, Johnson Munyere, said the school was started in 2010 by parents as a way to help their children from walking five kilometres away to the nearest school. "We have a population of 250 pupils and a feeder school called Sangilel with a total number of 78 pupils. We have four permanent classes and three semi-permanent ones shared by all the classes, plus a toilet with four doors shared by both boys, girls and teachers. "Getting classrooms will make the pupils more comfortable and help improve their performance” Munyere said. In Nairobi, the Ghetto Evolve Mathare social group plans to use the capital received to establish a resource centre for kids, young men and women in Mathare slums. Director of Ghetto Evolve, Thomas Macharia said, “Through this resource centre, we hope to create social impact, improve the quality of life in our community and reawaken the desire to learn and develop amongst the young adults while empowering the most basic employable skills." He added that this will not only help them bridge the competency divide but also help the youth explore and maximize their full potential. The third group, the Eagles from Limuru intend to purchase motorbikes which shall provide jobs to the young families in their club as part of their long-term plan to venture into the transport business and create a livelihood for their members. Team leader of Eagles Club, Christopher Mwendwa, said the Eagles club is entirely for young families in the community with small or no income. "Through the support received, we plan to buy motorcycles that will help us generate income to support our members, and establish an office that will act as a resource centre for empowerment programs for the community. The office will be run by a secretary that we shall employ. Our goal is to enable our members to live beyond what limits them," he said. The three groups are expected to execute their ideas in three months once they are awarded. To ensure due diligence, a follow up will be made by the Programme Manager and key partner of the challenge - Korea Food for The Hungry International -KFHI. To bring the solutions to life, KFHI will plan, support, and implement customized project progress and monitoring according to the location of the project screening, project community selection, and the characteristics of the selected teams (including organization, operation, and capabilities) through the competition.