Vitamin C is an antioxidant that helps protect your cells against the effects of free radicals. Free radicals are uncharged molecules that are unstable, highly reactive and are capable of independent existence. They're produced when your body breaks down food or is exposed to tobacco smoke, radiation and other sources. They can cause harm if they're at high levels in the body. Some of the benefits of vitamin C include: For adults, the recommended daily amount for vitamin C is 65 to 90 milligrams a day. Although mega doses of vitamin C supplements might induce diarrhoea and nausea. Most people assume that oranges are the highest form of vitamin C. The fruits practically own the title as everything vitamin C related is linked to them. But that's a misconception. Below are some foods that are more loaded with the vitamin than juicy fruits: 1) Peppers From yellow bell peppers to chilli peppers and capsicums as well, peppers, in general, are considered great forms of vitamin C. Yellow bell peppers are considered as one of the greatest sources of Vitamin with 100 grams of them providing 183.5 mg, which translates to a 306% daily value of Vitamin C. A half-cup of chopped chilli peppers brings 107.8 mg of vitamin C. Sweet green peppers contain 220% daily value while sweet red peppers are loaded with 349%. 2) Cauliflower Consuming a head of cauliflower offers you a 404.9 mg dose of vitamin C. A cup of cooked cauliflower offers around 73 to 77% of the daily value. It's a good sauce of folate as well. 3) Kiwi Two kiwis provide 137.2 mg of vitamin C. This fruit is also rich in copper and potassium. 4) Tomatoes Tomatoes are another excellent source of Vitamin C. A medium-sized tomato provides about 28% of the daily value.  Tomato soup can help to improve/boost your immune system and save you from viruses and the common cold. 5) Strawberries A cup of this colourful fruit gives 84.7 mg of vitamin C, along with a healthy dose of folate and other powerful compounds found to promote cardiovascular health. 6) Broccoli This incredibly tasty and nutritious vegetable provides not only provides loads of filling fibre but 132 mg of vitamin C as well for just 30 calories per serving. 7) Kale On top of it packing 7 times the recommended dose of vitamin K and 2 times the recommended daily intake of vitamin A, a cup serving of kale delivers 80.4 mg of vitamin C. 8) Papaya Loaded with a lot of health benefits, a cup serving offers around 88.3 mg of vitamin C. 9) Pineapple This tropical fruit completes 80% of the daily value of vitamin C. 100 grams of it packs 47.8 mg of the vitamin. 10) Mango Mango offers around 122.3 mg of vitamin C. It is also a good source of vitamin A, which like vitamin C plays a significant role in immunity and keeps your eyes healthy. Vitamin C is a vital nutrient required by the body for maintenance and development. Daily consumption is highly encouraged.