There are several types of designs used when making tailored suits for both men and women. This ranges from pinstripe suits, checked suits to plain suits. The most common suit design for men is the plain suit. This design is loved mostly by men and not women. Women prefer shouting colours, like pink, white and purple. Men like dull colours, such as black, navy blue, and grey-coloured suits. The suit can be paired with white plain T-shirts apart from the normal long-sleeved shirts. For men who love to explore fashion, a bare chest in a suit will also work fine. The plain suits are suitable for formal functions. They can also be worn for official duty. The shoes don’t have to be the normal official shoes. Men can try out mules or even sneakers, and this will still look elegant. If the suit is worn with a pair of T-shirts, then one can add a neckpiece. You can also add fedora hats to look a bit casual. A pinstripe suit is decorated with thin, parallel vertical stripes. Historically, the suits are associated with men's business attire. The pinstripe suit is worn in modern times by both men and women. Pinstripes originated in England around the end of the 19th century. However, the purpose for the development of the pinstripe is debated. One theory is that they were made for bankers. The size/distance of the stripe signified employees from different banking institutions. Pinstripe suits mostly come with a lapel and can also be broken into pieces. By breaking, this means you can wear a pinstripe trouser, T-shirt and sneakers. Not many women can stand these types of suits, their preference is plain. Checked suits have remained classy despite the changing times. One needs to dress the suit down with a pair of slip-ons and a plain white T-shirt. This rule applies to all gentlemen; at least they need to get roughly the right size on. If you're wearing a blue suit, go for a navy blue tie over a green one. If you're wearing a grey suit, a black tie works best. Your colours should complement, not clash. Even if you choose the wrong tone, at least get the colour right. The material used for checked suits is heavy cotton, unlike other designs that have lighter material.