It is a mango season in Kenya, and due to its delectable juicy taste, it's definitely one of the best things to enjoy with this Njanuary heat. From red, yellow and green, mangoes originated in India over 4,000 years ago and are considered sacred fruit. Mangoes are a good source of fibre and antioxidants, including vitamin C, which means they support a healthy immune system and may fight chronic and inflammatory diseases. They also contain nutrients that support eye and skin health and are a good part of an overall healthy diet. High in fibre, mangoes have been found to improve and prevent constipation and other gut-related health issues by increasing healthy fatty acids and gastric secretions that help indigestion. The enzymes in mangoes help in breaking down protein content in the body. Fibre has been proven to prevent colon cancer as it fuels the colon cells to keep them healthy. The only drawback of fibre is gas and bloating, which can be prevented by drinking lots of water. Researchers have also found that its carotene content may help reduce the risk of colon cancer and promote good eye health. Since mangos contain vitamin B6, which is responsible for producing serotonin, dieticians found that including it in your diet helps promote better sleep and mood. Findings presented at the American Society for Nutrition 2018 found that eating at least 2 cups of mango juice a day improved the cardiovascular health of a person. Mangoes are rich in antioxidants, fibre and beta-carotene, which have been deemed effective at lowering blood pressure. They also contain Vitamin C and A which help boost your body’s natural collagen production and studies have shown that mangoes reduce wrinkles in ageing women. “This shows that while some mango may be good for skin health, too much of it may not be,” said first author Vivien Fam, a doctoral student in the Department of Nutrition at the University of California, Davis of the Research. Eating one or two mangoes in a day is advised; remember, everything needs balance and moderation. For maximum benefits, pair this magic fruit with other fruits as well.