Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has reached out to his political rivals in Ukambani with the intent of solidifying his support base in the region ahead of the August 9, 2022, general elections. Kalonzo said he was already in talks with governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and his Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu in a bid to politically mend ways for a common goal of unifying the region. This, the former Vice President believes, will positively impact his presidential bid on his efforts to take a firm grip of the Ukambani region. “I called Governor Kibwana, we are ready to talk and settle these issues. Musila was to come, I had also invited Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, while former Kitui Governor Julius Malombe is here,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader spoke during the Ukambani Leaders Forum at his home in Yatta, Machakos County on Saturday. Kalonzo said he will mediate among several politicians battling for various political seats in the Ukambani region to avoid fallouts. “Machakos! Machakos! Mheshimiwa Mutemba ninakuona. Mheshimiwa Mutemba is a high-ranking member of this party and the second timer in Parliament,” Kalonzo said. Mutemba is Mavoko MP Patrick Makau’s nick name. “Mheshimiwa madam speaker ninakuona. Mheshimiwa Wavinya, you are here. We will not repeat any mistake,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader was referring to Machakos County Speaker Florence Mwangangi and Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti respectively. Makau, Mwangangi, and Ndeti have all declared their bid for the Machakos gubernatorial seat on the Wiper party ticket ahead of the August 9 polls and have already hit the road running. “But remember, I’m ready to seat with them. Kama niko na makosa, ninaomba msamaha na kama sina makosa, waombewe na Bishop Titus Masika,” Kalonzo said. “This is why we are the most democratic people, the Kambas. I allow people to abuse me and get away with it,” Kalonzo added. He invited other leaders from the region, members of other political parties other than Wiper to ditch them for Wiper. “Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo is invited to Wiper, we want to actually talk with one voice.” The Wiper leader also called for a political cease-fire among Wiper gubernatorial aspirants in Makueni County. Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) Board Chairperson Philip Kaloki and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior are battling for the seat on a Wiper ticket. “Kaloki is also in another caliber of professionals. Where you have done well, we also congratulate you. But, as I said in the Machakos case, I’m going to sit with Junior and Kaloki. You must also stay together at that level of governors. I will also try my best, we will engage church leaders so that we don’t make mistakes,” Kalonzo added. “I’m very proud of you guys, we invite those others to Wiper. So, I want to thank you very much. You are going to shield the party leader, wiper will do an excellent job during party nominations,” he said. Kalonzo said Wiper’s elections board will ensure free and fair nominations.