A medics union has described as reckless the directive by Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga that patients without voter cards will not be treated in Siaya hospitals. Rasanga on Sunday said the directive was part of extraordinary measures being deployed to catalyse voter registration. “No services will be offered to people without IDs and voter's card. This means if you don’t have a voter's card and you visit the hospital within the county you will be turned away," he said. Rasanga said the move will help the county meet its target of 107,000 new voters. But in a statement Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacist and Dentist Union (KMPDU) Nyanza branch secretary Aggrey Nyabuti criticised the governor, saying he was perturbed. “We find this statement careless and infringes on the rights of citizens to access health services as stipulated in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights,” he said. Nyabuti said while it is important for citizens to be encouraged to participate in their civic duties, such as registering as voters, they should not be coerced or intimidated to the extent of being denied access to health services. Article 43(1)(a) of the Constitution provides that every person has the right to the highest attainable standards of health. Article 43 (2) also provides that a person shall not be denied emergency medical treatment. Nyabuti said KMPDU rejects the attempt to infringe on the basic rights of the people of Siaya. “We urge our members to uphold their oath and continue to serve without discrimination as they have always done," he said. Nyabuti said the Siaya government should focus on improving primary healthcare while offering voter education and sensitisation to ensure all registered voters are also NHIF beneficiaries. Rasanga's remarks came three days after boda boda operators in Bondo town declared the town a no-go zone for non-registered voters. Counties across the region have been taking various measures, including giving their employees time off from work to go and mobilise people from their areas to register as voters. In Kisumu, both the county government and county assembly gave their employees two weeks to mobilise their families and friends to register as voters. Edited by A.N