The USAID 4TheChild program has signed a five years partnership with Kenya Post Office Savings Bank (Postbank) to the tune of Sh3.8 billion. Chief of Party of the USAID-funded AMPATHPlus Prof Sylvester Kimaiyo said the project is running from March 2021. He said the program aims to reach over 152,000 orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) in households affected by HIV and AIDS in the targeted counties. He added that the project will target the counties of Kisumu, Siaya, Bungoma, Kakamega and Busia. Speaking in Kisumu during the signing of the partnership, Kimaiyo noted that the program will be run by Moi University while working with other implementing agencies with an aim to improve the well-being of the children. The program, he noted, will ensure that the children under their care can gain access to quality county-led social services including health, nutrition, education, legal protection and psychological support. Post Bank Managing Director Raphael Lekolool stated that they are ready to offer the financial support needed to run the program. Lekolool said the bank staff will offer the necessary financial education to the families that will be directly linked to the program. "On our part at as Post Bank we will be able to offer them financial services and training to ensure that the savings program we are committed to give them the services". Make Me Smile Kenya, a Non in Kisumu County is part of the implementing agency in the Sh. 3.8 billion program by USAID 4TheChild targeting orphans and vulnerable children in five counties in Western Kenya. The Make Me Smile Director Simeon Peter says they will be working with the communities in the county targeting 34,000 children. Peter said they will also support girls and young women under the Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored and Safe (DREAMS) program. He noted that they will roll out the program with an aim of giving skills on savings to the women under the five year project. Peter during the Signing noted that social services for the children under the program will be given first priority. He further noted that girls under the DREAMS project will go through training on how to deter them from early pregnancies. Peter added that most adolescents’ girls are exposed to getting HIV and AIDS and the training will give them life skills to prevent them from getting diseases.