Posta Rangers head coach Stanley Okumbi says their emphatic 3-0 win over record champions Gor Mahia clearly testifies to their rising curve in the country's top tier. The mailmen shook off their underdogs' tag to tear their fancied opponents into smithereens in a Kenya  Premier League encounter at Thika Stadium on Wednesday. Timothy Otieno opened the floodgates in the seventh minute before Chrispinus Onyango doubled the advantage with a superb 32nd-minute effort. Otieno then came back to haunt Gor with a 37th-minute screamer to bag a brace and condemn the 19-time champions to their third defeat of the season. Okumbi said he was delighted by the rate at which the players were adjusting to his coaching philosophy. “I'm happy we are finally getting the script right. We have been keen on making amends for our shortcomings since the beginning of the season and it's quite encouraging to observe just how far the team has come," said Okumbi. The seasoned gaffer, who has moulded the mailmen into a tiki-taka side reckons the huge win over the traditional Kenyan giants has injected the much-needed impetus into his team. He, however, said charging for their maiden top-flight title is the least of their concerns for now. “Today's win serves as a major incentive to our campaign. We are most definitely, like any other team, competing for silverware but I still think it's too early to start talking about our chances at the title,” said Okumbi. Gor Mahia head coach Mark Harrison decried the pathetic state of the pitch, insisting it played a big role in their big fall. “Playing on such a bumpy surface stifles the tempo and flow of the game. We've taught our players to keep the ball rolling on the pitch and that kind of play was hindered by the pathetic state of Thika Stadium,” said Harrison. Harrison further lamented the absence of their luminaries from the lineup, saying the club should consider plunging resources into the market to plug the big holes left especially in the midfield following the departure of regulars Benson Omalla and Ernest Wendo. “Our squad needs to be beefed up quite a lot if we are really serious about battling for the title this season,” said Harrison. He appealed to the large K'Ogalo fanbase to rally behind the team, saying the presence of spectators at the stands during matches would turn around their fortunes. “When I joined the club, I was told to expect a minimum of between 20 to 30,000 fans in any given match. I'm disappointed we only see a maximum of 300 fans in our matches," said Harrison. “They need to come and support the team.” The outcome leaves Gor fifth with 27 points while Posta have ascended to sixth with 25.