National Olympic Committee-Kenya have confirmed plans to present a team for the fourth edition of the Africa Youth Games this year in Cairo, Egypt. Secretary-general, Francis Mutuku, said they will immediately commence preparations for the event in collaboration with other relevant stakeholders. "We will of course immediately embark on planning for the games. We have to work in collaboration with the Ministry of Sports as well as other stakeholders. Considering there are other sporting activities lined up worldwide, we will have to factor in the same during the preparations," Mutuku said. Furthermore, Nock will have to wait for Egypt to confirm the number of disciplines to be contested before deciding on which ones to select competitors. "Usually, the host country is given the discretion to choose the number of disciplines. Once Egypt have confirmed, then we will decide on the disciplines we will compete in," Mutuku said. The decision on the host country for the quadrennial games was communicated Monday by the Association of National Olympic Committees of Africa after a video conference of the members on Thursday last week. ANOCA President, Mustapha Berraf, confirmed the North African nation's willingness to host the 12-year games and support from the Egyptian government. "The Secretary-General of Egypt’s NOC, Sharif Elerian, confirmed his respective government's final agreement to host these Games, and reiterated the full support of Egypt in favour of the African and international sports and Olympic movement," Berraf said. During the last edition of the games held four years ago in Algiers, Algeria, Kenya finished 10th on the medal rankings after garnering 15 medals (six gold, four silver, and five bronze). Some of the disciplines that were contested include archery, judo, athletics, fencing, equestrian, field hockey, handball, canoeing, and boxing, among others. Apart from the Youth Games, ANOCA has also awarded Tunisia the hosting rights for the 2023 Africa Beach Games, which will be held in the seaside town of Hammamet. The continental youth games attract approximately 4500 competitors whereas beach games bring together an estimated 1200 participants.