Nairobi Women's Hospital has been sued for professional negligence. Newton Gogo from Ahero in Kisumu county has filed a petition against the hospital for allegedly leaving artery forceps in his body. This follows a surgery he underwent at the facility in 2019. The hospital denies all allegations of negligence and rejects claims for damages and compensation of Sh238,350 medical fees. It said the documents and X-rays Gogo submitted as evidence are not genuine and he was afforded the best quality care. Through his lawyer Geoffrey Yogo, Gogo seeks to be compensated for professional negligence which he claims was committed by the facility when its staff attended to him. In the suit before the chief magistrate's court at Milimani law courts in Nairobi, he wants redress and has criticised the manner in which his surgery was performed. Gogo said he was admitted at the hospital from November 12, 2019, to November 16 following an accident at Alliance High School where he was a student. He said he has been experiencing persistent pain after he underwent the surgery. “I only learnt that I had the object in my body last year after an X-ray done at Kisumu county hospital,” Gogo said. He also said he had to undergo another surgery to remove the foreign object in September last year. Gogo accused the facility of leaving artery forceps in his chest cavity during the surgery. The hospital, he claimed, failed to undertake the right procedures to ensure he was safe during the operation. The petitioner further claimed the hospital failed to employ competent and qualified medical personnel and claims that he was subjected to unnecessary pain. “Due to the aforesaid professional negligence of the defendant’s staff, the petitioner has suffered extreme pain and loss of opportunities in life as a result of deferred education,” his suit reads. In the suit, four witnesses have been lined up to testify against the facility. Gogo noted that the act of professional negligence has injured him for life. The plaintiff has also blamed the facility for failing to follow proper surgical procedures and ensuring no foreign object was left in his body. According to his petition, Gogo seeks orders on damages for pain and negligent surgery, and unnecessary corrective surgery. He claims to have used Sh238,350 in medical payments and wants the court to compel the hospital to compensate him. The hospital in its statement wants the court to dismiss the suit. The health facility has denied the allegations by Gogo. The hospital said the documents and X-ray films that Gogo filed in court are not genuine. “The defendant states that it afforded the plaintiff with the best medical care and facilities and denies any acts of negligence leveled against it,” reads their statement. The court is yet to schedule a mention date for the suit. (Edited by V. Graham)