One Kenya Alliance principals Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka have come out to fight off claims of coalition talks with rivals. Mudavadi (ANC) and Kalonzo (Wiper) on Wednesday swore that none of them had met either Deputy President William Ruto or ODM leader Raila Odinga for a coalition pact. Co-principals Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Gideon Moi (Kanu) also denied reports of a split within the formation over allegations that some principals were in talks with other contenders. The principals said the alliance was intact and the process of identifying a flag bearer was at an advanced stage. They said the alliance had scheduled a retreat next month to strike a deal on the election lineup. “We wish to re-assure the public that Oka is united, strong and focused on its political mission,” they said in a statement read by former Lugari MP and UDP party leader Cyrus Jirongo on Wednesday. Oka principals will retreat from February 18 to consider recommendations from the technical team, which is currently working on a comprehensive report on the most suitable flag bearer. “Whoever the flag bearer is, he or she will carry the aspirations of millions of Kenyans that have entrusted their destiny to the One Kenya Alliance,” Jirongo added. Deputy President William Ruto's presence at a football tournament organised by Musalia's close ally Cleophas Malala triggered speculation of a possible ANC-UDA deal. A section of Mudavadi allies led by Lugari MP Ayub Savula and Christopher Aseka (Khwisero) have on the other hand asked their party boss to consider joining Raila's Azimio La Umoja Movement. At a press briefing in Nairobi, Jirongo maintained that Oka is intact and remains focused on offering the country a leadership that is “just, inclusive, responsive to the citizens’ needs and bound by the rule of law.” Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has been quoted claiming that Oka will dissolve before the end of January. Atwoli said the 2022 presidential race is a two-horse race between Ruto and Raila. "We've agreed 2022 is a race between William Ruto and Raila Odinga. Let no one lie to Mudavadi. He won't make it," Atwoli said. Mudavadi and Kalonzo, however, claim not to be in any coalition talks with Raila or Ruto. “The last time I spoke with Raila at length was last year when he attended Wiper's NDC,” Kalonzo said. Mudavadi also dismissed reports that he has had night meetings with the Deputy President. “I have been in the media lately more for what I have not said than what I have said. If I have not met any person, I cannot shy away from saying it. I will not hide it,” he added. Wetang'ula said he has not received any invitation, formal or informal, to any discussions with rivals. Jirongo said the alliance is growing and attracting key political stakeholders “including but not limited to the Mt Kenya Unity Forum.” Mudavadi further dismissed reports that he gave Ruto his blessings to hold his meetings in western. “I must be an extremely powerful person to give such permissions. Kenyans are free to go to any part of the country,” he stated. Oka principals further dismissed claims that they are in the 2022 race to force a run off. “You do not go to an election to create a run off. It would be the most primitive reason to go to an election. Our target is to win the election and serve the people,” Mudavadi said. Wetang'ula faulted the media for allegedly creating an impression that the 2022 polls will be a two-horse race. “We are in the race to win. We shall not be cajoled to sprint when we are running a marathon,” he added. Kalonzo said they will be calling out media outlets that will manipulate information to suit other candidates. “Attempts have been made to run out Oka. We will not be captive to a two-horse mentality,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)