Two cabinet secretaries have joined hands in enhancing service delivery of crucial projects meant to boost and support farmers from across the country. Agriculture CS Peter Munya and his Water counterpart Sicily Kariuki said the government was working round the clock to ensure meaningful development projects are realised. They were speaking at OlJoro- Orok constituency where they commissioned several water projects and gave out farming tool kits to farmers to boost their activities. The duo also launched the Kagongo Wendani Irrigation project in Weru ward that is expected to serve more 800 households and is funded by the Ministry of Agriculture through the Small Scale Irrigation and Value Addition Project. Munya also launched the One Million Kitchen Gardens Plan that targets households and schools across the county. The initiative is part of the economic recovery strategy to mitigate the effects of Covid-19 and boost income. "The tool kits will help farmers' groups to start kitchen garden activities in an effort to boost food security as most parts of the country continue to experience drought as a result of prolonged dry spell," Munya said. "The government is also committed to re-introducing 4-K clubs in schools where learners will also be trained on modern farming technologies to caution on food safety." The initiative will see pupils from primary schools taught on how to grow crops through 4K Clubs, a clarion call to help the country be food secure. Popular farming activities in 4-K clubs included keeping rabbits, chickens, goats and growing horticultural crops, which generated income to schools. On her part, Kariuki said the government had already invested in water projects worth more Sh3.6 billion since 2020 in Nyandarua county alone, a commitment she said will help support residents get access to clean water. "The government has done a feasibility study on the Pesi mega water project that is expected to be launched in Ndaragwa constituency," Kariuki said. "What remains is designing and funding of the project which is meant to serve residents from Nyandarua, Laikipia and Nyeri counties." Meanwhile, Munya said the government has established a task force to look into ways of improving potato farming in the country. He said the task force would be unveiled soon and amongst its terms of reference would be to find ways of ensuring that potato farming is profitable. (edited by Amol Awuor)