Controversy surrounds the transfer of Violet Wanyonyi from the Kenya Women's Premier League side, Trans-Nzoia Falcons to Vihiga Queens. The explosive winger who was loaned to Vihiga last season managed four goals in the inaugural Cecafa Club Champions League qualifiers. She also posted crucial goals in the second half of the season to underline her immediate impact for the side under the tutelage of Boniface Nyamunyamu. Wanyonyi also played in Caf women's Champions League in Egypt in November, contrary to the expectations of her parent club. Vihiga want to make the transfer permanent after impressing but face hurdles as Trans-Nzoia claim some clauses in the initial agreement were breached, leading to the standoff. Wanyonyi, who is training with Vihiga, is yet to make an appearance this season. Her absence hasn't been felt with Vihiga beating both Nakuru Queens and Ulinzi Starlets to sit third in the 12-team standings. On the other hand, Trans-Nzoia are second by virtue of Alphabetical order after winning the same number of matches. "The agreement was for them to only use the player for the qualifiers. However, Vihiga extended that to the tournament proper," Trans-Nzoia coach Justine Okiring remarked. He added: "Vihiga are disrespectful by the way they have handled the matter so far. We are open to sitting down with them and they are the ones to come here (Trans-Nzoia ) and talk to us and not us going there as they think. Wanyonyi can only be cleared to play once everything is sorted out otherwise Vihiga should forget using her this season." "We are not desperate to keep her in as much as she's a good player. However, there's a procedure to be followed. In any case, we have had a lot of players coming through the ranks and are eager to make a mark in the top tier." Wanyonyi is credited for scoring one of the two goals that Vihiga managed in Egypt as they exited the competition at the group stage. Wanyonyi scored against Morocco's ASFAR in Queens' 2-0 win, lost 1-0 to Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa before the humiliating 4-0 defeat to Nigeria's Rivers Angels.