This year's theme for Earth Day 2022 will be, “Invest In Our Planet.” Observed on April 22, Earth Day 2022 is focused on accelerating solutions to combat climate change and to activate everyone – governments, citizens, and businesses – to do their part in environmental conservation. The theme is focused on engaging the more than 1 billion people, governments, institutions, and businesses to recognize the collective responsibility and to help accelerate the transition to an equitable, prosperous green economy for all. The campaign seeks to push aside the barriers erected by the ancient, dirty fossil fuel economy and seeks to redirect attention to creating a 21st-century economy that brings back the health of the planet, protects species, and provides opportunities for all. EARTHDAY.ORG’s campaign is focused on reframing the conversation, accelerating action, and bringing people to work together. After COP26 in Glasgow, it is even more apparent that governments will not solve this crisis themselves. Nor are they taking sufficient action to create an equitable economy that will allow all people in all countries to share in the expanding green economy. Despite global inaction and even obstruction, historic green economic and scientific change is accelerating. Like the industrial, space, and information revolutions, all sectors of society can and must play major roles to get it right. "Governments can open new doors by incentivising their citizens, businesses, and institutions to create and innovate. They can create a fair global economic system to implement these innovations and changes without giving up their role to advance and protect the public’s interests in this transition," the organisation said. Jean-Betrand Mhandu, Earth Day Regional Director- Zimbabwe said there is a need to invest in our planet, which will in turn transform our society. “Let us prioritize what's most important, which is the wellbeing of the planet and constantly work to advance solutions that help combat humanity’s greatest threat,” she said. In her final remarks, Kathleen Rogers, the President of the organisation, said countries need to combat climate change by building a green economy. “Let us all enter into one partnership for the planet in 2022. People, governments, and even most businesses fear change, but the status quo - the way we live today - is changing before our eyes," she said. "In building our future, individuals, businesses, governments each have a unique role - we need to act individually and together.”