It is incredibly important to ensure your food stays fresh for a longer period of time so as to minimise on wastage. This is not just because of our dwindling economy, there's also the fear of shortage due to the pandemic we are currently living in and value for your money. Having a great refrigerator is a good place to start, but having food storage knowledge and little hacks here and there will help make sure your produce last longer. And your fridge will live up to its potential while helping you cut down on food wastage and constant trips to the grocery store. 1. LEARN CRISPY DRAWERS CONTROLS With most refrigerators you'll find crisper drawers toward the bottom of the unit. Crisper drawers possess a slider or flap that controls humidity and temperature within the drawer to help keep produce fresh for longer and cut back on wastage. The picture below has an illustrator on which drawer to store fruits and which is better for vegetables. Note: 2. STORE PRODUCT WHEN DRY Most produce fresh from the store often gets misted to help keep the fruits and veggies ready to eat. However, while some humidity will keep produce fresh, too much moisture promotes mould and wilting. Thoroughly dry any produce with a cloth or paper towel before putting it away. However there are a few vegetables that are exempted from this wise food storage rule: 3. BAG YOUR PRODUCE Reusable bags help prevent the moisture in your vegetables from  escaping, gifting you a few extra days of shelf life. For hardy greens: remove the stems, then put them into a reusable container. Mushrooms are best kept dry and in brown paper bags, where the moisture is wicked away. You can also bag your produce using cling film. 4. Refrigerate ripe fruits Some fruits like avocados and bananas are best kept out at room temperature so that they can fully ripen. Notably once ripe, moving these fruits into the fridge  pauses the ripening process (banana peels will get brown, but the fruit itself will stay firm). This is a short-term solution, but it gives you an extra two or three days to figure out your meal plans. 5. Freeze things It's ideal to freeze fruits and vegetables before they start to turn. Peel your produce, cut into desired pieces, and place them in a container or zip lock bag, and place in the freezer until solid. This lets you store your produce for up to three months this is ideal for  emergency foods that are seasonal. 6. Store produce together Consider storing your produce with a friend. These unlikely duos make great produce storage buddies: 7. Citrus and roots belong in the fridge Most people arrange their citrus in a bowl as centrepieces they might look beautiful, they're not going to last as long as they could. Citrus (lemons, oranges, grapefruit) will stay firm, juicy, and not shrivel up for ages in the fridge. The same goes for roots like ginger and fresh turmeric. 8) First in, first out (FIFO) Be sure to eat the food you've had longer first. The produce fresh from the market will last longer than the ones you've had for a week. Another thing to keep in mind is which produce has the shortest life. Prioritize soft greens like lettuce and  peppers that are notorious for shorter shelf life. Save your firm vegetables like potatoes, cabbage, carrots, and even hardy greens like kale for later in the week. 9. Don't overstock your drawers Have your produce practice social distancing too, and try your best not to cram your crisper drawers. That space allows for better air circulation around the produce and moisture evaporation. Better airflow and efficiency are the best things to keep mould at bay. 10. Only buy what you plan on using The most crucial storage tip is only buy what you’re planning on using. Plan your meals ahead of time, in order to help with this. Or note your weekly grocery list and quantity then stick to that line when shopping.  With this, you won't have to worry about wastage or over filling your fridge. With these simple food storage tips, you're guaranteed to maximize your produce shelf life and keep your fridge stocked with fresh foods.