Posta Rangers head coach Stanley Okumbi has lashed out at a clique of Kenyan referees for bringing the Kenyan Premier League into disrepute through dubious officiating. Speaking on Thursday, Okumbi singled out their encounter between Kenya Police, saying the referee did them a lot of injustice by blatantly denying them three clear penalties even after awarding their opponents a controversial spot-kick. “It's so unfortunate that there are some referees who have shown they are clearly bent on killing football in the country through biased officiating. “What we should ask now is if the teams being favoured actually want to clinch the title because that's clearly not the best way to go about it,” said Okumbi. The seasoned gaffer, who once guided the men's national team, Harambee Stars, said Kenya risks performing dismally on the international stage with such pathetic officiating. “It's quite obvious that if this situation persists, we won't have the best team winning the league and we won't have the best players turning out for the national team. “What these unscrupulous match officials should know is that they won't be there to preside over matches involving the national teams and clubs flying the country's flag at the continental shows. "Fifa and Caf will send qualified referees to officiate in the matches and our teams might find the going quite tough if they are used to the kind of favoritism we are currently witnessing,” said Okumbi. Okumbi said the fate that befell them against Kenya Police at Thika Stadium on Thursday bore some semblance with what they went through at Bukungu Stadium against Kakamega Homeboyz whom he claims were also awarded a contentious penalty. Okumbi's complaints came exactly a week after Gor Maha assistant coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo added his voice to the blooming concern about poor officiating in the top-flight competition. Speaking days after the record Kenyan champions lost their league encounter against Kakamega Homeboyz through a contentious penalty, Omollo said there was a trend whereby Homeboyz were being awarded dubious penalties in their home matches at Bukhungu Stadium. “It happened against Mathare United, Posta Rangers, Bandari and it has now occurred against Gor Mahia. Doesn't it strike you as odd that all those penalties were awarded during their home matches at Bukhungu?” asked an exasperated Omollo. Meanwhile, Okumbi has extolled his charges for exhibiting marked improvement as a unit despite blowing hot and cold this season. The mailmen are currently 10th on the log with 15 points with a game hand after registering four wins, three draws, and three losses in all their matches thus far. 