Lack of new signings won't affect Kenya Prisons performance in the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) League despite the big spending by their rivals, according to coach Josp Baraza. Prisons have been inactive in the transfer market with Baraza keeping faith with the last season's team that bagged the national title. Fiercest rivals Kenya Commercial Bank and Kenya Pipeline have bolstered their squads with quality signings, potentially blowing the title race wide open. Faith Imodia and Josephine Wafula decamped from DCI for the bankers. Pipeline re-signed experienced Noel Murambi and Violet Makuto from KCB to provide leadership to the young players. They also raided DCI for the services of Veronica Adhiambo (left attacker) and middle blocker Caroline Sirengo to underline their title ambitions. Barasa, however, said he is happy the two teams will enhance the level of competition but that will not hinder Prisons in any way. "It's good that our competitors have improved their squads which is good for competition. However, we are keen on defending our title without necessarily looking at what our opponents are doing," Baraza hinted. He added; "I believe in my squad if our achievements in the last couple of years are anything to go by. "We have quality and I have never doubted the ability of my players. The young players that came in at the tail end of last season are like new signings for us. "They are fearless in training and it's good to see them come out of their comfort zone and develop into formidable players." Mcline Akoko, Naomi Nekesa, and Rebecca Mwendwa have shown improvement since joining the Wardresses. Prisons face DCI this weekend in the second leg of the KVF league in Mombasa with Baraza worried about the threat posed by the sleuths. DCI, coached by Daniel Bor, gave Prisons a run for their money before losing 3-2 in a five-set thriller in the playoffs. "They (DCI) are a good side no doubt. We have met several times and we are ready for them. Training has been good and the players are eager to return to competition."