Intimate partner violence is one of the most pervasive forms of violence, according to World Health Organization (WHO). It is such a difficult subject matter since most victims end up going back to abusive partners and get stuck in the cycle of violence. Relationship Coach Dayan Masinde said in a previous interview with the Star that victims stay in abusive relationships and stay silent because they feel ashamed. “They feel that if people know what they're going through, they’ll think they don't make the best decisions. Men, especially, feel people may view them as weak if a woman is abusing them. Women have hope that their partner can change, and that’s why they may stay,” he said. Not many people know what to do when they are stuck in an abusive relationship. How to report the cases Did you know that there is a toll-free hotline you can call to report an incident of  Gender-Based Violence (GBV)? During the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Public Service and Gender responded to the increase in cases of Gender-Based Violence by launching the 1195 hotline. Betty Kanyeri from the State Department of Gender says that the hotline is manned 24/7 by a team from Healthcare Assistance Kenya (HAK). “Anytime you call 1195, they will answer and guide you to get help. They are always on call any time of the day,” she said. How does it work? Kanyeri says that HAK operators help victims of abuse to seek the nearest health facility and police station to get urgent treatment and file a police report against the abuser. “The victim can also get referred to a GBV rescue centre where they can be given counselling to get through the trauma o the abuse,” she said. If the victim needs legal aid, Kanyeri said, the HAK will also recommend lawyers to them. In the event that your safety will be at risk if you make a phone call, you can send a USSD code by dialling and calling * 483*306#. “The code will send a message to HAK and they will locate you wherever you are. They will send assistance your way,” she said. Sometimes we may be witnesses to GBV in our homes or communities. The public is encouraged to speak out when they see violence happening around them. Kanyeri said that you can report a case anonymously if you wish by calling the hotline or dialling the USSD code. “The response team will locate the victim and provide assistance the best way they can,” she said. Komesha dhuluma app There is a mobile application available on the Google Playstore that can also help victims of GBV report cases. Kanyeri says that the app can find the nearest health centres, police stations, children departments, and even justice centres for victims. “The Komesha Dhuluma app can help you access the nearest facilities to get you the help you need. It is available in both English and Kiswahili and it can work on both smartphones and analogue phones,” she said. Once you submit the details of the incident, Kanyeri said, the response team will be able to locate you or the victim and a response team will be dispatched to you urgently.