The fate of evictees from Maasai Mau forest appeared to be sealed after the government issued orders to close the two internally displaced persons camps in Narok South. Saptet IDP camp has 150 households while that of Olmegenyu has 50. While raising serious security concerns, area deputy county commissioner Felix Kisalu said they have issued a 40-day notice to all the people living in the camp to vacate. Speaking at Segemian when he met the camp officials on Monday, Kisalu said it is now time for the evictees to move on since their stay was only temporary. “You now need to start thinking beyond and venture into meaningful pursuits that will improve your lives instead of staying here with the hope of returning to the forest,” said Kisalu. He added that the camps have been turned into dens of illegal activities noting that the cases of insecurity are high and criminals are using the camp as their hideouts. “We have noticed that the illegal activities have been taking place in these camps like murder, illicit brew, drug abuse, mistreatment of school going children among others vices," "The move is aimed at improving safety of the people of the camp and its environs,” he said. He added that once they have moved out of the camps, the government will support each household to get alternative livelihoods through government programmes like Uwezo Fund, Women Enterprise Fund among others. “We are urging them to form groups so that they can start their own businesses, earn income, and contribute to their communities and that will help improve the quality of their life instead of idling,” he noted. The administrator assured the evictees that the government will not forget them once they vacate the camp since they have their records. John Barsuguta ,one of the officials of Nyumba Kumi in the area, admitted that illegal activities have taken place in the region following the erection of the IDP camps. He added that some of the bodaboda operators have been ferrying illicit brew and bhang at night worsening life at the camp. The land occupied by the evictees was purchased by Deputy President William Ruto and allies after they were evicted from the forest in 2019. However, the Mau issue has now turned into a new political battleground in the hunt for Kipsigis votes in the South Rift region. DP Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi are now reading from different scripts since the evictions took place. On December 3, 2021, Gideon toured the Tendwet area of Narok South subcounty and heard pleas from evictees. He urged the evictees to give him time to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and discuss the matter. The Kanu chairman lashed at the DP for being in government from 2013 but failed to settle the evictees or help them be compensated. His sentiments seem to contradict DP Ruto’s recent utterances in Narok North subcounty where he said the 2019 Mau Forest evictions were done according to law and should not be used for political gain. He further said Mau issue was a gone case after the illegal settlers were evicted from the forest to pave way for its restoration.