Deputy President William Ruto's UDA party on Monday called for the investigation and prosecution of 'well known' politicians linked to previous "madoadoa" remarks. The party said in a statement that it will be presenting to the Director of Public Prosecutions a list of such politicians for legal action to ensure equal application of the law. However, the party which has been crying foul that the security agencies are unfairly targeting its members for hate speech, did not provide the names to the media. The party said that it is alive to the fact that during the electioneering period all stakeholders including 'our members' and all other politicians across the political divide must exercise caution while engaging citizens to avoid fueling ethnic tension. "For this reason, the party further calls on law enforcement agencies to exercise similar vigilance and bring to book other well known political actors who in recent past have used the term madoadoa and other disparaging terms to mobilise support for political causes," UDA said in a statement. The party went on: "In this regard, the party shall be furnishing the DPP with the particulars of these political actors and the specificities  of their statements." The UDA outfit said that, while it welcomes the DPP's probe into Meru Senator Mithika Linturi's "madoadoa" utterances, other politicians known to fanning hate must be held to account as well. "Unless the investigation and prosecution of all irresponsible political statements is conducted in a fair, dispassionate and non-discriminatory manner, it runs the risk of creating political polarisation quite contrary to the intentions of the law," the party said. The party noted that, while it hopes that justice will be served on Linturi, the DPP must analyse the evidence surrounding the senator's remarks. "We call upon the DPP t consider the context within which these words were used by hon. Linturi and to avoid interpretation of this term('madoadoa) in isolation of the intervening contextual situation," said UDA secretary general Veronica Maina who signed the statement. The DP's party said it commits itself to ensuring that its rank and file will conduct itself in strict compliance with the stipulations of the law.