Radio Africa Group will be carrying out monthly pollsters until July, 2022, the company has announced. "Radio Africa will continue to hold pollsters to high standards as we head to what looks like a tight presidential contest," Star Head of Content Paul Ilado said. Ilado said the decision to publish polls every month will open the door for higher professional standards in the industry. "It doesn't take much to conduct a poll these days, but it does take quite a lot of care to conduct one well. Radio Africa’s standards mean that polls conducted and covered by our network have been thoroughly checked out by competent professionals," he said. Radio Africa Group has from time to time published political opinion polls through the Star newspaper as well as its Radio stations namely; Radio Jambo, Classic 105, Kiss FM and Gukena FM. These political polls have been monumental in determining the status of the political climate leading to various elections and by-elections. "We believe credible opinion polls are critical in a democratic process. The country is preparing for elections and its important that citizens engage their current and potential leaders from an informed point of view," he said. The Head of content said Radio Africa has rolled out a plan to embark on conducting monthly political poll surveys leading to the August 2022 general elections. The results shall then be published in the Star newspaper and all our radio stations. "This is to gauge the political realignments ahead of the August 2022 general elections. The surveys shall be conducted by Radio Africa Limited’s research department and shall also be financed by the organization. In case of change in financier, the opinion poll report shall indicate as such," he added. The opinion poll publications shall adhere to all the provisions of the Publication of Electoral Opinion Polls Act - No. 39 of 2012. The methodology to be used in the surveys will be as follows; Dates of Field Work, First week & second week of every month, Sample Size 3152, Sampling Methodology Random, Multi-stage stratified using PPS (proportionate to population size) Spread across all the 47 counties in Kenya. Sample split is guided by all adults age 18+ proportionate to size as per the per the latest IEBC register. Population Universe; Kenyan adults, aged 18 and above living in all the 47 counties of Kenya Data Collection Methodology; Computer Aided Telephone Interview (CATI) Sampling Error ; +/- 1.75 % with a 95% confidence level (Note: Higher error-margins for sub-samples) Interview Languages; English/Swahili. Finance; The Surveys shall be funded by the Radio Africa Limited unless indicated otherwise. We would like to assure our readers and listeners that we take seriously our responsibility to report polling carefully and objectively.