Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has urged ANC party boss Musalia Mudavadi to disband One Kenya Alliance and join Azimio La Umoja. The MP said it is only Azimio La Umoja that can make Mudavadi’s political ambitions come true as he (Mudavadi) will be part of the next government. Osotsi told the Star on the phone that Oka is part of the handshake and it will be no big deal if they join Azimio La Umoja. “ANC is going to witness more defections on the ground as its MCAs and other officials join Azimio to add more weight on Raila Odinga’s camp as he heads to the ballot for presidency,” Osotsi said. “They should stop the sideshows, blackmail and confusion. Oka is angling for President Uhuru Kenyatta's support but Uhuru has shown clear signs that he is with Raila.” He said any of the Oka principals who will join Deputy President William Ruto should be ready for a serious political backlash from the people and Uhuru will not handle them with kids gloves any more. “They will instantly become political opponents of the handshake team,” Osotsi said. The Oka team is made up of Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, Kanu's Gideon Moi and United Democratic Party leader Cyrus Jirongo. Earlier on, Lugari MP Ayub Savula said he would ensure Mudavadi joins Azimio La Umoja to support Raila's presidential bid. He said Mudavadi stands a better chance of taking the leadership of the country from Raila if he supports the ODM boss in this year's polls. The lawmaker said if Mudavadi joins Azimio La Umoja, Raila will stand a better chance of beating Ruto in the election. “He [Mudavadi] is not sure if Ruto will pass the baton to him, but in Raila’s camp we are 100 per cent sure,” Savula said. He said he would spearhead discussions to ensure Mudavadi is not left in a political desert. However, Mudavadi’s allies have said the ANC party boss will go all the way to the ballot to ensure the Luhya political dignity is restored. Savula said his decision to join Azimio La Umoja was to ensure he does not lose in the forthcoming general election. The lawmaker said Azimio La Umoja is the team that will form the next government and he wants to be part of it. Edited by A.N