The One Kenya Alliance brigade has promised through actions to debunk the long held narrative that this year's election is a two horse race. They, in this regard, vowed to pull a surprise in the remaining campaign period in a bid to see that Kenya shall be governed by one of the co-principals. Led by Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Narc Kenya's Martha Karua, the leaders reiterated that Kenya indeed has a rich menu of candidates that Kenya should look out for instead of the ordinary 'big fish'. The OKA movement consists of Wiper, KANU and Narc-Kenya, which was the latest entrant. Karua has said she will vie for Kirinyaga governorship on a Narc Kenya ticket. Speaking in Kirinyaga on Sunday evening, Kalonzo said that Kenya was going to be safe under their hands as they are development minded and have the best interest of Kenyans at heart. With that regard, he vowed that they shall aggressively go round the entire country marketing their agendas which he expressed optimism that Kenyans will subscribe and eventually vote them in. He said they have since accepted and moved on since their former coalition partners ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula dumped the alliance for 'Kenya Kwanza' movement and have now been concentrating on getting other like minded partners. "Even though they left us, we shall still push on with our mission to market our agendas as we continue expanding our horizons with other like minded parties," Kalonzo said. Kalonzo also took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto saying his actions in the course of the Jubilee administration have been portraying that he undermines and disrespects President Uhuru Kenyatta. "When they assumed office they worked together and even wore similar clothes but somewhere along the way they fell out because the deputy showed less regard and respect for his boss," he said. The Wiper leader urged Kenyans to assess their leaders and vote in accountable ones and do away with those who have been implicated in the nation's past dark histories. He cited those accused of inciting and master minding the razing to ashes the Kiambaa reformed church in Eldoret during the 2007 post election season where several Kenyans lost their lives "I believe we need true repentance. We are longing for the day the characters implicated in the unfortunate incident will go to church and repent," he said. He said during his tenure as the vice president during the grand coalition government, the then president was always at ease as he was an honest and trusted leader. Kalonzo was speaking in Kerugoya stadium during the unveiling of Karua as the Narc Kenya's Kirinyaga gubernatorial candidate. Karua on her part said her party entered into the OKA alliance as they share the same visions as other party members. In the same breath, she emphasized that they will square it out with the supposedly 'big parties' and as such should not be belittled. "No one should be saying that there are only two horses in the competition. We have a lot of people and some are still in the process of joining the race. We(OKA) promise that in the next six weeks, we shall pull a surprise which will leave you talking about the only horse," Karua said. Karua at the same time promised to correct the errs that have been made by the present county administration if elected as county governor. She promised to prioritize on health, agriculture, talents among others. She said she is ready to serve the people of Kirinyaga as a governor even as she champions the interests of the country at the national level. KANU party leader Gideon Moi advised Kenyans to selfishly guard their interests by according leadership roles to accountable leaders. He said Kenyans cannot afford to fall into the hands of corruptible characters who have proved not to be trusted with public resources. Gideon also hailed Martha for remaining steadfast, patriotic and incorruptible. He said she is a true leader who have exemplified true leadership in course of her public service and as such Kirinyaga resident should stand with her. His sentiments were echoed by former Lugari MP Cyrus Njirongo who praised Karua for her courage, assertiveness and the role she has played towards seeing a just and a law abiding country. He in addition described her as the only 'man' in former President Mwai Kibaki's administration thus commanding respect and admiration. He further emphasized the need of a united nation thus urged Kenyans to embrace peace and unity in the forth coming elections. Several leaders elected on Wiper party accompanied the team. They include Agnes Kavindu (Senator Machakos) Joyce Kamene (Machakos Machakos Woman Representative) Muchiri Mawathe (Embakasi South) Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), Edith Nyenze (Kitui West) among others.