Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi has asked Azimio La Umoja supporters not to sacrifice his bid for Nairobi governor because of ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential bid. He said doing so would be like giving Raila conditions for backing. Wanyonyi spoke on Monday at a Nairobi hotel when he met church leaders who are backing his candidature. He said it is absurd for supporters of Raila to ask him to drop his city bid as a compromise for backing the ODM leader. “Elective positions should not be sacrificed. Let us weigh who has weight and support that person instead of asking people to drop their bids because you are supporting their flag bearer,” the two-term lawmaker said. Wanyonyi urged supporters of Azimio la Umoja to look at the bigger picture so they can actualise the dream to make Raila president. “We must support Raila unconditionally. Do not come with baggage. If Raila ascends to the top, he will fight for the things we all want for this country. “For elective positions, let people decide. In ODM, we will go for primaries to pick the candidates,” he said. The religious leaders led by Church and Clergy Association of Kenya chairman Hudson Ndeda said they will actively play a role in the forthcoming elections by giving faithfuls political direction. “The church will give directions and recommendations where need be. We apologise to Kenyans for being too quiet when so much has been happening on the political scene,” Ndeda said. He said those eying the Nairobi governor seat should be people who have been “tried and tested.” “We have to go for people who have demonstrated their leadership abilities. We made mistakes in the past and we will not walk that road again,” he said. Rev Edward Khasakala of African Divine Church said supporters of Raila from other parties should not ask Wanyonyi to drop his bid since they will also be fielding a candidate in the race. “The people of Nairobi should be left to decide who their next governor is,” he said. On November 14, 2021, Wanyonyi urged Jubilee and ODM parties to hold joint nominations once they formalise their merger. “For the Nairobi governor position, we should allow people to make the decision. As we discuss our merger, we must avoid an attempt to distribute positions,” Wanyonyi said. He said Uhuru and Raila should allow Nairobi residents to choose the best man for the job. “The distribution of positions is illegal and unconstitutional. We do not want blackmail. ODM, Jubilee and any other partner should come to the table with no hidden agenda to ensure we get an acceptable outcome,” he added. A section of ODM leadership in Nairobi have criticised Wanyonyi for launching his campaign without consulting the party. They argue that once ODM and Jubilee form a coalition, there will be some form of compromise and sharing of positions. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)