Opposition leader Raila Odinga on Friday commissioned a Sh1.4 billion water project to end the long term water shortage in Homa Bay town. Raila opened the Homa Bay Cluster Project whose construction was done by Lake Victoria Water Works Development Agency. The project was funded by the Belgium Government in collaboration with the Ministry of Water. The project produces 8800 cubic meters per day which is higher than the 5000 cubic meters needed by Homa Bay town residents. The water will be supplied in Homa Bay town, surrounding villages and learning institutions in the area. In what is aimed at reducing electricity bills, the water will be pumped using solar energy. The solar energy will take 80 per cent of energy used for pumping the water. The remaining 20 per cent will be electricity that will only be used when there is no solar energy especially at night. Raila who opened the project as the African Union Envoy for Infrastructure was accompanied by Water Cabinet Secretary Cecily Kariuki, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti. Other leaders included Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Senator Moses Kajwang', Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma,his Kasipul counterpart Ong'ondo Were and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga. Raila said the project is necessity for the people of Homa Bay. “I’m happy because today we’re ending the paradox that Homa Bay is near Lake Victoria and has been suffering from water shortage,” Raila said. He said the project goes hand with the millennium development goal of infrastructural development. "Infrastructure is the foundation of economic development. We thank the Belgium Government and the Ministry of Water for undertaking this project in Homa Bay," Raila said. The ODM leader said he had placed provision of clean water in his ten agenda in his quest for presidency.He urged residents to develop a habit of storing water during rainy seasons. “A lot of water goes into Lake Victoria and other water bodies during rainy seasons because people don’t harness it. Let’s be storing water to avoid wastage," Raila said. Kariuki said her Ministry is undertaking various water projects worth Sh2.5 billion in Homa Bay. "We are committed to improving water supply in this county. Clean water is a source of good health," Kariuki said. Awiti said his administration has also invested in water bore holes to enhance water supply in the county. “Homa Bay is trying the best to provide residents with water,” Awiti said.