The battle for the Nairobi City Governor is gaining momentum after the incumbent Ann Kananu declared she will defend her seat. The first female Nairobi Governor stated that her silence should not be mistaken that she is not interested in defending her position. “For those who think that I'm weak, I have tasted and I'm living it and I want to tell them that I'm here to stay," Kananu said. "Let us meet pale kwa uwanja pamoja, tushindane lakini tuhakikishe ( lets us meet in the ballot and compete but ensure ) that whatever we are doing is for the good of Nairobians and for the people.” Kananu was sworn in as Nairobi's third and first female Governor on November 16, 2021, after former Governor Mike Sonko was impeached. Calling on 'Girl Power', the Governor urged women to come out of their comfort one and go for elective positions. “To women out there dont be afraid because this is our year of victory. Let us come in big numbers and vie for elective positions in the coming elections,” she said. Currently, in Nairobi, there are 122 MCAs out of which 85 are elected and the rest are nominated. Out of the 85, only five are women, wards reps for South B, Mlango Kubwa, Laini Saba, Kware and Kariokor/Ziwani ward with the rest being men. The race to become Nairobi's fourth Governor has now intensified with politicians and technocrats declaring their interest in the seat. TOP CONTENDERS With Kananu joining the line, she will battle it out with Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, Makadara Mp George Aladwa, former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru,  Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Businesswoman Agnes Kagure and President for Kenya National Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KNCCI), Richard Ngatia. However, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi is the only one who has officially launched his bid for the gubernatorial seat. If elected as Nairobi's third Governor in next year's general elections, Wanyonyi believes he will bring something which his predecessors lacked in leadership, Integrity and professionalism. For the past 15 years, Wanyonyi has served Nairobi, first as a nominated councillor between 2007 and 2013 and then as MP for Westlands Constituency since 2013. His counterpart from Makadara George Aladwa is expected to officially launch his bid this month. The legislator last month announced that will be seeking the seat on an ODM ticket, arguing he was the best pick to lead the city. “I want to make it clear that I will be in the race and I am doing it for the people because they want me to move to the next level,” Aladwa added Senator Sakaja believes Nairobi would be better and safer in his hands as he won't be a one-man show, will hire a city manager, get along with State House and permanently solve problems with transit and other master plans. He said his predecessors Evans Kidero was too technical while impeached Sonko was too political and squandered goodwill. Sakaja also argued that serving as Nairobi Senator allowed him to pass laws that were impactful to the city and he is now seeking an opportunity to implement them. Bishop Wanjiru has also expressed confidence that she will become Nairobi’s first elected female Governor. “Mbele iko sawa. Chama ni UDA, Rais ni Ruto, Nairobi Governor is Bishop Margaret Wanjiru ukipenda mama na kazi. Nairobi is a done deal in heaven and on earth. If God is for me no one can be against me! In this race we lead, others can follow," she said. Business tycoon Agnes Kagure has already hit the ground, engaging with Nairobi residents. She has pledged to do better for the youths and do better for the women in the city by empowering them. “In eight months Nairobi will have a governor who understands the city's problems, utilizes its opportunities and potentials, and leads it to prosperity. I'll be that governor,” Kagure noted. KNCCI chairperson Richard Ngatia during the Azimio La Umoja event last month at Kasarani hinted that he will soon have engaged with the people of Nairobi. “Nairobi mpo…Nairobi mpo… Leo si siku yangu lakini tutakuwa na mazungumzo hapo baadaye (Nairobi residents , today is not my day but we shall be having conversations later),” Ngatia said. Edited by D Tarus