The Jonathan Jackson Foundation (JJF) under the ‘Bakee Mtaani Project’ (basketball in the hood) plans to construct 12 basketball courts in Kenya. The 12 courts will be done in the first phase. Already, the foundation has constructed three in Nairobi. The third basketball court was officially launched and handed over at Riruta Stadium in Kawangware, following through on the promise of building more courts within the communities in Nairobi’s informal settlements. Gatina Primary and HGM Primary School both in Dagoretti North were among the beneficiaries of the initiatives. The ceremony focused on empowering the community members through the support of world-class sports facilities. "The basketball court will provide a safe space for the youths to interact and hone their sporting talents " They will also keep them positively engaged hence reduce the chances of them taking part in crime, prostitution, and drug and substance abuse," according to Jonathan Jackson, the chairman of JJF. Exposure to professional basketball, life skills, camaraderie, and scholarships, are all part of the project’s long-term agenda. Jonathan Jackson, who is also the main sponsor of the Bakee Mtaani project said: “I am deeply encouraged by the support for sports in Dagoretti South Constituency under MP John Kiarie’s leadership. I committed to build up to five basketball facilities in the Dagoretti region.” David Kariuki, managing Director of Metrocart Limited congratulated the JJF for creating the facility that fosters sportsmanship. “As a show of support, Metrocart offers to install 4 solar floodlights to ensure the court is well lit for use at night and for security,” said Kariuki. Nairobi Metropolitan Services representative Jane Kagiri stated that the investment supplements the community investments done by NMS and goes beyond sports and positively affects the mental health of the youths and the community at large. Dagoretti South Hon. John Kiarie (KJ) who was the chief guest said: “With the opening of the Riruta Basketball Court, four community teams comprising of two men and two ladies’ have been formed. Sustainable development of the young people is achieved through sports and cultural investments within the communities.” Also in attendance was the  Nairobi Basketball Association (NBA) chairman  Ronnie Owino, who announced that the Nairobi Basketball league will start on March 19 with 46 teams. “The opening of this court will see some league matches being played here,” he said.