Politician Bundotich Kiprop 'Buzeki' has said no amount of pressure will force him to join Deputy President William Ruto's UDA party. He said he does not believe UDA has policies or plans that would bring any change or benefit the country. "Some people were telling me that I had to join by last December but I will not join UDA because of individual interests," Buzeki said on Saturday. He spoke during an elders function in Eldoret. The businessman-politician said he will not support someone to be president because of friendship, but he wants a leader who will serve the country. Buzeki said he will vie for Uasin Gishu governor as an independent candidate. "We should respect the rights of others and operate as per the law and not individual interests," he said. The businessman is considered a front-runner among aspirants seeking to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago, who is serving his final term. Buzeki said he will face whoever will be picked by UDA. “I'm waiting for the finals and I wish all those in UDA well. I'm ready to face whoever will be picked by the party,” he said. UDA has more than eight aspirants seeking the party’s ticket in the race to succeed Mandago. They include Kenya’s envoy to Pakistan Julius Bitok and his counterpart to China, Sarah Serem. Others include Jonathan Bii, Ngenyilel MCA David Sing’oei, Nairobi devolution executive Vesca Kangogo and Soy MP Caleb Kositany. Mandago has said he will vie for the Senate seat in August. But some leaders, led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, have told him to back off and give space to newcomers. “Let Mandago go and campaign for the DP at the national level and let other people vie. He can look for another seat up there after serving as governor for two terms,” Sudi said. But Mandago has insisted he will run for the Senate seat. “I have served well as governor and it’s my right to vie for any other seat. Let Uasin Gishu residents decide, not the likes of Sudi”, said Mandago. Buzeki has defended Mandago, saying the governor has the right to vie as per the law. “He has the right to vie like any other Kenyan because it's within his rights and within the law,” he said. Buzeki said the governor was completing his tenure and no one can stop him from running for any other position either in the county or elsewhere. Edited by A.N