The body of a Standard 5 pupil is being held at Kenyatta National Hospital after her family failed to raise Sh200,000 hospital bill. Hellen Mwende, 10, was admitted to KNH on December 25 after suffering a blood sugar-related illness. However, Mwende died on December 29. Her burial date remains unknown. She was a pupil at Kathunguri primary school in Embu. Mwende’s aunt Purity Njoki said a KNH representative said the body will only be released once they clear the bill. The family is now calling upon friends and well-wishers to help them bury Mwende. Her mother Dorothy Mbura said the family had tried different local hospitals before Mwende was referred to Embu Level 5 hospital and referred to KNH for further treatment. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Mbura said during her hospitalisation at KNH, they relied on well-wishers to fund their daughter’s treatment. Mbura said they are unable to raise the money because together with her husband, they rely on manual jobs. “As a family, we have depleted all our ability to raise the money. We borrowed neighbours and friends to cater for Mwende's bills in various hospitals. Now we don't have any other option,” she said. Mbura pleaded with friends and well-wishers to help them settle the bill, to enable them to pick their daughter's body to bury her decently. Mwende’s father, Peter Ireri said the journey has been tough and have no other means to raise the money. The father of three said he was sad that he lost his daughter and would like to be given her body and bury her accordingly. Ireri said he has no job and relies on manual work to cater for his family's needs. Kathunguri primary school head teacher Catherine Wanja said the family is in dire need of money and urged well-wishers to join hands to ensure the family gets the body of their loved one from KNH. She said the school has so far begun contributing to help the family. “Mwende was a good pupil and we have to ensure we stand with them and other families in time of need. So far, the pupils have raised Sh1,800 while teachers and staff, are organising their contributions,” Wanja said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris