All is set for the homecoming ceremony of former Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya to launch his governor  bid for Trans Nzoia at Kenyatta stadium on Saturday. The rally, expected to be attended by most leaders from Western Kenya allied to the Azimio la Umoja, will set the stage for a hot contest in bid to succeed Governor Patrick Khaemba who has served two terms. “We will have many key leaders at the event among them Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and leaders from the Democratic Action Party-Kenya,” Trans Nzoia county assembly speaker Joshua Werunga said. County commissioner Samson Ojwang said security will be beefed to ensure the rally is free from any interference, adding that every aspirant will be given a right to hunt for votes peacefully. “We know the event will be largely attended hence the county security team will be on high alert. The police will provide maximum security for all in attendance,” Ojwang said. The meeting is also expected to witness  defections in response to a move by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi  and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang’ula to join hands with UDA. “We will be welcoming more defectors from the Ford Kenya party who are not happy with the direction the party has taken with the current secretary general exhibiting favouritism,” DAP-K Trans Nzoia secretary Patrick Simiyu said. Natembeya has committed to boost health standards in the region to ensure residents have access to the best healthcare. “Better healthcare is something dear to me. Focusing on the Teaching and referral hospital at the expense of basic healthcare is a misplaced priority which must be changed,” he said. He also promised to boost Early Childhood Education through hiring of more teachers and increasing the number of classes to ensure learners don’t travel far in search of the education. Natembeya has also promised to improve road infrastructure to make it easy for residents to commute, especially farmers who have a hard time transporting their produce to the markets. He also promised to boost water supply in the region by ensuring piped water in every village through tapping the commodity from the major water sources in the region. “We will also ensure that tenders go to residents of Trans Nzoia to boost economic development.  We will also ensure every community is represented in my Cabinet,” he said. He also pledged to set up a credit and savings societies for small-scale traders to have access to affordable credit facilities and boost their businesses. “Most small traders are being harassed by shylocks who give them loans at unrealistic terms, this is why some have resorted to the sale of illicit brews. We will end this,” he said. He has also promised to rebuild the Kenyatta stadium in Kitale town to ensure sportsmen and women in the region have access to better training facilities that will see them improve their sporting talents. Natembeya slammed low bursary allocations for needy students by the county government of Trans Nzoia. He took issue with Trans Nzoia MCAs for not prioritising education and  allocating it more funds yet it is a key pillar of development. "I am surprised that students are getting as low as Sh2,000 as bursary from the county government. This is a joke because that is not even enough to be pocket money," he said. The administrator also hit out at MPs in the region for failing to address land related issues through petitions at the National Assembly. "More than 80 per cent of residents of Trans Nzoia have no title deeds. MPs have failed to address this in Parliament." DAP director of elections Ronald Wanjala said Natembeya who will be the party’s candidate, will change the order if elected governor. He said Natembeya will ensure budgetary allocations are prioritised towards addressing the region’s socio-economic challenges instead of financing benchmarking trips. "The essence of leadership is to provide direction and not mere politicking. We will seek to address the challenges that have affected growth in this region," Jumbe said. The former regional commissioner will face off with Maurice Bissau, Dr Abraham Sing’oei, Moses Khaoya, Andrew Wanyonyi, Philemon Samoei, Janet Nangabo, Julia Kichwen and Teresa Metto among others.   -Edited by SKanyara