The race to succeed Governor Alex Tolgos in Elgeyo Marakwet went a notch higher after outgoing Eldoret Polytechnic chief principal Josphat Sawe formally launched his campaigns. Sawe said he was best placed to succeed Tolgos and he had the necessary capacity to take the county to the next level. “I am now formally in the race and will go out there to market my manifesto and also the plans I have to work with the people of our county moving forward," Sawe said. He was speaking at his home near Lelan in Marakwet West, Elgeyo Marakwet county. He hosted delegations from all wards in the county to formally announce his bid. The outgoing college boss will ride on his campaign slogan “Sawe ni Sawa” meaning Sawe is the right person for the county. Others who will compete with him include former MP for Keiyo South Jackson Kiptanui, current Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich and university don Joyce Chemenjo. Former Inspected General of Police Joseph Boinnet is also expected to announce his entry into the race by the end of this month. Sawe, who has been an educationist for more than 30 years managing various institutions, joins the race with a wealth of experience in management. His vast experience places him as a top contender for the seat. He holds a Master's degree in Educational Administration, Leadership and Management, and is credited with transforming the Eldoret National Polytechnic from its initial state of a regional institution. It now has more than 40,000 students following the expansion programmes. “I have the necessary experience, ability and wisdom to get our county to the next level hence my decision to vie for the governorship in Elgeyo Marakwet," Sawe said. Elgeyo Marakwet is mainly inhabited by the Marakwet and Keiyo communities. Sawe has advantage in that he hails from Marakwet West but has his parental roots in Rimoi area of Keiyo North. So far he is the only candidate from Marakwet. He has been laying ground for the stab at governorship, and analysts in the county say that his entry will alter the political situation because he is considered more mature for the race. The county receives one of the least budgets of about Sh3.5 billion. Sawe says with clear planning, the county's great potential to produce wealth for its people and create many jobs for local youth can be exploited. Most of the aspirants in the region, including Sawe are expected to vie through United Democratic Alliance which will pick its flag bearer through primaries. The county is considered one of DP William Ruto’s political strongholds where he enjoys near fanatical support. (edited by Amol Awuor)