ANC has rubbished reports that it has invited Deputy President William Ruto to its party leader Musalia Mudavadi’s presidential bid launch on Sunday. This even as it emerged that Mudavadi has okayed the presence of his partners in the One Kenya Alliance as well as National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. The Amani National Congress leader, who has been under pressure to unveil his political plans, is seeking the National Delegates Convention’s green light to run for the presidency. On Thursday, nominated senator Petronila Were told the Star that Ruto has not been invited to the Bomas of Kenya on Sunday. “The top political leadership of the country that we have invited are the Oka principals, I can confirm that because I did sign the letters,” Were said. She went on, “The rest are just rumours because the other leader we have invited is speaker Muturi who is a personal friend to our party leader.” Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala also said Ruto and UDA officials had not been invited to the convention. Malala, who has been seen to enjoy close ties with the Deputy President, termed the reports as mere propaganda. “I am not a member of the committee that is sending invites but I do not think the party has invited the Deputy President," he said. "We have invited Speaker Justin Muturi, Oka principals and Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua,” he added. Malala said it would be absurd to invite a competitor to such an event. “In such events, people invite friends and not the competition,” he added. Muturi confirmed he had been invited to the meeting on social media, where he posted a picture of his card. “Thank you for the invite,” the Speaker said. The card indicated that Sunday's event will be the party's NDC and Mudavadi's presidential launch. Lugari MP Ayub Savula also expressed doubts that the DP could have been invited to the meeting. “I have said it before, if they invite him, I will not attend the meeting,” he said. He said such a move would strengthen his resolve to rally behind ODM leader Raila Odinga's Azimio La Umoja Movement. An official in UDA said Ruto's attendance was still being discussed. “There is a proposal that Ruto's allies from western, Rift Valley and Coast to attend,” he said. Mudavadi has told his supporters to expect a major announcement during the meeting. The ANC leader said the NDC will give him the mandate to spearhead and engage in any coalition arrangement that “will be beneficial to the people of Kenya and the party.” Speaking at close of an Oka retreat in Elementaita on January 14, Kalonzo said all Oka principals had been invited to the ANC meeting. “All of us have been invited and we will be attending. Musalia also attended Kanu's, Wiper and Ford Kenya's NDCs so we will be reciprocating,” he said. It was not clear if Mudavadi had invited Raila to his big day. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito doubted whether his party leader had received an invite for the event. Raila attended the Wiper party’s NDC at Kasarani stadium on November 25. On September 30, the former premier graced the Kanu national delegates conference in Nairobi where party chairman Gideon Moi was endorsed for the top seat. However, Raila did not attend Ford Kenya's convention where party leader Moses Wetang'ula was equally endorsed. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula severed links with the ODM leader, leading to the collapse of the National Super Alliance. The three later joined hands with Moi to form Oka.