Jimmy Kibaki, the eldest son of former President Mwai Kibaki, has urged politicians seeking elective posts to unite the nation and campaign peacefully. He said Kenyans should reject leaders who incite them to violence. “Politics isn’t a matter of life and death. Elections come and pass, and I don’t understand why you should attack your brother or sister," Jimmy said. He said his father lost the 1992 and 1997 elections but became president in 2002. Jimmy was speaking at The New Democrats party headquarters during an aspirants' meeting on Friday. He is the deputy party leader of The New Democrats party whose national chairman is Nyeri governor aspirant Thuo Mathenge. Jimmy said his father will be happy if the country conducts a peaceful election. “My father, Mwai Kibaki, would wish Kenya to have a peaceful election and I'm passing this message on behalf of him," he said. He said his father inspired him to join politics and Kibaki is aware of The New Democrats outfit and party members have his blessing. Jimmy said in the August 9 General Election Kenyans will elect leaders based on merit, not party. He urged Kenyans to fully support TND party. It has 13 MCAs and one MP. He said TND is aiming to win between 50 and 150 parliamentary seats in the coming election to give it more bargaining power during the formation of coalitions after the polls. He said the party might not field a presidential candidate but join other formations to form a formidable force. “The big boys are watching us. We will sit down with them and negotiate our position in the coming government," Jimmy said. Mathenge said top government officials have contacted party officials with the intention of joining the outfit. He said the party has built a strong foundation and it will only issue direct tickets in places where there will be no competing candidates. “We want to win as many seats as possible because we want to form a coalition government with other parties. This is because the government will be formed by a coalition of parties, not a single party,” he said. Thuo urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to hold talks with leaders from the Mt Kenya region to cool the rising political temperatures. Tana River county assembly speaker Justin Nkaduda has joined the party in whose ticket he will seek the governor's position in August. Party secretary general Fredrick Muthangya said they have enough resources to campaign for their aspirants. He said they will traverse the country to drum up support for their candidates. Edited by A.N