Lawyer Zehrabanu Janmohamed has once again found herself in the spotlight after a grandson of the late retired president Daniel Moi filed a court case against her. Collins Kibet Toroitich Moi in court papers accused Zehrabanu, the executrix and trustee of Moi's will, of plotting to disinherit him his rightful share of the late grandfather's wealth, according to court documents. But as the court battle continues, questions linger on who lawyer Zehrabanu is. Zehrabanu is the daughter of Mohamed Taki Janmohamed and Khurshid Tejani Janmohamed, according to Africa Federation organization. She did her ‘A’ levels education in Nairobi Kenya and went to the U.K. for her LLB degree at the University College London (UCL). She obtained the law degree in 1986 and proceeded to become a Barrister at Law, Lincoln Inn in 1987. Zehrabanu is married to Mudassar Nazar, a former Pakistan National Cricket team opening batsman. Legal practice She returned to Kenya in 1988 and joined a law firm, Archer and Wilcock as a pupil in 1988. She rose from the ranks to become a partner in 1993 and senior partner in 2002. Zehrabanu currently practices in the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court of Kenya. She was conferred with the title of Senior Counsel of the Supreme Court of  Kenya by chief justice emeritus David Maraga in November 2020. Managing Moi properties High Court judge Aggrey Michelle on October 9, 2020, gave her permission to manage the vast estate of late  ex-President Moi. Zehrabanu had filed an application, as required by law, seeking a grant to execute the will that appointed her to be in charge of late Moi's properties. The court issued the grant after it established that there was no opposition to her application. Many firsts Her father’s passion for cricket shaped her liking for the sporting activity such that she became an ardent supporter of Sir Ali Muslim Club (SAMC). SAMC is an organization committed to the growth and advancement of sports within the Muslim community in Kenya. She is the first female member of SAMC. She is also the first lady cricket umpire in Kenya. In 2012, she became the first lady in the world to be a chairperson of a National Cricket Board. She is also the first lady to head a Continental Cricket Association after she was elected as the Chairperson of the Africa Cricket Association. President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2020 awarded her ‘Mzalendo Award’ for her philanthropic works of food distribution to vulnerable families during the Covid-19 pandemic period.