Ronald Bundi Maucho and his family (wife and five children) have observed a family tradition of trooping back to his Nyakegogi village in Kisii to observe the end year festivities. They had left Mombasa on the morning of Christmas Day to celebrate the festive season in Kisii before the tragic accident happened. An overlapping and speeding driver of a Subaru car swerved into his lane at Egwata area of Mackinnon near Voi. Maucho, his three daughters and wife did not make it. The five bodies are being preserved at the Jocham Hospital mortuary. His two little sons: Mike and Venard survived with injuries and were rushed to Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital. According to friends and close family members, Bundi was a civil engineering contractor working at the South Coast. Albert Moturi said his brother was a generous family man whose potential has been cut short by the accident. Executive hotelier Mohamed Hersi recounted his interactions with Bundi, calling him a man who “walked the narrow path of integrity” in the construction sector that is wrought with corruption. “Hard work and commitment were his middle and surnames. Many homes in Diani and even Mombasa would have the footprint of Ronald,” Hersi said. In a previous interview, a close family friend Philip Kwenya told reporters that Bundi’s family used to travel to Kisii every Christmas week for the holidays. “We were together on Christmas eve. They usually travel home for Christmas and this loss is tragic to all of us. We had so many plans together,” said Kwenya. Family members have been meeting at their home in Kisimani Enclave and at St Francis of Assisi Customs Parish church in Nyali for the burial arrangements. Benta Dola, a treasurer of the burial committee, confirmed that a requiem mass will be held today (Wednesday) at St Francis of Assisi Customs Parish in Nyali at 11 am. According to the relatives, the cortege will leave Jocham Mortuary for an overnight stay and burial will be held on Friday in Nyakegogi in Sameta sub-county, Kisii. Marion, who was a student at Star of the Sea High School, was the first-born daughter of the Bundis, Natalie was second-born and a pupil at Loreto Convent Mombasa, and Claire was the fourth-born daughter and a pupil at SOS Herman Primary School. Their classmates described them as friendly and loving. (Additional reporting by Charles Mghenyi)