A 45-year-old man in Kwale has appealed to well-wishers to help raise money for his cancer treatment. The father of seven is battling stomach cancer and is in dire need of surgery and chemotherapy. Ali Jogoo Abdallah, who lives in Mwabungo, says he can't afford the expensive cancer treatment as he is required to raise Sh250,000 for at least one treatment cycle. Speaking at home, Abdallah said his illness started as a simple stomach growth which was later diagnosed as cancer. "The stomach growth developed on October 29, 2020, I went for a screening in Msambweni Subcounty Referral Hospital but did not get help and was asked to go to a private hospital where I was diagnosed with cancer," he said. Abdallah, who was an active person, now spends his days in the house due to the pain. He has since then sought local remedies and traditional herbs in an attempt to cure the disease to no avail and in the process spent the little money he had. His family, though supportive, still believe the tumour is a result of witchcraft but Abdallah won't give in to their misconception about his condition. More than 250 cancer cases were reported in Kwale last year. At least two of them are recorded daily. According to Abdallah, the doctors told him if the cancer is not treated immediately his health would deteriorate. "I was advised to start treatment immediately because as it grows, it will cause indigestion problems and eventually shut down the system," he said. Currently, his health has worsened. The swelling in his stomach is growing and he has to rely on painkillers. His extended family has also exhausted its finances as three members are also suffering from various cancers, with one of them succumbing two months ago. "My life is now at the mercy of God and well-wishers. If there is anyone out there who can help me, please do so because I need the financial support," he said. Although some friends have reached out to help, it is still not enough because he uses the little money for food and some medication to ease his pain as he has no source of income after quitting his job due to the illness. His wife Zuhura Hassan said the burden of providing for the family has fallen on her and now sells viazi karai to fend for the family. "I have decided to help my husband raise the children because his condition doesn't allow him to work," she said. "I am appealing for help so that my husband can get the required treatment and ease his suffering."    -Edited by SKanyara