No, my party leader Musalia Mudavadi is not under any pressure or walking a political tightrope. In my view, he’s not under any political difficulty. What we have seen are just two members who have expressed their political opinion. They are Senator Cleophas Malala and Lugari MP Ayub Savula. They have expressed what they want. Malala has expressed his opinion in favour of Deputy President William Ruto. He attended Ruto’s event in Eldoret on Saturday and he said what he said and we all heard. Savula has expressed his intention and even attended ODM leader and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s meeting at Bukhungu Stadium. These are politicians. They have personal interests. Personal reasons. They can do what they want. But our party leader has come out to say that he did not send anybody. But they have the freedom of association. It is in the Bill of Rights. The right to associate freely and the right to speak their minds. What he (Mudavadi) said on Sunday in church is that Malala did not say anything against ANC in Eldoret. So he’s not condemned him. Savula, in my view, is the only person who said some bad things about the One Kenya Alliance that my party leader and his team are building. So, ANC is intact and Musalia is not under any pressure or walking any tightrope. If anything, it’s still too early in the day. Proper campaigns start properly three months to the election. It’s possible to run a three months campaign and win. In 2002 that was done. In 2013 it was done. And even 2017, Nasa was formed very late and it almost won the elections. IEBC timelines are also very clear and I don’t think the Senate will make any further amendments to the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to alter the deadline for the formation of coalitions. There is no hurry. As the President told us, this is a marathon. It is not a sprint. Probably those who started early are pacesetters. Musalia and Oka are the real players. We are confident we will go all the way to the ballot and win. The ANC nominated Senator spoke to the Star (Edited by V. Graham)