Why don't you and your significant other not pair your look? Have you ever gone out on a date with your significant other dressed in matching outfits? Couples who match outfits are believed to be outdated or showing off. However, this can be a cute way to show everyone you’re a couple. You should not be afraid of telling the world that he or she is your partner. There are lots of ways to do it; it doesn’t have to be the exact same set of clothes. You can simply match colours or patterns; wear outfits that coordinate in some way. Most of those proposing a couple’s look are women; women are more often the ones initiating a “pair look". That’s an indication to men that suggesting a couple’s outfit to your partner will make them really happy. If they’re a social media user, it looks great on Instagram, which will give you major bonus points. There are plenty of ways to match your look with your significant other, rather than just a custom printed T-shirt with your names on the back. From matching tees to unisex clothing and accessories to creating coordinating looks. You don’t have to go all out; simply matching the colour of your tie with their blouse could be enough. You can also match the shoes, belt, waist bags or even the hair. Couples who both have dreadlocks explore the pairing look by styling their dreads the same way. Some more serious matching outfits include full suits, Ankara suits or two-piece outfits. It can be mixed and matched with tonnes of different bottoms, knits and accessories, so your looks can be complementary without being identical. These days, siblings enjoy matching outfits more than ever. Still on couples' outfits, especially when attending weddings, they go all out and wear designed Ankara outfits. In this case, the man is always in an African or Ankara shirt, while the woman wears an Ankara dress. You can go to the extreme and even match the type and colour of shoes. Young and new couples can easily start out with matching trousers or tees. Later, it will grow to matching hoodies or bomber jackets. With time, it becomes a trend and both of you will always look forward to days when you'll match outfits.