Seme MP aspirant Dr Richard Ayah has urged politicians to shun violence and instead focus on issue-based politics. For a long period, he said, there has been political intolerance and the youth are misused to fight political wars. Ayah, who wants to unseat MP James Nyikal, said the youth should be empowered economically for self-reliance. He said there is a need for collective efforts to address the high level of poverty in the constituency. “We need a change in politics where only real issues affecting the communities, especially the youth, women and the elderly, are discussed and how best to tackle such but not violence,” he said. Ayah cautioned young people against being used by selfish politicians to cause violence. “Let us not be part of the potential violence but be the change that we want in our country,” he said. Ayah said he has seen two incidents of potential violence which can easily get out of hand if not addressed. “I don’t advocate violence and I don’t want to see any kind of violence in Seme and across the country.” He said ODM leader Raila Odinga, who is making the fifth stab at the presidency, does not advocate any form of violence hence all politicians must follow suit. During a sponsored football tournament at Kit Mikayi Primary School in Seme, he outlined a five-point agenda he will focus on if elected. They are helping Seme to access markets, growth of local talent in art and sports for the world stage, promote access to basic needs, empower local technical skills to increase Seme output and build resilient groups- Seme’s 1 Billion Club. Top of his agenda will be building networks that support and grow local talent in sports and culture. For instance, he said the potential of Kit Mikayi has not been fully exploited for revenue generation. He is also focusing on building small businesses to grow the local economy. The objective is to enable residents to be self-reliant economically. The public health specialist targets to promote access to basic needs such as education and water by constituents. He is also championing the prudent use of CDF money. Ayah has been meeting various groups in the constituency to urge them to support his bid. At the weekend, he participated in a funds drive towards voter registration mobilisation. More than Sh1.1 million was raised. Ayah has also been participating in women and youth empowerment initiatives targeted at making them self-reliant. Ayah is a public health specialist who has worked at the University of Nairobi as director of Science and Technology Park, consultant for Unicef, WHO and director, Centre for Health Solutions and Radio Africa. He is a Health Policy and Health Systems Management senior lecturer at the School of Public Health at the University of Nairobi. Ayah is also a member of the Task Force on Covid-19 Vaccine Development. He is the son of former Kisumu Rural MP and Foreign Affairs minister Wilson Ndolo Ayah. Others eyeing the seat include Haggai Kadiri and Lake Region Economic Bloc CEO Victor Nyagaya. Although Nyagaya has not publicly declared his bid, close allies and supporters say he is eyeing the seat in next year’s general election. Nyagaya said he will declare his candidature at the right time. Kadiri has been meeting the youth, women and opinion leaders. He is Kisumu county director for youth and gender. Nyikal will be banking on his track record, including the improvement of road networks and water, to defend his seat. He has helped build six bridges and invested in education infrastructure and bursaries for students across the constituency. His supporters have expressed confidence that the MP will retain the seat in 2022, saying he has initiated various projects for the betterment of constituents. Edited by A.N