A total of 91 illegal immigrants of Ethiopian origin on Sunday broke lose from a private house in Kitengela, Kajiado county. The foreigners, all men of between the ages of 18 - 25 escaped from a mansion at Tumaini Court in Milimani Estate off the old Namanga Road. A video seen by the Star shows the men running out of the home through its main gate after they allegedly broke it at around 4.00pm. Independent sources divulged to the Star that the men were allegedly brought into the house in November 2021. They were reportedly transported to the house inside a trailer. Police are still processing the immigrants, some who were half naked, at Milimani police post and Kitengela police station. "The men have been hiding in the house since November, the house belongs to a Kenyan but rented out to a Tanzanian suspected to have sneaked them in," a source told the Star hours after they broke lose. Isinya Sub county Police commander Ancent Kaloki said the foreigners have been distributed to various police stations across Kajiado county and will be arraigned in court on Monday. “They cannot be accommodate in that station it has a small cell and we have made arrangements to have them brought to Isinya where we have a big cell,” he told the Star on phone. Kaloki said they were reacting to their poor living condition at the house where they were hiding. “We understand some have been here for almost a month, others were brought yesterday with a container but the situation was pathetic and they started reacting… it’s their complaints that exposed them.” Preliminary investigations by police reveals that the 91, (of whom 44 are juveniles) were ferried to the location onboard a trailer, and were being held temporarily as the smugglers sought means to sneak them to another country. Sources said the foreigners claimed they were forced to break lose due to mistreatment by the person who brought and hid them in the house. It is suspected that seven other illegal immigrants of Ethiopian origin arrested at Kasuitu slum in Athi River, Machakos county on Sunday were part of the group. They were tired and hungry. Well-wishers offered them snacks before being ferried to Athi River police station.  Edited by B. Oruta