Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka is currently leading the OKA brigade in mobilising the unregistered residents of Machakos County to register as voters. Kalonzo is accompanied by KANU chairman Gideon Moi, NARC Kenya's Martha Karua and other leaders. Wiper organising secretary Robert Mbui said the meeting is meant to sensitise residents, especially the youth, to take IDs and register as voters. He urged the youth to ensure that they take advantage of the ongoing mass registration exercise to register as voters to elect their preferred leaders on August 9. He said the party was still strong even after ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Kalonzo Musyoka joined UDA. Kalonzo praised Karua for her integrity in leadership. He said she is both a national and international leader with an unmatched image. "We are here to assure the Kenyans that we are together until the last day," he said. On her part, Karua said that Kenyans had many problems, and their rights had been infringed. "We want to tell the country that the fifth Kenyan president is here," Karua said. She urged Kenyans to desist from violence and told leaders to sell their manifesto without diving Kenyans. "We need to safeguard our resources as Kenyans so that we can deliver to you as leaders," Karua said. She told the electorates to look into leaders' track records before casting their votes. Karua said Kenya is a multiparty democracy, and hence all leaders can team up to form a government through coalitions of various political parties. She said this while referring to Deputy President William Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta, who joined to form the Jubilee government in 2013. She said multiparty democracy should be embraced. Gideon Moi called on the residents of lower Eastern to be united behind their leader Kalonzo Musyoka. He praised Kalonzo and Karua for stating that they are uncorrupted and principled. Vihiga Senator aspirant Sammy Mudanya said he had led a brigade from Vihiga County in support of OKA. Mudanya said Mudavadi had joined UDA without the Luhya support. He said, as Luhyia nation, they will support Kalonzo to ensure he becomes the 5th president of Kenya. Mudanya said Ukambani residents should allow Kalonzo to traverse the country to campaign for his candidature. He told Ukambani leaders to drum up support for Kalonzo in the region as he traverses the country.