Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi will rekindle memories the 2012 Jubilee deal in Nakuru with their first joint rally in the area. The two will on Wednesday lead a rally akin to the one Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta held at Afraha Stadium where the Jubilee marriage was sealed. Uhuru and Ruto launched the Jubilee Alliance on December 2, 2012 at Afraha Stadium ahead of the March 4, 2013 General Election. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula will also attend the rally, which comes just two days after Ruto and Mudavadi announced their new-found union. On Tuesday, allies of Ruto, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula said they are all geared up for their first joint rally, which will be used to unveil more leaders who have joined the team. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said UDA is eager to begin holding joint rallies with new partners as the race to succeed Uhuru heads to the homestretch. “We stand with Musalia and Wetang'ula for partnering with Ruto. For the other group, let them continue sponsoring small regional parties the way they wanted,” he said. “We will be in Nakuru for the big event and in the next seven months, we shall have a government that respects the rule of law, democracy and the Constitution” Nakuru is increasingly taking centre stage in the country's politics judging from the number of national meetings that are held in the county. The county is cosmopolitan and inhabited by almost all the tribes. In 2017, Nakuru was among the country's largest vote baskets with 949,618 registered voters. After Nakuru, Ruto, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula will head to Bungoma County on Friday for a rally. They will then go to Kirinyaga on Saturday. Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza said the Nakuru rally will cause an 'earthquake' similar to the one that was witnessed on Sunday during ANC's National Delegates Convention at Bomas of Kenya. “The country is still experiencing the aftershocks of Sunday's earthquake. The rally in Nakuru will cause more earthquakes. It will be the same in Bungoma and Kirinyaga. The whole country will know Musalia and his team are ready to liberate this country,” Tandaza added. He said Mudavadi will now be visible on the ground after facing criticism that he was in too many boardroom meetings instead of campaigning while in One Kenya Alliance. Ford Kenya national organising secretary Chris Mandu Mandu confirmed that his party will be in Nakuru. “We will have the first 'earthquake' rally in Nakuru which will bring together UDA, ANC, Ford Kenya and all like-minded people and stakeholders,” he stated. He said the rally will mark the beginning of the journey to the highest office on land. “I am on the ground organising the event so that everything goes according to plan,” he added Meanwhile, a UDA lobby group has asked supporters of Ruto and Mudavadi to turn up in large numbers in the Nakuru rally to demonstrate support the two leaders have. UDA Lobbies Union chairman Douglas Shiyuka applauded Ruto, Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and former Kiambu governor William Kabogo for joining forces ahead of the General Elections. Speaking during a drive to mobilise youth in Dagorreti North constituency to register as voters, Shiyuka said the new partnership provides hope for the millions of Kenyans living in poverty. “We applaud Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and Kabogo for giving hope to millions of Kenyans by accepting to work with the deputy president,” he said. Catherine Wekesa, who is eying the Nairobi Women Rep seat on UDA ticket urged Ruto and Mudavadi to look for more friends to join the team. “A homestead without friends is not a home. We believe the two can bag more like-minded leaders as we head to the polls,” she said.