Leaders from arid and semi-arid lands under Upya Movement have promised to support Raila Odinga's presidential bid. Raila, in return, said he will hand over his manifesto to Upya leaders led by National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani for incorporation of the views of ASAL communities. “My manifesto is ready and I will give you sections that concern your areas for input but keep it secret until the time we will be launching it," the ODM boss said. "Do not leak it to the bottom-up people since we know their economic model has no basis.” Raila promised that insecurity in northern Kenya will be top on the list of issues his administration will address if he forms the next government. Yatani said Upya Movement leaders want to join a political formation or alliance where they have “a stake and space on the high table.” “Our decision to support you is derived from the trust we have in President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has given us a direction that we have desired. We will support you unconditionally,” he said. Yatani said Upya wants to partner with ODM and other parties that will support Azimio la Umoja. “We want to contribute to your to-do list. We also have our expectations which we know you will fulfil.” Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said pastoralist leaders are backing Raila since they do not want to gamble with the future of their communities. “We have been out in the cold for so long. It is time for us to be on the decision-making table. We no longer want to feel like second-class citizens,” she said. Raila asked candidates who will bid for various elective positions under Azimio la Umoja Movement to remain in the formation if they lose in the elections. The former PM said they expect many hopefuls to contest under Azimio but only one candidate will be elected at a time. "We may have dozens competing for a ward seat under Azimio but only one of them will win. This does not mean those who lose are useless," he said. Raila added that those who will lose under Azimio will be accommodated in his government. "Don't lose in the election and then run away to our competitors. Let's remain in Azimio because together we can achieve what we have set out to do," he added. Yatani said northern Kenya has come of age and is now determined to be part of the ongoing political discourse. “To this effect, we assure you of our full and unwavering support to deliver our region to Azimio la Umoja through the region’s political vehicle-The United Party of Independent Alliance,” he said. Yatani said past attempts by communities in northern Kenya to get together to discuss issues of collective good have failed due to intimidation and sabotage. “On behalf of the people of northern Kenya, I extend a hand of friendship to you and your party. I have no doubt that you will hold the hand of the region in the years to come,” he said. (edited by Amol Awuor)