The vacuum cleaner might be one of the most underrated cleaning tools in the house. Minus cleaning the carpets in the house we practically use it for nothing else. Well, some may use it on your furniture but that’s just it. Haul it out of its storage place vacuum the carpet, go over the couch cushions and you’re done. However, this machine comes quite in handy. More than we give it credit for. There’re a lot of other places around the house that can totally benefit from its suction power. Making cleaning so much easier and saving time in the process. These can all be done by either a handheld vacuum, a wand vacuum, or even the big hose on a standard vacuum. 1) Your cooker top Why wipe crumbs onto the kitchen floor when you’ll just have to sweep them up later? Take that extra work out of the equation by vacuuming the cooker top. Vacuuming is a great way of removing debris from your cooker weekly or before a deep clean. 2) The Other Side of Your carpet/rugs Everyone vacuums the top side of the rug, I mean it’s the one that we see and guests see when they visit so it has to be presentable. But what about the other side of the carpet? With time, the underside collects dust, pet hair, and dirt. Which will end up making your house dusty no matter how many times you vacuum. Also, the accumulated dirt might stain your tiles. Make it a habit of flipping it over to vacuum at least twice a month. 3) Your Oven I know it sounds weird. But, yes it’s true your vacuum is a great tool for sucking up all the crumbs and burnt bits before deep cleaning the oven. After removing the racks, vacuum through the entire oven paying attention to corners and the bottom part to remove all the food debris that might be there. 4) The Base of Your Toilet I know what you’re thinking. No! The vacuum doesn’t belong in the bathroom. But what better way to clean up all the hair, makeup and dust just chilling around the base of your toilet? Every time you clean the bathroom floors, don’t be shy. Grab your vacuum and clean up around the base of the toilet (including the area of floor behind it.) You’ll thank me later. 5) Your Mattress Why do I need to vacuum my mattress? I wash my sheets and air my duvet occasionally. So you wonder. Washing your sheets is one way to ensure a clean bed, but you should also habitually clean your mattress (and air it) to clear it of accumulated dust and hairs that might be hindering your skin care routine from being successful and might also induce allergies. When you put those fresh sheets back on, you’ll be so glad you vacuumed your mattress. 6) Your Blinds Sure, blinds are easy to clean. You can dust each individually but why not cut that chore in half by using a vacuum instead? Saves you time and energy. It’s also a good idea to vacuum the bottoms of your curtains, as they easily collect and store dust from the floor. These tips are guaranteed to keep your house cleaner and allow you to save some time during your cleaning as well.