As predicted, Karan Patel racked up his second career Kenya National Rally Championship win following brilliant displays in Il-Bisil. Driving a Ford Fiesta Rally 2 (formerly R5) Karan totally bossed it, winning all the four stages at stake on the KMSC Kajiado Rally to open an early 33 points lead on the log. The dominant Nairobi driver also savoured three bonus points for winning the power stage which incidentally was the repeat run of the 20.29km Marble 2 stage. Patel beat Jamseet Chana to second by a massive 12 minutes while Steve Mwangi aka "Chifo' celebrated his career-first podium in third place. Daren Miranda also chalked up his career-best fourth in a Subaru Impreza. "We knew what we were going into after we had used the same route during the season-closing event last year," Patel said. "We expected to face a lot of public vehicles and wildlife. With that, we attacked quite a bit as we wanted to take any unnecessary risks like we do when competing with Carl Tundo and Baldev Chager. The plan, for now, is to keep winning and hope we can do all the events in the season." Jasmeet Chana was happy with the third position despite late scares on the power stage. "The first loop was all good, no problems at all. Trying to catch the R5 of Karan was a tall order. There is a major difference between the R5 and our Evolution 10. We blew our turbo in the repeat run the second stage but still managed." "This is my first ever podium since we started rallying and we are overly excited about it. We hope to go for more podium good willing," Mwangi said of his fairy tale finish. Out of 11 starters who entered the Kenya Motor Sport Club (KMSC), only six managed the demanding 216km course. Rajveer Thethy and McRae Kimathi rolled out of the event in the first and second loops respectively. Other casualties included physically challenged Nikhil Sachania who suffered gearbox gremlins. "On one of the jumps in the second stage hit a rock and damaged our gearbox," said Nikhil. Karan's brother Kush Patel came fifth despite limping into service at Kumpa. Leonardo Varese in a career-best sixth won the 2WD category. Rift Valley Motor Sport Club, organizers of the Nakuru Rally, will host the next KNRC on the weekend of March.