Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) Division One driver Karan Patel will headline the list of drivers headed for Sunday’s KMSC Kajiado Rally in Il-Bisil. Karan will be navigated by Tauseef Khan in his Ford Fiesta, now running as R2 (previously R5) in the second tier of the FIA Rally Pyramid in 2022. Karan is one of the fastest drivers in Kenya at the present having won Voi Rally last year and finishing second in four events in Machakos, ARC Rwanda, ARC Tanzania, and the season-closing Guru Nanak Rally which was also held in Il-Bisil. He nevertheless retired on Nakuru, ARC Equator, and Ramisi events with mechanical issues. The Kajiado event has also attracted the likes of Jasmeet Chana and Issa Amwari. Also in the Division One mix is rising star McRae Kimathi who will be teaming up with Mwangi Waithaka. Kimathi Junior and Mwangi became the first-ever crew in the world to give their current Ford Fiesta Rally 3 its maiden podium during Rwanda Mountain Gorilla Rally. The Fiesta Rally 3 has been designed and developed by M-Sport Poland as a cost-effective four-wheel-drive car that provides a crucial stepping stone for young drivers looking to learn the ropes of four-wheel drive rallying. Waithaka said they are undecided on which car they will drive in Bisil. “We will either drive a Subaru GVB or Ford Fiesta Rally 3 which we will be using for ARC events. A decision on the car which we will drive will be made by the team in due course. But all in all, we are in good spirits and good to go for the weekend,” Mwangi said. The new season also marks the end of the KNRC Premier Class which is being replaced by the existing Division One. Division One will comprise the top 15 drivers in the series while Division Two is the second-tier category comprising the next group of 15 drivers. Division Three will be the lowest group in the series. Also listed in the Kenya Motor Sports Club (KMSC) round is multiple 2WD former champion Leonardo Varese who will be co-driven by his high-school friend Kigo Kareithi. Division 3’s Varese will pilot a Sportpesa-sponsored Toyota Auris 2WD listed as car number 44. “Kajiado has always been a good place to rally and it's my hope that we will get a full season package from our sponsors. For now, it is only a partial campaign, so we might do five events,” said Varese. Notable absentees are Carl Tundo, Eric Bengi, and Baldev Chager who earlier announced at the end of the 2021 KNRC season that their Mitsubishi Evo-X cars are up for sale. The trio will be taking part in the East African Safari Classic Rally which starts on February 10.