Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel said fans should show players respect from the stands after defender Antonio Rudiger was hit by objects thrown by Tottenham Hotspur supporters at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. Rudiger, 28, was struck during the second half of Chelsea’s 2-0 victory as goals from Hakim Ziyech and Thiago Silva gave them their first league win since December 26. The incident came a day after Aston Villa pair Lucas Digne, who joined from Everton two weeks ago, and Matty Cash were hit by objects thrown by home supporters at Goodison Park. Merseyside Police have charged a 19-year-old with assault and throwing an item on the pitch during Everton’s 1-0 defeat. “ ... Everybody needs to show respect and behave to certain guidelines, there’s no doubt about it,” said Tuchel. “If this is a new trend we need to act together to make sure that it stops as soon as possible, to protect the fantastic environment and unique atmosphere of England.” Sky Sports reported Metropolitan Police had made two arrests and were working to identify anyone else involved in throwing objects during the match. Meanwhile, Brighton & Hove Albion striker Danny Welbeck netted a late header to cancel out Leicester City forward Patson Daka’s opener as the teams played out a 1-1 Premier League draw at the King Power Stadium on Sunday. Substitute Welbeck rose above Leicester’s James Justin at the back post and connected with Neal Maupay’s deep cross, sending his header into the bottom corner to grab an 82nd-minute equaliser after Daka struck early in the second half. The draw extended Brighton’s unbeaten run to seven matches in all competitions, with the south-coast club staying ninth in the table on 30 points after 22 matches. Leicester, who were missing several players through injury, sit a place below Brighton on 26 points from 20 games. “By the end of the game I think the draw was fair,” Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers told the BBC. “We had some really good moments in the first half, we needed to keep doing what we were doing, had a great start to the second half but they (Brighton) then had a lot more of the ball and put us under a lot more pressure. “No complaints, for where we’re at as a squad it’s a real challenge. We’re where we deserve to be.” After missing a series of chances in the first half, Leicester took the lead in the 46th minute when Daka scored on the rebound after Brighton keeper Robert Sanchez kept out a shot from Harvey Barnes. Brighton midfielder Alexis Mac Allister could have pulled one back for the visitors but he sent his shot over the bar after Pascal Gross picked him out on the edge of the box. However, Welbeck came to Brighton’s rescue with a thumping header, his third league goal this season. Brighton, led by first-team coach Bjorn Hamberg after manager Graham Potter tested positive for Covid-19, looked dangerous after the equaliser and had chances to grab a late winner. Dan Burn’s header was cleared off the line by Leicester midfielder Youri Tielemans before keeper Kasper Schmeichel made a stunning save to deny Leandro Trossard. “I thought Leicester were better first half, we think 0-0 at halftime is good for us,” said first-team coach Hamberg. “I thought we’d have a reaction second half and that was nice to see. It felt as the game went on we could’ve nicked it but they could’ve been 1-0 up at halftime. “I’m so happy to hand it back to Graham now!”