Septum piercings are one of the most popular piercings in the world. Among teens of the newer generation, they were previously just famous among the goths but with celebrities such as Bella Thorne and Zendaya spotting them, people have been hopping on the trend. But septum piercings have been around for thousands of years, with more symbolism than just beauty. In some African tribes, nose rings were a symbol of one's wealth, the larger and more prominent the ring was, the wealthier the individual. In some South Asian tribes, it symbolized that a girl is of marriage age.  So here are some things you should know before getting one: A septum piercing is a piercing that goes through the septum (that lower bit between your nostrils). The needle goes through the thin bit of flesh towards the front of the nose, commonly known by piercers as the sweet spot, and the jewellery is put in place at pain level. Everyone's pain tolerance is different so you need to consider your own before getting one. They usually hurt a little bit more than the standard nose piercing even if pierced well. Note: make sure your piercer is a professional and doesn't go through cartilage as that would cause immense pain. The process should feel like a strong pinch, and you'll develop the urge to sneeze, and your eyes will water. It is wise not to skimp on piercings. Getting pierced wrong or by an inexperienced person may lead to various complications ranging from infections to Keloids. On average, a septum piercing should be about Ksh 1000. Care for a new septum piercing. While most of the pain should have been subsided in 1-3 weeks, septum piercings need about 6-8 months to completely heal. Note: it is important to clean it twice a day during the 1-3 weeks. To clean, you need a saline soak and cotton buds. Clean the crusties off the cotton buds (after dipping them in the saline water) then soak your nose in the saline soak. It may pinch a little. In the first week, you might also notice some bleeding and if this goes on for more than 4 days consult your piercer. If you notice any green or yellow pus, your piercing may be infected and it'd be wise to see a doctor. During the healing, you might also experience what people call septum funk. It is a foul smell coming from your piercing and it is normal. However, if it is accompanied by pain and yellow pus or blood, your piercing might have an issue and you should have it checked. Keep your piercing clean and don't worry, no one else can smell the funk. Never touch your piercing with unwashed hands. Flipping the piercing You might want to flip the piercing for work or school, this can only work if you have a horseshoe type of jewellery. Basically, you pull your mouth skin down so the piercing is more visible and flip the balls up into your nose. This will get easier the older the piercing gets and the less swollen your nose is. Make sure there isn't a build-up of gunk or crusties around your piercing before flipping it. On the other hand, you can ask your piercer to flip it for you and let it heal while flipped. It is not advisable to constantly flip a new piercing as this could delay the healing process. Do not change the jewellery until it is completely healed to prevent the risk of infection or the hole closing up. Pick a side you want the ring to be on and stick to it.