A woman set herself and her two children on fire following a disagreement with her husband on New Year's day in Lugari sub-county, Kakamega. Her third child survived the tragedy after jumping out of the house through a window. The incident happened at Sirende village in Lugari constituency on Saturday evening. Hellen Vuyanzi, 35 reportedly picked a quarrel with her husband and they were counselled by police officers led by Lugari subcounty commander Bernard Ngungu. She returned home but the husband did not, to avoid further friction. Vuyanzi had accused her husband of cheating after she learnt he was dating another woman, the police boss said. Ngungu said the woman could have bought petrol and hid it in the house before picking the quarrel with her husband. A neighbor who declined to be named told the Star that the couple has had unending feuds after the woman started suspecting her husband. "They have been quarreling over alleged infidelity but we did not expect it to end like this," he said. Vuyanzi had been married for 12 years and the couple had three children aged 11, 4 and 2 years. Stephens Okila, the deceased’s brother-in-law, said he was away from home when his brother called him and informed him that he had been told that his house was on fire. “We rushed there and confirmed it was true. Unfortunately, his wife and two children aged 4 and 2 died inside the house. Their eldest son managed to escape through a window," Okila said. Okila said he was not aware of any conflict between husband and wife.  "I would tell if there was a problem between them because I am close to the family." Andrew Otieno, said they suspect his sister-in-law could have given the children sleeping pills before setting the house on fire. "The elder son woke up from sleep and made frantic efforts to get out of the burning house before he alerted villagers about the incident," Otieno said. Vuyanzi and the two children were already dead by the time neighbours put out the fire. Otieno claimed Vuyanzi could have used cooking gas and a mattress to light the fire. Ngungu said investigations have been launched into the death of the woman and her children.