Ulinzi Starlets' charges have been asked to shoulder attacking responsibility to plug into the gap left by Neddy Atieno and Lucy Mukhwana when they face Trans-Nzoia Falcons on Sunday. The Soldiers have been inconsistent this campaign, suffering two draws and a loss in six matches. They sit fourth on the standings in the Kenya Women's Premier League with 11 points. Ulinzi's attack has come under scrutiny in recent matches because of their failure to convert their chances. Atieno and Mukhwana were instrumental as Ulinzi won the FKF Women's Cup as well as the Super Cup but are unavailable for different reasons. "It's evident the team is missing the aforementioned players but that shouldn't be an excuse. We have to find solutions with the players we have. There's an improvement because we have two wins in the past three matches and our priority remains top three," said Ulinzi coach Joseph Mwanza. "Trans-Nzoia are third for a reason and we can't afford to underrate them. We have enough quality to gain maximum points," he added. Leaders Vihiga Queens aim to bounce back to winning ways as they entertain Zetech Sparks at Gems Cambridge. Vihiga's five-match winning streak ended last weekend in their 0-0 drab draw with second-placed Gaspo Women. Forwards Lorna Nyarinda and Topista Situma are in contention to replace Jentrix Shikangwa. The 20-year old Shikangwa joined Fatih Karagumruk, who plays in the Turkish top division. "We have to be cautious because Zetech is a tactical team capable of punishing any opposition in this league," Boniface Nyamunyamu, the Vihiga coach said. Defending Champions Thika Queens who are placed sixth have a date with winless Kangemi Ladies. Thika head into the encounter on the back of 1-0 loss against Ulinzi last weekend. A win for Thika will propel them to third should Falcons, Ulinzi and Wadadia all lose. Free-scoring Gaspo lock horns with Wadadia at Absa Sports Club. Bunyore Starlets on the other hand, will settle scores with Kayole at Mumboha grounds. Nakuru City Queens who have only won once and are 11th on the 12-team league raffle feathers with Kisumu All Starlets.