A 20-year-old student at Kirinyaga University lost his life after falling from the third floor of an apartment in Lantana Apartments, Kiambu county. Taylon Mbuthia, a second-year student at the Kirinyaga based university tumbled on the ground floor and died on the spot, after binge drinking with his girlfriend and her other boyfriend. DCI Director George Kinoti said before meeting his death, Mbuthia had on Sunday visited his girlfriend Margaret Nyambura. Nyambura was a first-year student at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. "They partied and had a good time in the house on Sunday through Monday, together with Margaret’s roommate only identified as Shantel and another man identified as Joe Momanyi," Kinoti said. But on Monday, the trio were joined by a fourth-year student at JKUAT Brian Andaki, who had come to pick the same girl whom the deceased had gone to see. "When Andaki inquired who the deceased was, Margaret introduced him as her cousin, who had brought greetings from home,' Kinoti said. Kinoti said the five adults continued partying until late Monday night. "When hunger pangs hit them, they decided to go look for food outside. Shantel who was already intoxicated and could barely move was left sleeping," he said. They found the nearby eatery already closed and decided to continue partying at a nearby joint. "At around 1 am, the four staggered back to Margaret’s bedsitter. However, as they scaled the flight of stairs, an argument ensued between Andaki and the deceased, after the former realized that the latter wasn’t Margaret’s cousin after all," he said. The two are believed to have fought at Margaret’s door before the deceased landed on the ground floor under mysterious circumstances. The apartment’s caretaker Dan Guchu told detectives that he was woken up by a loud thud before he rushed outside only to find the deceased’s body sprawled on the ground floor. "He immediately alerted detectives based at DCI Juja, who rushed to the scene and found the deceased’s body bearing multiple fractures, with blood oozing from his mouth and nose," he said. Kinoti said Investigations into the death of the University student have since been launched. Margaret Nyambura, Brian Andaki and Joe Momanyi remain in custody as the main suspects.