The Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji now wants Kitutu Chache Mp Richard Onyoka probed over alleged incitement claims. Haji on Monday wrote a letter to the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai asking him to launch an investigation into the Mp's comments and submit file within seven days. In a letter to IG Mutyambai, DPP said; " Reference is made to a video clip circulating on social media platforms in which Hon Richard Onyoka, MP for Kitutu Chache constituency is addressing a gathering in Kisii County. The alleged remarks captured in the video clip may be contrary to Articles 33(2) of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which provides inter alia " The right to freedom of expression does not extend to - (a) propaganda for war; (b) incitement to violence; (c) hate speech; or advocacy of hatred" and section 62 of the National Cohesion and Integration Act, No.12 of 2008". This comes barely hours after Meru Senator Mithika Linturi was arrested for using coded language that is said to be hate speech. Uasin Gishu county commander Ayub Gitonga confirmed the arrest and says he is being taken to Nakuru to record a statement and possible production in court Monday. Police plan to argue he is a threat to security and needs to be detained for further processing. He has since apologized for his remarks. He said his ‘madoadoa” remarks were not meant to incite or propagate hate speech. “Today, while addressing the UDA rally at Eldoret, I expressed myself using words which in certain context, have acquired sinister political overtones and come to be associated with incitement and hate speech,” said the Senator. “At that moment, I was vigorously urging our supporters to offer full support to UDA candidates in this year's election, and was oblivious of the possibility that my choice of words might assume negative meaning." Deputy President William Ruto on Monday asked state security agencies to impartially deal with all hate-mongers across the political divide. “For the avoidance of doubt the agencies charged with security and ensuring we have a peaceful election must apply the law in a manner that does not create two sets of laws for two sets of groups,” Ruto said at the Bomet Green Stadium. He went on: “We want every inciter in Kenya, whether they belong to UDA or the other side, we want the law to apply equally so that we can secure our nation.”