Mandera leaders and residents have been urged to be anti-FGM ambassadors to eradicate the vice by the end of this year. Anti-FGM coordinator Mandera chapter Izaac Mohammed said there is no goodwill from leaders, parents and major stakeholders in completely ending the vice. Mohamed said if parents are not fully committed, then the campaign will never succeed. She spoke on Saturday during the anti-FGM function attended by women and youth. The FGM Act of 2011 prohibits the practice to safeguard against violation of a person’s mental or physical integrity and for connected purposes. Through a presidential directive, all societies that practice the vice have been advised to end it by end of this year. Mohamed said all stakeholders must remain committed and true to the course. She said if parents don’t publicly denounce the practice, the directive will not be achieved. Statistics show that 9.5 million girls below 18 years are cut every year. The Somali community leads at 98 per cent, followed by the Samburu at 94 per cent. Ibrahim Mohammed an anti-FGM champion urged all religions to unite against the practice. He termed the vice as barbaric, savage and bypassed by time. Ibrahim said the practice brings effects and complications during giving birth. Youths urged political and administrative leaders to unite to end the vice. Speaking in Mandera town last week, Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha said the government has already profiled the circumcisers and identified them. Kyatha urged them to surrender their tools of the trade before action is taken. He said parents who subject their children to FGM should be arrested and charged. Kyatha urged local administrators to be more proactive in ending FGM. “I have said this in previous meetings with you, the local administrators. You are the government’s eye on the ground,” he said. “For us to end this retrogressive practice, you must be at the forefront to ensuring circumcisers and the parents carrying out the exercise are  arrested and taken to court.” Last month, the government raised concerns over an increase in cases of female genital mutilation in the county. During a meeting organised by the Anti-FGM board, it was revealed that 110 girls under 18 years have undergone the cut since June. The administrator said the government aims to eliminate FGM by 2022 and this calls for the full support and cooperation of everybody. Edited by Kiilu Damaris