Hit Squad pugilists are set to report to camp at the end of the month ahead of the forthcoming international events, head coach Benjamin Musa has revealed. Musa said it would be unnecessary to select players based on the outcome of the events lined up in the newly released Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) calendar, given the team is already pressed for time. The local boxing governing body had earlier in the year hinted at the possibility of using the events to identify squad members after several household names gave the second edition of the inaugural President Jamal Boxing Championships a wide berth. The championships also served as the national trials. “We shall name a provisional squad to report for training at the end of the month. We intend to include all those who emerged champions at the two editions of President Jamal Cup held in November and December,” said Musa. “We will also allow those we feel have the potential to make the country proud. Generally, the provisional squad will comprise 20 men and at least 10 women,” he added. However, Musa was categorical the coaching unit would take the pugilists through a rigorous selection process that includes speed and endurance tests. “Felling your opponent in the ring or emerging the best in the sparring sessions will not guarantee anyone a slot in the final team. We want to ensure we get the best people to represent our country at the forthcoming events. BFK believes in quality representation,” said Juma. Kenya will look to redeem their battered image at the Africa Zone 3 Boxing championships set for March in Tanzania ahead of the Africa Boxing Championships in Cameroon between March and April. The women's team will then travel to Istanbul in Turkey for the IBA Women World Boxing Championships that will run between May 6 and 21`. Meanwhile, Musa has expressed mixed feelings concerning recent statements made by seasoned Hit Squad members Nick Okoth and Elly Ajowi who said they wished to retire after gracing the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in July. “I believe their decisions are informed by the IBA rules that require amateur boxers to retire at 40. However, I don't necessarily support their views that they would like to create room for budding boxers. “Anyone eager to join the national team must be ready and willing to fight for the slot and not wait to be given on a silver platter,” said Musa.