More than 2,000 young people have graduated after receiving  free training on technical courses in Murang’a. The training undertaken in partnership with Michuki Technical Training Institute is facilitated by the County Woman Representative Sabina Chege. Chege officiated at a graduation ceremony of 350 students at the institution on Saturday. The training is held during holidays and last at least one month before certificates are issued The students are drawn from poor families, mostly  youths who stay at home after KCSE since their parents are unable to raise the funds needed to enrol them in tertiary institutions. “We also get students who dropped out of school because our aim is to get them from the villages and give them skills to become independent,” he said. Those who excel in the short training are given a sponsorship to continue studying at the same facility. Chege said the training provides opportunity for families to be informed about the funds set aside by the government for students who enroll in technical institutions. “If you enrol and apply for Higher Education Loans Board funds, you can get school fees and some pocket money that amounts to about Sh56,000 per student,” she said. Some of the trainees, especially plumbers and those who undertake beauty courses, are able to employ themselves after the training. Chege expressed concerns that a big number of the young people have lost hope and need to be encouraged and have hope revived. She introduced a company known as Kazi Majuu that does recruitments for jobs abroad and is currently contracted by Qatar to source for 10,000 plumbers. “I am hoping that some of these graduands will benefit from the plumbing opportunities,” she said. Chege, who is said to be vying for the governor's seat. said there is a need to create creation of opportunities to provide jobs for youths. She said the county has a wealth of knowledge among its entrepreneurial residents that it has been unable to take full advantage of. “We must embrace our professionals. For the last 10 years, we have not had a single professionals’ meeting in the county yet they have a lot of knowledge that can help change it for the better,” she said. She said she will be encouraging investors to invest in the county and create industries that make it unnecessary for local youths to travel to urban areas in search of jobs. Gladys Wanga, Homa Bay woman representative who also attended the graduation, said the 350 families had been impacted positively by the training as the training taught their children how to fend for themselves, She said the Government’s Big Four agenda, especially manufacturing and housing, cannot be implemented without electricians, plumbers and other technical workers needed. “Chege has given them the skills to participate in the implementation of the Big Four agenda and she has partnered with a local institution which helps build and empower it. Murang’a people have an asset in Chege,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)