Hot dogs are a universal favourite snack that can be consumed at any time of the day on their own or with accompaniments. They're easy and fun to prepare with origins dating from Germany. A hot dog is a meal that consists of a grilled or steamed sausage served in the slit of a partially sliced bun, topped with condiments of choice. The term hot dog can also refer to the sausage itself. The sausage used is a wiener or a frankfurter. The names of these sausages also commonly refer to their assembled dish. Some people consider hot dogs to be sandwiches. This meal can be had as breakfast, lunch or just a snack. Either way, it's a balanced meal packed with nutrients and really filling. Ingredients. For the sandwich For the vegetables Method For the sandwich Wash and slice your onion into semi circles then set them aside. Place a frying pan over medium heat and add butter to it, once its melted add your onions and sprinkled salt to taste. Allow them to cook and brown while gently stirring them. Once caramelized, turn off heat and set them aside. In another pan, fry the beef sienna until ensuring all sides are well cooked. Slice the bread buns in half and place them (the inside soft part facing down) on the side of the cooking pan and allow them to grill. Take the bread out and apply mayo on the grilled sides, add the caramelized onions, place the cooked Vienna and top with some more onions. Sprinkle mustard and ketchup on top then cover it with the other bun. For the sauteed vegetables Wash and slice all your vegetables into desired size. In a cooking pan over medium heat, add olive oil and allow it to heat then proceed to add the onions first. Allow them to brown then add the capsicums and bell pepper, occasionally stirring them. Add the chopped garlic, salt, spices and a little water to the meal. Let them cooked for a while then turn off heat. (The vegetables shouldn't lose their crunchiness) Slice the bun in half and serve it with your sauteed vegetables. Note:You can choose to add a boiled egg on the side for extra flavour and added proteins for a fuller meal. Enjoy.