More than 29 OCPDs across the country have been transferred in a reshuffle approved on Thursday by the national police service board. Amongst those who were affected by the transfers included Kajiado North OCPD Manyasi who has been moved to Cheptais in the same capacity. Rashid Ali who until the changes was the OCPD in Masinga has been transferred to Samburu central while Stephen Odiwuor who was the OCPD Mwea West heads to Moiben. Moses Odoyo was moved from Kenya police operations at the police headquarters to Samburu central as the new OCPD while Eric Yego was moved as the OCPD of Wajir South to Narok West in a similar position. Alex Rotich moves from Samburu Central as OCPD to operations at the police headquarters in Nairobi while Lucy Kananu who before the changes was OCPD of Eldoret East Ainabkoi was transferred to Lari . Keiyo South OCPD Charles Laboso has been transferred to Bumula while David Nyabuto is the new OCPD of Kisumu west having moved from Nandi East. Francis Gachoki who was the OCPD in Baringo Central is going to Mbalambala while long-serving Nyando OCPD Leonard Matete has been transferred to Eldoret East Ainabkoi in the same capacity. OCPD Naivasha Samuel Waweru was moved to Mwea West in a similar position while John Onditi who was the OCPD in Gilgil heads to Kiminini. The new OCPD of Nambale is Patricia Nasio who until the transfer was the Subukia OCPD while Joakim Mogeni has been transferred from Turkana north to Kajiado North. David Mburukua moves from Turkana central to Starehe central while Stella Cherono who was the sub-county Police commander in Nyatike is the new OCPD of Kerio South. Adams Bungei from Starehe central is heading to Turkana central as the incoming OCPD while Reuben Muteti who was the OCPD in Kajiado south is the new OCPD Nandi north. Thomas Moturi Ototo was transferred from Matete as OCPD to Turkana north in the same position while Agnes Amajong heads to Kericho as the deputy county police commander. Kajiado south has Shadrach Kiprop as the new OCPD. He was moved from Turkana South while Francis Kipkoech who was OCPD in Kiminini is the incoming OCPD of Gilgil. Also affected by the changes is Grace Mwanja Thuo who has been transferred from Moiben to Nyando as OCPD. Walter Abondo moves from Nambale where he was OCPD to Nandi East while Christine Muhalia who was the OCPD of Narok West is the new Baringo Central OCPD. Sarah Chumo was moved from Rachuonyo North to Subukia while Harriet Kinya who until the transfer was OCPD in Kitui heads to Naivasha in a similar capacity. Also affected is Jamleck Naamiya who was transferred from Nandi north as OCPD to police headquarters - inspection directorate. The changes communicated to the deputy inspector general of police Edward Mbugua take effect immediately.