Deputy President William Ruto has been accused of doublespeak over the involvement of senior civil servants in political campaigns. Ruto and his allies have been calling out Cabinet Secretaries for campaigning for ODM leader Raila Odinga but some senior government officials are now drumming up support for his candidature. Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang'i (Interior), Eugene Wamalwa (Defence), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Sicily Kariuki (Water) and Peter Munya (Agriculture) are among senior officials who have declared their support for Raila. Joining the list of leaders supporting Ruto's candidature is Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba (Foreign Affairs). His Labour counterpart Patrick ole Ntutu has been vigorously rooting for a Ruto presidency. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito said Ruto and his allies should not raise any objections to senior civil servants campaigning for Raila. “Ruto has been campaigning throughout yet he is the second in command. He has now been joined by government officials who have been in politics before. Why did he complain when some CSs declared their support for Raila?” Kizito asked. He said the top senior government officials are simply taking the direction of their boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta. “They have to go out there and tear apart this bottom up approach which some people want to make it look like a government plan,” he said. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said it is regrettable that some leaders call out competitors over issues that they too engage in. “Why say something is wrong and then do that same thing you are accusing your opponents of doing?” Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, a close ally of Ruto, defended Ababu's decision to campaign for the DP saying he does not hold a substantive office. “We are not involved in double speak. Some CSs are heading critical ministries and they are using their offices to frustrate us,” he said. Cherargei said it was wrong for CSs to go out of their way to please the President and his handshake partner, Raila. “They think that by pleasing the two, they will be in the next government. I want to assure them that they will be on the fringes after August polls,” he said. On January 3, Ababu said Busia has been supporting ODM for many years but ended up with wrong leaders. “That is why Busia has lagged in terms of development. It is now time to switch our loyalty to DP Ruto and the UDA party,” he said. The former Budalangi MP, who has accompanied the Ruto in campaigns in Busia, said the Deputy President is the right candidate to succeed Uhuru. He said Ruto is best suited to complete Jubilee government projects having been part of Uhuru's administration since the formalisation stage. Ababu said a team of UDA officials has been appointed to oversee Ruto's campaigns in Bundalangi and the surrounding areas. He said he is not in a position to support storytellers since Kenya needs action-oriented leaders. Ntutu said Ruto supporters should not be silenced or warned against drumming up support for the Deputy President. He wants to run for Narok Governor on an UDA ticket. On December 19, Garissa Township MP Aden Duale asked Matiang'i not to deny civil servants their constitutional rights of association and allow them to support a candidate of their choice. Matiang’i has openly declared support for Raila saying the majority of Kenyans are with the President and ODM leader. The CS has said he does not need anyone's permission to support Raila's presidential bid. Edited by Kiilu Damaris