Don't let the simplicity of this meal fool you, you can achieve so much with this meal and you get to choose the level of crunchiness you want. It's perfect and easy to prepare a meal that tastes as good as it looks. The trick to achieving perfect crispiness lies not only in the oil you use but in the coating and the temperature you use to fry the meal. Note: Use oils with high smoking points such as a coin or canola oil avoid olive oil or butter since they'll burn at the temperatures required for frying. Ingredients Method In one bowl, add the flour, pepper, and turmeric then whisk them nicely. In another bowl, add the cup of milk, salt and break two eggs in it then whisk till well blended. Rub salt evenly into your fillets, place in a microwave-friendly plate then microwave for 5-7 minutes, allowing them to heat well. Allow to cool, then roll your fillets in the bowl with the egg mixture then transfer to the bowl with the flour ensuring both sides are well coated then set the pieces aside. Note: You can add bread crumbs to the flour for coating for an extra crunch of crispiness. (Gently pat the crumbs to help them adhere.) The coating helps the fillets not soak up too much oil and avoid flaking, ensuring it stays in one piece. Add canola oil to your pan then heat it over medium. Once the oil is hot, add your coated fillets into the pan. Allow them to brown then change sides while regulating the heat so that the outside doesn't burn while the inside isn't well cooked. You can use a knife to check if your fish is well done just like you do with cakes. Note: never cover the fish while it's in the pan as you'll end up steaming it and this might lead to the coating falling off, your fillet flaking and getting greasy. Once ready take them out of the pan and set them on a plate lined with kitchen towels to absorb any excess oil. I decided to add a side of vegetable stew, to go with the fillets, you can have them with your preferred meal or dig into the crunchiness without accompaniments. Garnish with broccoli and cream sour sauce and enjoy.