Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure maize farmers receive fertiliser and seeds at affordable prices ahead of the planting season. The senator who spoke in Mulachi village, in Webuye East constituency said most farmers have decried the high cost of fertiliser. "Kenyan maize farmers especially from the Western region that is the country's food breadbasket from Kapenguria, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Nandi, Uasin Gishu need fertiliser to ensure good yields," he said. Wetang’ula said the price of fertilizer has skyrocketed globally due to the effects of Covid-19 pandemic, adding that the government should intervene to ensure the farmers are assisted. "This is a season where our farmers have began to prepare their farms to plant maize and they need seeds and fertilizer at a good price for good yields," he said. Wetang’ula said last year, DAP fertilizer was being sold at Sh3,100 however this year it is being sold at Sh5,600. The senator said the price will not only be a big challenge to the farmer but also to the country at large as far as food security issues are concerned. "I'm calling upon our Agriculture CS Peter Munya to ensure the subsidised fertilizer that farmers are supposed to get in January and February by liaising with county governments is available to farmers," he said. Wetang'ula said the fertilizer price that the Senate recommended was Sh2,500 per bag. He said the price would allow famers get enough yields for the country and get profits for their farm products. The senator also urged residents of western region counties to take advantage of the second and final mass voter registration to register as voters. "I am calling upon our people who have identity cards and have not registered as voters to please do so since this is the final exercise before the August general election," he said. The senator said before next elections, Bungoma leaders will ensure Webuye East that has only three wards of Mihuu, Maraka and Ndivisi, gets an additional two for easy representation. The senator also asked Chetambe residents not to be worried over the Chetambe hills eviction as the Senate was also working on the matter. "When Senate resumes next month, the Lands committee will visit this place and have a session with residents on how to solve the matter amicably," he said.    -Edited by SKanyara