The Kenya Ports Authority has acquired a new  Sh1.9 billion tugboat to boost efficiency at the crucial marine operations The RAstar 4200 built in Turkey was received in Mombasa on Monday. The high-performance Azimuth Stern Driven tug christened Mwokozi 2 joins KPA fleet of tugboats to primarily offer salvage and harbour operations as well as complement other marine crafts crucial for towing services at the port. Equipped with excellent manoeuvrability and packing a hefty 120 tonnes of bollard pull, the vessel with a length overall of 42 metres and maximum draft of 7.2 metres will deliver enhanced towing and ship handling services for vessels stuck at sea/ or with mechanical problems. Mwokozi 2 was given a water canon salute by a flotilla of tugs and pilot cutters depicting her maiden voyage to the port of Mombasa. The vessel has been constructed and equipped according to Safety Of Life At Sea requirements. In 2018, KPA acquired a new Sh1.1 billion modern tugboat to boost efficiency at the crucial marine operations. The 75 Bollard Pull tugboat was then the first of its kind in East and Central Africa and will be instrumental in undertaking marine operations including berthing and un-berthing of ships. She becomes the largest tug in a fleet of five. Christened Eugene, Azimuth Stern Driven tug arrived at the Port of Mombasa after a 26-day's journey from the Cheoy Lee Shipbuilders in China. The vessel is named after Capt Eugene Okoth who passed on while performing pilotage duties on board an inbound vessel (car carrier) on a 3rd Shift in April 2016. The tug is fitted with the most advanced and powerful caterpillar "E" series engines and has a length overall of 32 meters compared to the other four "D" series ASD tugboats which have a length overall of 30 meters and a Bollard Pull of 58. The acquisition of this tug now guarantees two to three simultaneous vessel movement at any given time. It then translated to optimal availability of four at all times as compared to current situation of three whenever one tug is out of service due to planned maintenance or breakdown. Currently,  90 per cent of vessels calling at port of Mombasa are post Panamax, which require at least two tugs for berthing and unberthing operations. The tugboat will also effectively provide fire suppression at sea, maritime pollution control and berthing. Additionally, it will have the capability to execute tug services within and outside the harbour.    -Edited by SKanyara