At least 1,700 identification cards lie uncollected in Busia even as the county continues to record low turnout in voter registration. Those listing in the voters roll must have an ID card. Many have complained the government is yet to process their applications to be issued with IDs. However, officials say 1,726 new ID cards are yet to be collected by applicants in Busia. Most of them belong to first time applicants, majority of whom are youths. Butula subcounty has the highest number of uncollected national identity cards. The subcounty with a population of 140,334, going by the Kenya Population and Housing Census Report 2019, until Wednesday, had 424 uncollected IDs belonging to first time applicants. The subcounty is followed by Teso South which by close of business on Wednesday had 381 uncollected IDs. The others are Busia with 265, Nambale has 223 while Bunyala and Samia have 199 and 192 respectively. Teso North has the least number at 42. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is currently carrying out voter registration with the primary target being Kenyans who are receiving national identity cards for the first time. IEBC targets to list approximately 4.5 million new voters in the country. The second phase of voter listing began on January 17 and will end on February 6. Busia county registrar Aileen Mandi appealed to the owners of the documents to collect them. “We are asking those who may have applied for their IDs and have not collected them to come and pick them at our offices,” Mandi said. She said her office is also seeking help from local administrators to reach out to the owners of the documents to facilitate their delivery. “We want to extend our request to our clients who appeared in our offices and applied for their IDs and have not been able to collect them. We have made the process simple and have also tried to hasten the process by seeking assistance from other quotas and these are the people who we work with within our offices,” she said. “We have sought the assistance of assistant chiefs and other area administrators so that they can help us in locating these people and give them their ID cards. This is just to hasten the process and make it easy for the clients to receive their IDs.” Majority of the uncollected IDs for first time applicants belong to residents who applied for the documents between November 1 and January 26 when the county implemented the Rapid Results Initiative. “We have been working to ensure people in the county are registered, especially those registering for the first time,” Mandi said. Politicians in the county have been encouraging residents who had applied for the document to visit offices of local administrators to pick the cards. When the IEBC rolled out the first phase of voter registration, Woman Rep Florence Mutua while paying a courtesy call to the county IEBC head Fredrick Apopa said voting is a right for Kenyans above the age of 18 and must be taken seriously. She asked residents who are of age to make sure they acquire ID cards to enable them take part in the August 9 General Election. Other leaders in the county who have been calling on residents to get IDs include Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and MP Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Geoffrey Omuse (Teso South) and Nambale’s John Bunyasi. Geoffrey Odanga (Matayos), Joseph Oyula (Butula) Wilberforce Mudenyo (Funyula) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalangi) who have also been rallying residents apply for and collect ID cards ahead of August. Mandi said the RRI initiative was a success because many residents applied for the document. “At the moment I would report that the Rapid Results Initiative yielded fruit. We captured most of the residents in Busia especially those who had wanted to register for the first time.” She said her office has also been registering people who lost their ID cards, those with mutilated cards as well as residents who had wanted to correct their particulars including area of residence and names. Mandi said foreigners married to Kenyans should visit registration centres from where they will be guided on the ID application procedure. -Edited by SKanyara