The Sports Committee on Gender Welfare and Equity has called on the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions to crack the whip on perpetrators of Gender-Based Violence. The Committee, led by two-time world marathon champion Catherine Ndereba, wants the Noordin Hajj-led Office to expedite investigations and prosecution of all persons accused of GBV against female athletes. The Committee also wants Hajj to collect data on cases involving offenders in the sports industry and give special attention to GBV. Ndereba noted that the data will highlight the flow of cases, from investigations, preferring of charges to their conclusions. Ndereba added that prosecution and conviction of perpetrators will ensure criminals within the sports system are held culpable. The Senior Prisons officer said it is high time violence against athletes is stopped, once and for all. “Silence no more. We do not want to see any more gender-based deaths. We must come together and work together and ensure that the vice is a thing of the past,” she said. The Committee's recommendations focused on a myriad of issues affecting the industry with the murder of 2015 World Cross Country champions Agnes Tirop, the latest such incident. Tirop was found stabbed to death, allegedly by her husband, in her home in Iten on October 13. The recommendations make up a report launched during the opening of “The Agnes Tirop Conference” in Diani, Kwale County. The report reveals that 60 percent of female athletes have faced GBV with 57 percent adding that they have experienced the same more than 10 times. DPP Hajj candidly admitted that the main challenge they face is the lack of information on such offences as victims mostly choose to remain silent. Hajj said with a lack of evidence, the perpetrators will walk scot-free. “We can only prosecute cases which have been reported. With no sufficient evidence, the cases will fall,” he said. Hajj further noted there was need for the stakeholders to train upcoming athletes in identifying signs of GBV. The Report also recommends that the Ministry of Sports undertake an immediate review of the Kenya National Sports Policy 2005 (Session Paper  No. 03 of 2005) and the Sports Act 2013 to formulate and implement a National Gender Welfare in Sports Policy and review the existing legal framework. The Report also wants the Ministry to create an integrated Sports Management System that will enable it to include gender concerns within the sports industry to enable it to address issues raised by the stakeholders. Ndereba's team also wants the Ministry of Interior and  Coordination of the National Government and the National Police Service to provide security to the victims, survivors and individuals who report sexual and GBV cases immediately after receiving such information. The Committee also wants the Attorney and General to assist in drafting, approving of relevant Regulations of the Sports Act 2013 and provide affirming action steps to be taken. Ndereba Reports also calls on the media to get involved and create awareness about sexual and GBV affecting women and children in sports .