Deputy President William Ruto on Monday apologized over the ‘madoadoa’ utterances that were made on Saturday in Eldoret by Meru Senator Mithika Linturi. While addressing his supporters in Bomet County on Monday during his rally, Ruto said that the UDA party does not believe in regional or ethnic-based politics. He said the UDA party subscribes to politics that unite all Kenyans. “Senator Linturi made a statement that he has regretted. A statement that had inappropriate language. He has withdrawn the statement and unconditionally apologized to the people of Kenya,” Ruto said. He continued that: “Going forward, and I want to tell members of my team, the hustler nation, that all of us must mind our language and be careful of what we say so that we can unite this country,” Ruto said. Reacting to the latest development even as the police continue to hold Linturi, lawyer Miguna Miguna said that the senator’s “madoadoa" comments did not constitute a crime. Miguna added that Linturi’s persecution is political and that there is absolutely no reason why Ruto apologized. “There is absolutely no reason why William Ruto has apologized except that he values power above principle,” Miguna tweeted on Monday. The lawyer further urged Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga and their supporters to instead fight for electoral justice and ensure that the 2022 elections are free, fair, credible, and verifiable. Linturi’s statement continues to elicit mixed reactions among Kenyans. The criticism it received from a section of Kenyans forced the UDA party to apologise on Monday even as it called for equal application of the law. In a statement on Monday, the party distanced itself from any interpretation of the remarks that link them to the exclusion, or any form of negativity. “Notwithstanding the way the term “Madoadoa” was deployed or the figurative and objective political intention thereof, the UDA Party is concerned that potent and emergent misinterpretation of the same might evoke negativity particularly given the electoral violence of yesteryears, and therefore regrets and apologizes for the turn of the event following those political remarks by Hon Linturi,” party secretary-general Veronica Maina said. -Edited by B. Marita