Controversial businessman-cum-preacher David Kariuki Ngari alias Gakuyo has publicly apologised over his disparaging remarks directed at nominated MCA Emma Wanjiku and arch rival Alice Ng’ang’a. The utterances made by the bishop on January 7, 2021 sparked protests in Thika town on Tuesday. The protests were led by MPs Gathoni Muchomba (Kiambu), Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), Rahab Mukami (Nyeri) and former Ruiru MP Esther Gathogo. The bishop, who declared an interest for the Thika seat, during an event in Thika town last Friday claimed that Wanjiku was an outsider who "stole" the seat from natives. Gakuyo also hurled epithets at the nominated ward rep while castigating her for dressing inappropriately in public. The bishop was on Wednesday summoned by Thika West DCI to record a statement. This is after the female MPs petitioned the authorities to probe the matter and apprehend the cleric. They also gave the cleric a five-day ultimatum to make a public apology. “We are giving the bishop five days to make a thoughtful, remorseful and public apology. We are not going to allow male politicians to look down on us,” Wamuchomba said during the protests. Gakuyo, after recording the statement, addressed residents at Thika stadium where he maintained that he was not addressing all women but the MCA for dressing indecently. He said that it was not his wish to hurt anyone but he was just playing his role as a bishop to advise the nominated ward rep on decent dressing while in public. “I am sorry to anybody who was hurt by my utterances. I do not wish to hurt anyone,” Gakuyo said. He also retracted his statement that Thika people should only vote for natives, saying that the constituency is cosmopolitan and that anyone can vie for any seat. Earlier, Thika subcounty police commander Daniel Kinyua had told journalists that the matter was still under investigations. “The matter is being handled by the DCI Thika West and currently we cannot tell whether the Bishop will be taken to court or not. We are yet to prefer charges but investigations will determine otherwise once complete,” Kinyua said. The police boss pleaded with politicians in the region to desist from engaging in confrontational politics or using abusive language that can cause incitement.