Nyamira ODM governor hopeful James Kemoni is rooting for free, fair and democratic party nominations ahead of the August 9 General Election. He said there were early signs that the exercise may lack credibility following the conduct of some of the party officials who are in the race for the seat. "I have noted with concern that these same people are not comfortable with the idea of nominations and want direct tickets. I believe that this is not going to happen as ODM is a party that is built on strong democratic credentials,” Kemoni said. He asked party officials to ensure members are given a chance to exercise their democratic rights so that the party can front a popular candidate. “Being a party official should not be misconstrued to mean one is popular. This is the reason some of us are vigorously pushing for proper nominations. Nominations often provide the party with the needed opportunity to redeem itself,” Kemoni said. He spoke to journalists after a meet-the-people tour in Kijauri, Borabu, in Nyamira county. Kemoni said Nyamira needs leaders who are focused on changing the livelihoods of the common mwananchi. “Nyamira is crying for a leadership that can scale up services and leverage the common man to move forward, improve his welfare, and not one where graft flourishes,” he told a delegation that visited him. He told the electorate to look beyond local politicians, some of whom have lost steam if they want an effective leader to manage their resources and bring about the change they want. Kemoni will face, among others, incumbent Governor Amos Nyaribo, Timothy Bosire, Joseph Kiangoi, Walter Nyambati and Mwancha Okioma in the race for the county top seat. Nyaribo will be defending his seat on an ANC party ticket. Late last year, the governor told off his critics whom he said think they will defeat him by tainting his name. Nyaribo told his critics to respect his office and concentrate on working for the electorate since they are elected leaders. “We are all leaders and we need to conduct ourselves in a respectful manner. If it is politics, let us undertake it as civilised people,” Nyaribo said. Edited by A.N