Deputy President William Ruto allies have said ODM leader Raila Odinga represents the past. The leaders said Ruto stands for the future urging the Rift region to free the DP so that he seeks votes elsewhere. Allies of the DP Saturday made the passionate plea to residents of Rift Valley to back Ruto and set him free to look for votes outside the region. MPs allied to UDA termed opposition chief Raila Odinga as unfit to lead the country because he represents the past. They spoke at Ruto's mega rally in Eldoret. Nyali MP Ali Mohammed led the locals in a public oath committing to back Ruto in the August polls. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Ruto was the choice of Mt Kenya region and no one else would get backing in the region. MP Sylvanus Osoro said the Kisii region would not support opposition chief Raila Odinga. "We are happy that Friday they did a birthday and retirement party which was attended by President Kenyatta," said Osoro. He claimed Interior CS Fred Matiangi was being used to undermine Ruto yet he was unelectable to any position. John Waluke who is Sirisia MP said the Western region would also back DP Ruto. Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka said the Kamba community would not also be left behind and would back Ruto. "Ruto is the people's project and not like the other one who is a government project," said Munyaka. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said Kenyans were supportive of Ruto and no efforts would break the support he enjoys countrywide. Governor aspirant for Mombasa Hassan Omar said the coast region was supportive of DP Ruto because he enjoys countrywide support. Nominated MP David Sankok claimed that Raila was not fit for the presidency because of his historical background in the country. Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wa Muchomba said President Uhuru Kenyatta himself had asked Kenyans to back Ruto for 10 years after his retirement. "As people from central we don't cheat and we will give the DP his ten years as president," said Wamuchomba. Dagoreti MP John Kiarie said all efforts to stop Ruto would fail and that Ruto would serve the country well as president. More than 70 MPs are attending the rally in Eldoret. Edited by D Tarus