People carrying blood disorder genes for diseases such as haemophilia and Sickle Cell are encouraged to intermarry with those without to reduce the chances passing the condition to their children. Haemophilia and Sickle Cell Disease are two haematological disorders that are overly inherited and afflict a large population of Kenyans with devastating outcomes. Health experts are now calling on early screening for such blood disorders to ensure the problems are picked early to reduce cases of mortality. “If you are a carrier of the gene, don’t marry someone with the same gene and that is why you should look for counsellors for genetics to assess you and explain to you to look for someone without the gene so that you don’t pass it to your child,” Dr Kibet Sikuku said. “As a country we have not started testing everyone because genetic testing is expensive and as a community we have not learned to come out and look for help in health facilities so that we can know our status,” Sikuku said. Of greater concern is that majority of Kenyans still associate the diseases with traditional beliefs such as witchcraft thus hindering access to care among those affected. Most people present at the health facility present late, some while more than seven years hence making the condition difficult to manage. “Most of our people say it is witchcraft but it is time for people to know these are diseases that if they get help they can live a good life.  This disease is higher the numbers captured in the system,” Bungoma county First Lady Carolyne Wangamati said. According to Wangamati, presenting early at the clinic will help reduce the burden of treatment should a patient present at advanced stage. Currently, there are two haemophilia comprehensive care centres in the country at KNH and MTRH and four other treatment centres in Murang’a, Kisii, the Coast Region and in Voi. Haemophilia is a bleeding disorder that has severe complications if unattended and inappropriately managed. It can lead to mortality due to uncontrolled bleeding. Majority of the patients are male due to the nature of inheritance. Data shows that with a prevalence of 1:10,000 in a population, Kenya should be having 5,000 patients but has only diagnosed 14 per cent of the population. Unfortunately, the Haemophilia Association of Kenya has registered 700 patients out of an anticipated number of 5,000. Similarly, it is estimated that more than 60,000 Kenyans have sickle cell disease. Unlike sickle cell, haemophilia disease is evenly distributed and all communities are equally affected. Patient care is mainly through infusion of factor concentrates (replacement of clotting factors). As a country, care is only available in 6 health facilities with diagnostic capacity in 2 national referral hospitals. This calls for more advocacy and intensive screening activities across all the counties. A majority of the patients are young with multiple deformities and complications from the disease. On Wednesday, the Kenya Haemophilia Association, in collaboration with Novo Nordisk Haemophilia Foundation, Novo Nordisk Foundation and Muhimbili National Hospital in Tanzania, launched a three-year project that will focus on supporting rapid access to care for people with Haemophilia, benefitting also people with Sickle Cell disease. “It is upon us as a community to continue advocating for this cause as there is still much work to be done,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. She added: “Currently, most of the patients are young and end up living with multiple deformities and complications as a result of the diseases. This clearly requires intensive screening activities across all the counties to ensure we can reduce this level of morbidity.” The Sh100 million project aims to upscale care through improved physical infrastructure, increased testing capacity in all the counties as well as national referral facilities, training for all health care workers across all cadres, advocacy programs and activities.