Nairobi Woman Representative wants opinion polls to decide the best candidate for Nairobi governor seat on the Azimio la Umoja ticket. This, she believes, will make it easy to pick the best candidate out of the many who are battling for the ticket. "I would suggest that we do a proper opinion poll and the best one wins the ticket under Azimio la Umoja," Passaris said. Kenya Chamber of Commerce president Richard Ngatia, business woman Agnes Kagure, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and Governor Anne Kananu have declared their interest in the gubernatorial seat. They have all rallied behind Raila Odinga's Azimio La Umoja Movement. Wanyonyi, who launched his candidature last month, has said he will vie on the ODM ticket. Kagure, who also launched her candidature early this month, is a Jubilee Party member as well as Governor Kananu. The other aspirants who are yet to launch their bids but have shown interest include Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja (Jubilee member but allied to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi), Makadara MP George Aladwa (ODM ) and former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru ( UDA and allied to Deputy President William Ruto). Passaris, however, backed Wanyonyi, urging Nairobi  residents  to vote for him. She described him as Nairobi's  most hardworking MP, who has delivered  and served his constituency for the last 15 years. “Disability is not inability. Among  all the MPs in Nairobi, I have  seen the work of Tim and  he is a hard worker  who has served Westlands well and wants to take his leadership higher and serve the residents of Nairobi,"  Passaris  said. The MP condemned tribal voting patterns, saying it was against what the handshake has promoted. She said the county's top seat does not belong to any tribe  but to the person Nairobi residents will elect. "Lakini sasa kuna wale wanasema hii kiti lazima ikae na Wakikuyu (There are those claiming Nairobi governor's seat must be held by the Kikuyu). For me that is tribalism  because it goes against what Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta  are promoting through Azimio la Umoja," she said. Most of the aspirants have already embarked on their campaigns. It is expected that in the coming days, the governor race will get intense with more players joining.