The 'Kenya Kwanza' brigade has continued with its onslaught attack on the State for supposedly imposing ODM leader Raila Odinga to form the next government. In a bare knuckle of words, the leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto, termed Raila as a terrible political conman who has sharpened his skills in ruining a stable government and thriving in political parties and as such would be detrimental to the flourishing of Kenya if given an opportunity to lead. He described Raila as a brutal, intolerant leader who is not development oriented. Ruto urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to allow Kenyans to decide the fate of their country by freely allowing them to elect their leader without suffering intimidation and coercion as the Constitution grants them the democratic right to do so. Speaking on Saturday, Ruto advised Uhuru to learn from his failed 2002 presidential bid in which he terribly vanquished after he was endorsed by the late former President Daniel Moi as the government's favourite candidate. "I have been your number one political friend and supporter for 22 years. You better understand the wrath the people streamed on you when a previous government tried to impose you to them. "Therefore, with all due respect, the Raila project that you are attempting to force on people will not work," Ruto said. He said a Raila's presidency is tantamount to a shattered nation as the latter has a dark history of frustrating the agendas of all the current and previous administrations. "You can not afford to experiment the future of this nation by marketing a Raila presidency. He is the very individual who has massively contributed to veering off your plans and visions during our second term by hijacking our four big agendas in which we are supposed to be fulfilling to the people. Spare us the destruction!" he said. As a result, the DP said Kenya stands to pay hefty price should Raila rise to the presidency. Speaking in Thiba grounds in Mwea, Kirinyaga county, the DP said if elected president, his government will inject Sh100 billion to revive the big four agenda. At the same time Ruto rallied on Kirinyaga residents to overwhelmingly elect all UDA flag bearers in the forthcoming elections. ANC's party leader Musalia Mudavadi urged Kenyans to overwhelmingly support the 'Kenya Kwanza' team to form the next government as currently the country is on its financial knees and thus can not afford to go for a re-run. He said their mission is to resuscitate the already ailing economy and rid off corruption and as such Kenyans should overwhelmingly stand with a team that is concerned about their welfare. "We need to get down to work soonest after elections while guided by our agenda to revive our broken economy and eject corruption that has been the greatest vice eating up this nation. In that regard, we can not afford to go for a re-run as Kenya is currently broke," he said. The ANC leader further noted that the movement would continue partnering with like minded partners who share in their visions. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula advised Uhuru to selfishly guard his legacy by retiring in peace and refrain from imposing 'unwanted' leaders to Kenyans. He said failure to adhere to the advise, he stands to ruin his reputation and go down in history as a tyrannical leader. "As a retiring president, Uhuru should be utilizing his last phase in the presidency to bid goodbye to the African Union, East Africa Community and other forums in which he holds leadership positions, as opposed to associating himself with the 2022 politics," Wetangula said. The Bungoma senator also challenged the IEBC to respect the decision of a majority of Kenyans by delivering fair and credible elections free from rigging. Wetangula also hailed the Kenya Kwanza movement saying once in government, it will be key in uniting Kenyans. County governor Ann Waiguru told off Uhuru for showing signs of betrayal to his deputy even after the support he has received from him in the course of his term. MPs present led by Rigathi Gachagua echoed their key leaders sentiments saying Mount Kenya will not accept a president groomed in board rooms and hotels. He further challenged Uhuru to hastily fulfil his promise of revealing reasons as to why he fell out with his deputy. "As he prepares his reasons, we too as the Mt Kenya residents beg to ask him a handful of questions. Why is it that in his administration, business environment continues to be non conducive to our region traders and why under his watch is he allowing legally Jubilee elected leaders to suffer state oppression?" he posed. Gachagua went further to reveal that the UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya pact would favour Mt Kenya region considerably after election, thus the region should relax and confidently vote in the Kenya Kwanza team. "We the region leaders were in the negotiating room when UDA entered into an agreement with our new partners. Mt Kenya affairs have been looked into as we continue to strategize on how we can uplift our economy and put money back into the pockets of our people," he said. Other leaders present were Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Millicent Omanga, Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) among others.