The High Court on Tuesday extended orders suspending a government directive to prevent those who are not fully vaccinated from accessing services and entering public places. The public places include national parks, bars and restaurants. High Court judge Antony Mrima said the orders will remain in force until the matter is heard and determined. The extension of the order was issued when the case came up for mention. Parties sought clarification on whether the order was still in force given it had earlier stated 'until January 4'. Justice Mrima also consolidated all the five matters related to the case. The government in November last year announced it would require people to show vaccination certificates from December 21, 2021 to access in-person government services, including hospitals, schools, tax and immigration offices. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and his Tourism counterpart Najib Balala made the announcement, saying it was aimed at encouraging citizens to get inoculated. Lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, representing one of the petitioners, had raised concern on how some malls and hotels are already implementing the directive by asking Kenyans to produce certificates even though there is an order. He said they may be forced to file a contempt of court application against the state, if they do not stop implementing the directive. He also said the malls and those in the hospitality industry who were implementing the directive are not parties to the case. The judge did not issue any directions on that issue and directed the matter to be heard on February 1. The government also required Kenyans to showcase proof of vaccination while visiting some of these facilities. The order was granted following an application by Enock Aura. The petitioner argued the government has entered into highly secretive agreements with international pharmaceutical companies for the sale of the Covid-19 vaccines. Aura said Kagwe is privy to this information and has also failed to disclose to Kenyans the contents in the syringes of such ‘Covid-19 vaccines’. In documents filed in court, Aura said of great concern is the undocumented types of side effects, whether they are long, medium or short-term. The effects include fatalities precipitated by the administration of the vaccines on Kenyans. “CS Mutahi Kagwe has not disclosed to the Kenyan population what exactly is contained in the Covid-19 vaccines, or possible side effects, which are now being administered,” he said Aura said every Kenyan has a right to protect their health and safety. He said the deliberate hiding of data on the contents, effects, longevity or even undisclosed purposes of vaccines across the board is evidence of absence of relevant information to Kenyans.  (edited by Amol Awuor)