Politician and lawyer Karen Nyamu will welcome her third child next month. But that is not stopping the mother of two from campaigning for elective office. Nyamu hopes to run for Nairobi senator on the UDA ticket. Speaking to Word Is, she said her pregnancy has been smooth. "I prayed about the baby when I got pregnant since I knew I would be in the race and it will be grown during this time," she said. "I have not had any issue with the pregnancy and the baby is safe. Even the things that seem impossible before men, through prayers, turn out very positive." Nyamu said she will take a one-month break from campaigns. "Maternity leave does not have to be three months," she said. "With my son, there was time. I had to travel to and from Mombasa and it was one week after and he was okay. All I need is planning, which is already done. I have a very strong team behind me. Sometimes I even forget that I am pregnant." Nyamu said if elected senator, her focus will be on young people. "I will make sure the rights of the youth are observed and fight for them in all aspects," she said. Nyamu said she joined UDA, because it is accommodating. "In UDA we feel safe that we can compete and support the one who will win the nominations unlike the others, which have predetermined candidates," she said. Recently Samidoh's wife Edday announced that she will support her best friend Julie Mbogo for the position of Nairobi senator. Nyamu is Samidoh's baby mama. He is the father of her second child. Nyamu was unmoved by the announcement. She said she is only competing against Azimio La Umoja. "It's her right but I am not in competition with whoever she is supporting. Right now, you all know that chama ni mbili [there are only two parties]: UDA and Azimio, in all the positions," she said. "Hizo zingine ziko chini. I can't be in such a competition. She should also plan on starting something so that we also support her badala ya wivu. God has also planned." Mbogo is in Chama Cha Kazi. "If she wants to spoil for me just because she has realised I'm about to become a senator, she should know that God's plan cannot be disarranged by haters," Nyamu said