National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has condemned the recent killings in Tigania East, Meru County. In a statement on Saturday, Muturi called on the government to find the root cause of such violence. He also asked the government to increase security in the area, in addition to bringing perpetrators to book. "The national government must take immediate action to restore security in the area. The Meru and Isiolo County governments must play a leading role in preaching peace and addressing the underlying issues in conjunction with the Nairobi administration," Muturi said. "In the modern day Kenya, such macabre spillage of innocent blood cannot be justified on the basis of pasture, ethnic animosity, incitement or land dispute. Some or all the above could be contributing factors." He also condoled with the families of victims of the killings. The National Assembly speaker urged area leaders to pursue avenues that will ensure the conflicting communities coexist peacefully. "Farmers must be able to settle and grow their crops in peace. Patrolists should graze their animals in peace without encroaching on farms. At the end of the day, the farmer will need beef from the herder and the herder will need Unga from the crop farmer," Muturi said. Seven Meru residents were killed on Wednesday night in Mweronkoro, Tigania East. The residents were ambushed along the disputed grazing zone by suspected camel herders from Isiolo who were on a retaliatory attack. The attack came after angry residents drove the herders' camels out of their farms early Wednesday. Those killed were Lawrence Mweti, Kimathi Kaigera, Njilithia Kiunye, Kariie M'Muketha, Eric Turkana Kinoti, Muriiki Muthee and Maanthi Laibuta. Meru residents said it was not the first time such attacks were happening in the area and their main agenda is to grab their land. Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea, his Tigania West counterpart John Mutunga and Imenti South MP Kathuri Murungi condemned the killings. The three urged Meru county commissioner Karuku Ngumo to beef up security in the northern grazing zones. "Our people have suffered in the hands of criminals who destroy their crops on farms and kill innocent people. I call upon the county commissioner and other security agencies to protect our people and their property," Kabeabea said on phone.