Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala now says the Luhya nation will not back wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the event he is endorsed as one Kenya Alliance (OKA) flagbearer. Speaking in Kakamega on Saturday, the Senator said they are fed up with backing outsiders for the top seat. The MP said the Wiper leader has no numbers to warrant the backing of the ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. According to the Senator, the report by OKA technical committee will not be supported if Musalia is not fronted as the alliance's presidential candidate. "We want to tell them that it is a small river that channels its waters to a big river. We the Luhyas are many. We cannot be backing other people yet we are not backing our son," he said. A report done by OKA technical committee fronted Kalonzo as the best bet for the alliance. After a series of meetings and deliberations, the committee concluded that the Wiper boss stood a better chance than Musalia. "The only formula we shall accept is that which fronts Musalia as OKA presidential candidate," Malala added. The senator added that Musalia has backed Kalonzo before when ran as a running mate to Raila adding that it is time for the two to reciprocate his goodwill. The OKA team has been working on the modalities of picking a formidable candidate who will run against Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga who are deemed as frontrunners. OKA comprises ANC's Mudavadi, Wiper's Kalonzo, Kanu's Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula. The four principals have all expressed interest in the top seat. On Friday, Mudavadi snubbed a key OKA meeting held in Elementaita in Nakuru. His absence was viewed as a show of protest to the technical committee report backing Kalonzo. His political movements lately have left political commentators saying the ANC boss is gravitating towards DP Ruto's camp. He, however, denied holding talks with the DP regarding the 2022 elections. The ANC boss is expected on January 23, to declare the way forward on his political future after a meeting with his party members.