Vihiga Queens' attacking midfielder Christine Nafula wants to match her last season tally of 17 goals to put herself firmly in contention for the  Golden Boot gong in the Kenya Women's Premier League. The 30-year -old who was signed from Greece side, AEL Larisa in October last year, has managed three goals in as many games. She scored a brace against Nakuru Queens last month and a solo strike against  Trans-Nzoia Falcons on Tuesday at the Sports Complex, Mumias to further underline her importance to the Boniface Nyamunyamu- tutored side. The enterprising player was the third-best goalscorer in the Greek A2 League in the 2020-21 season with 17 strikes. Her outstanding performance convinced Vihiga to break the bank for another midfielder to partner Joan Nabirye and Marceline Wayodi in Queens' 4:3:3 regularly used formation. "I have scored thrice already but what matters to me most is that the team won," Nafula opened up. "I feel good here (Vihiga). We have a 100 percent win record so far and we want to build that momentum and possibly finish the league unbeaten and as champions. We all have the same goals as a team." "If I maintain this form, I don't see why I shouldn't go for the golden boot?" Nafula quipped. Nafula's heroics is good news to Vihiga after the team struggled when maverick forward Tereza Engesha was injured last season. With the Kenya Footballers Welfare Association KEFWA 2019 best player award-winning Engesha looking sharp and 20-year old Jentrix Shikangwa scrutinizingly re-born, Vihiga have enough firepower up front. Nafula, however, called on the team to maintain focus since it is just the start of the season with nothing won yet.  She said the quality of the women's league has gone a notch higher and local players need a platform to grow their game and attract moves abroad. "I have played a lot. We have a long way to go so we need to remain patient. One match at a time is our slogan." "The league is competitive and the players have come of age. However, we need the right channel to realise their potential. Kenya is blessed with  talent that sometimes remains untapped."  