If there's anything that we've all learned in 2020 and 2021, it's not to take our health for granted. 2022, a brand new year, brings fourth a renewed focus on your own lifestyle and priorities may be top of mind. The start of a new year is the perfect time to turn a new page, which is probably why so many people make New Year's resolutions. The new year often feels like a fresh start and a great opportunity to change bad habits and establish new routines that will help you grow psychologically, emotionally, socially, physically, or intellectually. Of course, resolutions are much easier to make than to keep, and by the end of March, many of us have abandoned our resolve and settled back into our old patterns. An easier way to effect lifestyle changes is by starting small, focusing on one behavior at a time and accepting support from others. Here is a list of basic healthy habits to incorporate in your day to day life in the coming year. 1. Wake Up Early Alright, you don’t need to rise and shine with the sun every morning, but waking up at a decent (early) hour is essential for optimal health. Researchers suggests that people who wake up early tend to go to bed earlier and enjoy longer, better quality sleep. Getting enough sleep comes with plenty of benefits including improved mood, better concentration, lower chance of obesity and other chronic diseases as well as improve skin. According to healthline Media, one can transition to be an early riser by finding a motivation by using the extra time to do something that makes them happy. "Getting up early shouldn’t feel like a chore, and you’ll be less inclined to make it happen if it does," the American health website said. Motivation such as tackling a project earlier so you can finish your workday in time to go out with friends, or enjoying a morning meditation or yoga come in handy. 2. Eat less sugar Eating too much sugar may be devastating for your health. This coming new year, you can avoid sugar by cutting back on sugary drink, avoiding sugary desserts, being careful with “healthy” processed snack foods and also limiting sugary breakfast foods. Opt for low-calorie or sugar-free drinks instead of sugar-sweetened beverages. Better yet, drink water. Be mindful of sauces such as ketchup and barbecue sauce, which can be high in sugar, and opt for lower sugar options such as salsa, mustard or hot sauce. 3. Eat a variety of proteins We all know proteins are good metabolism boost for our bodies. They reduce appetite and hunger levels, increases muscle mass and strength and are also good for your Bones. However, according to health experts, varying your proteins is good diet. Before you go on all rice-and-beans diet, you should know that your body has a way of balancing itself out if you eat a variety of protein sources. Each protein source is super unique. Because protein comprises up to 20 different amino acids, each source contains a different amino acid profile (which either has some or all of those aminos in different proportions). When we digest protein, our body absorbs the amino acids and uses them to build and repair tissue, influence immunity and metabolism and regulate gene expression. Essentially, you should mix up your proteins. Have both beans and meat. 4. Limit sodium. Salt intake of less than five grams per day for adults helps to reduce blood pressure and risk of cardiovascular disease, stroke and coronary heart attack. You can make the optimum decision to live more health in 2022 by choosing to avoid salt intake that exceeds the recommended level. The principal benefit of lowering salt intake is a corresponding reduction in high blood pressure. You can lower your sodium intake by choosing whole, unprocessed foods and eat plenty of vegetables and fruit. Always check food labels before you buy to help you choose less salty options. Take salt and salty sauces off the table so younger family members won't develop the habit of adding salt. 5. Stick to four meals per day! When think about your daily meals, you probably envision breakfast, lunch, and dinner — or the standard "three square meals" a day. However, you may want to switch to four meals a day if you're constantly in low energy throughout the day. Registered American dietician Sabrina Russo in an interview  underscored the importance of adjusting when we choose to eat. "Depending on your work schedule and personal life, the ideal timing of four meals per day may differ," Russo said. "I would suggest aiming for 8 a.m., 12 p.m., 3 p.m., and 7 p.m. The idea is each meal should be three to five hours apart and not too close to bedtime." According to health experts, meals should likely be smaller than normal and contain satiating ingredients, such as a source of protein and fiber. You may choose to have a standard breakfast, lunch, and dinner, but add in a healthy afternoon snack. If that sounds good and you'd like to give it a try, you will notice some health benefits. 6.Put Your Phone Away Being connected 24/7 to your phone (tablet or computer) can have many negative side effects on our health. The average person has eight social media accounts and spends at least two hours and 24 minutes checking their phone every day. Just think of all the time that could be spent outside, moving, exercising, or cooking. This new year, strive to limit the constant digital connection which can increase perceived stress and constant exposure to blue light. The exposure to blue light is said to suppress the production of the body’s natural melatonin production, which is integral for the body’s natural circadian rhythm and sleep patterns. So instead of cruising the web until the wee hours of the morning, turn off your phone at least one hour before bed and allow yourself to relax and unwind without the digital stress. 7. Make Time for Movement Maintaining a physically active lifestyle isn’t easy. Our human sedentary lifestyles is making us move less and less. Many of us work sitting down, travel sitting down, and relax sitting down, so it is becoming more and more important that we create ways to move since they are no longer occurring organically. Gone are the days where our daily lives included manual labour and, therefore, we must carve out specific time for movement lives. The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans recommends that all adults do at least 150 minutes per week of physical activity at an intensity that elevates the heart rate. Older adults are recommended to add balance exercises. And with the exception of women who are pregnant or nursing, adults should lift weights using all major muscle groups at least twice a week. Exercise has tremendous health benefits for both the body and the mind and there are so many different ways to create movement in your day. Whether you love biking, swimming, dancing or going to the gym, it is imperative that you find some form of movement that you enjoy and make time for it on a daily basis. 8. Drink Water Before Anything Else Staying hydrated is vital for our health and although we’ve heard it many times, it’s often overlooked. Research has shown that even slight dehydration can cause a drop in energy levels. It makes sense as water is crucial for nearly every system of your body to function properly. A glass before each meal is the perfect way to stay on an energy-boosting track