Garissa Governor Ali Korane says a major overhaul is on the way at the county referral hospital in order to fix the ailing facility. Korane spoke on Saturday during an impromptu visit at the facility in order to get firsthand information on how it was being run. The Level 5 facility has in the last two months been making headlines for all the wrong reasons. Patients have been complaining of poor services with reports that the medical staff were either absconding duty or reporting late. There have been claims that facility is in a filthy state. Patients are also advised to purchase prescribed drugs in private chemists. The hospital serves residents of Garissa, Mandera, Wajir, Tana River and parts of Kitui counties. Following the complaints, Korane interacted with patients and hospital staff to get first hand information on the facility management. The governor visited wards, maternity wing, pharmacy and theatre. He also visited the maternal and child healthcare center, central sterilisation center, kitchen and laundry area. The 9am visit caught many off guard. Majority of the medical and subordinate staff including the medical superintendent Ambrose Misori had not arrived. Korane who was accompanied by the county secretary Abdi Ali, protocol officer Faiza Sadiq and other county officials blamed the current situation on poor management. "What I have seen at the hospital is very tragic, a complete institutional collapse. "However, if you ask any of our petty politicians and social media warriors they will tell you it is a resource problem and that funds are not being given to the institution, but that is far from it. “The biggest challenge we have in this county and with devolution is the capacity to do things right. Sometimes even when the problems are glaring and visible because of lack of capacity and skills we still give it a political angle,” he said. Korane said the institution's funds for this financial year are yet to be released. He however added that monies intended for other purposes have been re-directed to the health department. The governor said Sh26 million has been given out with a big chunk going to the facility. “When I went to the hospital there was no soap or detergent. For Sh1,000 you can buy soap that can used in that hospital for a week and for Sh10,000 you can buy all the materials, but still they could not. "There is a complete collapse of management which I promise to fix immediately,” Korane said. He said he will take it upon himself to correct the mess at the facility. He promised residents of a major overhaul of management including the appointment of a new CEO. The governor said thorough investigations will be carried and any staff found to be sleeping on the job will face disciplinary action. “We cannot compromise on the health of our people and that is why I want to make it very clear that it will not be business as usual. "When the hospital fails in its duties and residents complain then the blame comes to me as the governor. I won't allow it to get to that level, enough is enough," Korane said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)