President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga would be forced to work with tight timelines to have the Azimio la Umoja Coalition in place ahead of the August 9 election. With less than eight months to the polls, the duo is rushing to entrench the Azimio Coalition party – Raila’s political machine – into law. According to the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021, a coalition party must be in place four months before the polls. This means any coalition party must exist as a legal entity by April 9. However, the timelines headache is made worse by the IEBC requirement that political parties conclude their nominations by April 16. This means supporters of the new outfit must have the party in place before April to give them ample time for nominations of candidates for various seats. Backers of Azimio are keen to have only one candidate under the outfit for each elective seat. This means they will either conduct joint nominations or zone the country and allow affiliates to sponsor candidates in areas they have strength. ODM chairman John Mbadi, in an interview with the Star, said the Bill will have the President's signature by end of January to pave way for the formation of a coalition party in February. “There is no worry, let the Senate finish with the Azimio Bill, once it is done the President is going to assent to it,” the National Assembly Minority Leader said. The Suba South lawmaker said they will use February and March to have Azimio Coalition Party registered and set rules for nomination. “We can form a coalition in February and send our nomination rules if we agree to do joint nomination or to zone the country,” Mbadi said. Complicating further the realisation of the Azimio is if Tangatanga MPs make good their threat to take the war on new elections laws to courts. This may derail further the realisation of the Azimio party as the case may drag past the April timelines. “In every election, the timeline is much squeezed, remember Narc was formed two months to elections. We have seven months to the election, we still have time. There is no panic,” Mbadi said Already Deputy President William Ruto’s allies led by Kandara MP Alice Wahome have threatened to challenge the law in court after their numerous amendments were defeated on the floor of the House. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi who chairs Raila’s presidential campaign board however downplayed any challenge posed by legal hurdles saying the idea of the coalition will be embraced across the political divide. “We are confident that these processes are moving forward well and coalitions are good for everyone,” Ndiritu told the Star. National Assembly Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe called on the Judiciary to remain independent and avoid being roped into politics. “Our colleagues in Tangatanga have been boasting on the floor that they are already talking to the Judiciary, that kind of conversation is unhealthy and uncalled for,” the Navakholo MP said. “I plead with the Judiciary not to allow the political class from the Legislature to rope them into our politics. We have confidence in our Judiciary.” Also standing on the way of the Bill is the division that has already split the Senate ahead of Tuesday's special sitting. Already, some senators are indicating they’ll introduce amendments to the Bill. A roadmap issued by the Senate Business Committee shows that the senators have until January 27 to conclude the consideration of the Bill. After its introduction for first reading, it shall be committed to the Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee that will steer it through public participation and file a report. The report shall be tabled on January 25 to pave the way for debate. The debate will run until January 27 when a vote will be taken. “We have one or two things that we would want to raise before we pass it. Issues of public participation and one or two amendments that we shall propose,” Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said. If the assembly rejects the amendments, the two speakers shall appoint a mediation committee consisting of equal number of members of the National Assembly and the Senate– another long process that shall delay further the passage of the bill. On Monday, Wangwe appealed to senators to avoid grandstanding and pass the Bill. “I am requesting my colleagues in the Senate to pass this Bill very first. If it is passed within the timelines then the timing of April 9 will not be a big problem,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris