New Harambee Starlets coach Alex Alumirah has named a provisional squad of 36 players for the crunch African Women's Cup of Nations match against Uganda next month. The first of the two-legged qualifier between the perennial rivals is set for February 17 with the reverse fixture slated for Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. The winner will earn automatic qualification for the continental showpiece in Morocco, later this year. Alumira, who was appointed Starlets coach on Monday, has maintained the bulk of the players that served under Charles Okere. He observed that there is no time to tinker with the squad but certain parameters had to be met even as the players head for residential training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani today. "There's no need to make wholesale changes to a winning team while we've got little time. We had to look at current performances, competencies and proficiency before coming up with the squad," Alumira said. The Tigers FC tactician said they are burning midnight oil to work on the mental strength of the players while crafting a plan on scalping the Bulega Faridah-coached Crested Cranes. "Football is all about the psychological edge. We are also monitoring how they've been playing to have an idea on how best to tackle them," he said. Five goalkeepers have been called  with Gaspo's Pauline Kathure the only locally-based in the department. Anita Adongo who plays for Tanzania's Alliance FC as well as Spain-based Cynthia Shilwatso were recalled and so is Martha Amunyolete. US-based Marjolene Nekesa and  Wadadia's Cindy Ngaira will fancy their chances in a star-studded midfield while the attack remains unchanged. "We've given all our foreign-based players a chance. Whoever makes it that will be a plus," said Alumira. Vihiga Queens are the biggest beneficiaries with seven players, while Thika and Ulinzi have five each. The Starlets began their AWCON journey by humiliating minnows South Sudan 15-1 on aggregate  but Uganda will be a bigger test. Squad: Goalkeepers: Annette Kundu (AEL-Cyprus), Pauline Kathure (Gaspo), Lilian Awuor (Soyaux-France), Samantha Akinyi (Tigers FC-Tanzania), Carolyne Rufa ((Fountain Gate-Tanzania); Defenders: Leah Andiema (Gaspo), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga), Juliet Andibo (Thika), Dorcus Shikobe (Lakatamia), Lucy Akoth (Ulinzi), Phoebe Owiti (Vihiga), Enez Mango (Vihiga), Wincate Kaari (Thika), Ruth Ingosi (Lakatamia), Janet Bundi (Vihiga), Janet Mumo (Mathare United) ,  Anita Adongo (Alliance-Tanzania) , Lavender (Zetech), Nelly Sawe (Thika); Midfielders: Sheril Angachi (Ulinzi), Corazone Acquino (Gaspo), Mercy Oginga (Vihiga), Lydia Akoth (Thika), Nuru Adima (Thika), Cynnthia Shilwatso (Longrono-Spain), Lorna Nyarinda (Vihiga),  Martha Amunyolette (Trans-Nzoia) ,  Marjolene Nekesa (USA), Diana Koske (Tigers FC), Cindy Ngaira (Wadadia); Attackers: Terry Engesha (Vihiga), Jentrix Shikangwa (Fatih Karagumruk) , Mwanahalima Adam Dogo (Hakkaragicu-Turkey), Violet Wanyonyi (Trans-Nzoia), Essie Akida (PAOK-Greece), Mercy Airo (Gaspo), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo)     0 