Kenya Under-20 centre Richel Wangila has been called up to Shujaa for the upcoming Malaga and Seville World Sevens Series tournaments slated for this month in Spain. Wangila impressed for Chipu during the Safari Sevens in October and will be looking to shine in training for the next one and a half weeks before the team jets out to Europe. Head coach Innocent Simiyu has retained the services of Nondies' Benson Salem, Arcadius Khwesa, Zedden Marrow, and Hannington Wabwire who played at last year's  Safari Sevens tournament. Kenya Simbas' Jone Kubu, John Okoth, Timothy Okwemba, and Derrick Ashihundu, who were on tour in November in South Africa, have also joined training as they eye a slot in the 12-man squad for the upcoming tournaments. The former skipper said the team resumed training on Monday in a bid to secure a bubble at Kasarani in readiness for the Malaga and  Seville events later this month. He said he is delighted to have a full house as the build-up for both the  Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July as well the Rugby Sevens World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa in September gains momentum. “We are trying to build depth for the this year and its encouraging to see a full house. This gives the technical bench options ahead of key events,” he added. Simiyu expressed optimism of improved results following an underwhelming start to the season. Last season, the team only won three matches out of 12 despite qualifying for the quarterfinals in both tournaments in Dubai. "We have looked at various facets of play including our defence and attack and we believe we can sort things out before the season resumes,” added Simiyu.  The tactician hailed the return of strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani as they look to improve on speed. “It's an area that Kimani is very familiar with and he will be an asset to ther team for the next quarter as we look to improve all facets of our play,” said Kimani. Training squad: Nelson Oyoo (Captain)- (Nakuru), Jeffrey Oluoch (Homeboyz), Bush Mwale – (Homeboyz),  Alvin Marube (Impala Saracens), Billy Odhiambo – (Mwamba),  Johnstone Olindi (KCB),  Alvin Otieno (KCB), Levi Amunga(KCB),  Edmund Anya(Impala Saracens), Antony Omondi (Mwamba), Timothy Mmasi (MMUST), Herman Humwa ( Harlequins),  Mark Kwemoi(Oilers), Collins Shikoli (Homeboyz), Kevin Wekesa (Kabras), Vincent Onyala (KCB), Derrick Ashihundu (Kabras), Ernest Kuke (Blakblad), Zedden Marrow(Homeboyz),  Richel Wangila, Benson Salem (Nondies), Arcadius Khwesa (Blakblad),  Jone Kubu (Kabras), Hannington Wabwire (Nakuru), Daniel Taabu (Mwamba), John Okoth(Menengai Oilers), Timothy Okwemba (Menengai Oilers).