If you were not previously aware that politics is the true art of the possible, you should be by now. As I write this column, it appears as though Musalia Mudavadi has decided to throw in his lot with Deputy President William Ruto and that the promised earthquake was only a minor one with no real lasting damage except for the splitting up of OKA. However, that alliance was never going to last long and the end was always on the cards in any case. Kalonzo Musyoka and Gideon Moi will probably find a home in Azimio. Meanwhile, if the land economist and the botanist want to get it on, then nobody should stand in their way. Both are grown-ups, both have been in the political game long enough  and both know what the other can do to complete them and their ticket. As the British novelist Barbara Taylor Bradford wrote: “We are each the authors of our own lives. We live in what we have created. There is no way to shift the blame and no one else to accept the accolades.” If the two have decided to be on the same ticket then one presumes that Ruto will be centre forward and Mudavadi will relive his days on the playing fields of Nairobi School, where he was by all accounts, a talented midfielder. Way back when Mudavadi was still wet behind the ears, politically speaking, I remember I wrote a profile of him as he delivered his first budget as Finance Minister. It was while I was doing my research that I learned about his days as a schoolboy footballer. If my memory serves me right, a midfielder's job is to act as a link man between a team's defending and attacking players. His is a crucial position in that he is the one the centre forward depends on to set up chances to score goals. These will be useful talents to have in a principal assistant, or at least that will be the story sold to voters as the campaign gets going. In reality, it will probably mean that his talents and experience will be of no use apart from as a magnet to draw voters. In the same vein, the fact that Mudavadi was the shortest-serving Vice President in Kenyan history and that he could not even hold on to his parliamentary seat at the 2002 election, will be glossed over as yaliyopita and all that. In Kenya, as Ruto himself came to find out immediately after the 2017 election was in the bag, the experience of the DP and that of Vice Presidents since Independence is that of someone with little to do and little influence on the President's policies. As John Garner, who was Vice President under Franklin Roosevelt, famously said: the vice presidency was not worth a bucket of warm spit. But for now, he can expect to have the same treatment as Ruto had with President Uhuru Kenyatta, or for that matter, that President Jomo Kenyatta had with his first Veep, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. At the start of their term in office, it was all buddy, buddy, same outfits down to matching fly whisks and beaded caps. Before a year had passed, they could barely bear to be in the same room. Veep Number two Joseph Murumbi was risk-averse and didn’t need the drama he’d seen Odinga go through and decided to quit while he was ahead. Old Jomo’s veep number three, Vice President Daniel arap Moi, hung on for 12 years. While his boss was at this stage more hands-off than hands-on, most of those around him made it their life’s work to make the Vice President’s life a living hell. But Moi also mistreated his Veeps: Mwai Kibaki, Josephat Karanja, but saved the greatest humiliation for George Sairtoti, who, despite it all, served 13 years, one longer than Moi in the number two seat. In fact, it might be said that only Kibaki behaved decently towards his  three Vice Presidents.