Police in Kitale Sunday thwarted plans by Deputy President William Ruto's allies to hold a meeting from a venue they had booked. The MPs Rigathi Gachagua, Kimani Ngunjiri, Alice Wahome and Jayne Kihara had earlier attended a church service at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa at Section 6, one kilometre from Kitale's Central Business District. The UDA team later proceeded to the Kitale Nature Conservancy  where they had planned a meeting with members of Kikuyu community living in Trans Nzoia. However, anti-riot police arrived, cordoned off the venue and declared the meeting illegal. The team which had come to deliver a special message from Ruto pleaded with the police to allow them have their lunch outside the premises before leaving. The enraged politicians who expressed frustrations on their faces hurriedly  headed to Bridgestone Hotel in Kibomet to continue with their meeting only to be surprised that the police had already barricaded the entrance of the hotel. Speaking outside the hotel,  the leaders who were accompanied by a handful of their supporters, said they were only meeting their supporters to give a message of peace towards the general election. They accused the government of stifling democracy and freedom of association and expression during campaigns. Gachagua who is a sworn critic of the government accused Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and former Rift valley  regional commissioner George Ntatembeya for their tribulations. He claimed  hat Natembeya  was still instrumental in giving orders to the police and the provincial administration in the region since the Office of the President had not released him. They accused the national government for misusing public resources to undermine leaders allied to Ruto. Kwanza subcounty police commander James Odera laughed off the claims, saying the team did not have a police permit to hold the meeting. He said police were only there to enforce the law and told politicians to respect the very rules of law they enacted in Parliament. The law requires that politicians holding rallies must notify the police and get a permit. Trans Nzoia county assembly speaker Joshua Werunga hit at the MPs for operating as if the Constitution had been suspended to allow lawlessness. He defended Eugene and Natembeya against the accusations and told both Gachagua and Wahome to stop planting seeds of discord. " You cannot come all the way to cause friction among our people who live in peace," he said. "Trans Nzoia is a cosmopolitan county which is a small Kenya and anyone dividing residents along tribal lines is our enemy number one enemy. "  (edited by Amol Awuor)