Police arrested three suspected kidnappers who had held a 23-year-old man hostage in a single-roomed house in Githurai, Nairobi, on Tuesday. The three kidnappers are said to have demanded a Sh300,000 ransom from his family. Police said the victim had traveled from Mwingi East to Githurai to visit a couple who hail from the same rural area, only to arrive and find the woman of the house alone. Police say the husband later stormed in accompanied by three other men, who landed on the young man with blows and kicks on the allegation that he was having a romantic affair with the wife. They then frisked the victim, taking Sh5,000 from him, before whisking him away to the empty room. The victim was forced to contact his family to raise the Sh300,000 ransom, with the kidnappers threatening dire consequences if they failed to comply. The family then reported the matter to the police, who trailed him to the place. Cases of kidnapping Police say they have dozens of pending kidnapping cases, and they are still under investigation. Directorate of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said such incidents are solved if and when the families cooperate. He said they had increased their capacity to address the menace. According to the National Crime Research Centre, the most common types of kidnappings are those committed by a stranger, kidnappings committed by an acquaintance- where a victim is kidnapped and forced to withdraw money from an ATM, inside kidnapping- committed by a family member, and virtual kidnapping. The centre says there are socio-cultural (including religious and moral), economic and political motives for kidnapping. “Revenge is the major socio-cultural motive for kidnappings, ransom payment is the major economic motive while overcoming and/or reducing political rivalry is the major political motive for the kidnapping," it said. The most prominent factors behind crime include unemployment, poverty, gangs and militia, backward cultural practices, instability and conflicts, inefficiency and/or corruption among some members of the security system, political competition, and rivalry. Other factors are the marginalization of some areas, the proliferation of illegal weapons, and competition for control of resources. “The crime of kidnapping exposes victims to serious negative treatments and conditions including physical abuse, sexual abuse, psychological abuse, confinement and isolation, poor feeding, being drugged, and murder," the centre says. The centre wants the National Intelligence Service and National Police Service to improve their intelligence gathering and sharing, detection, and investigative capacities involving kidnapping.