Former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau has appealed to the Chief Justice Martha Koome to establish special courts that will deal with hate speech. Kamau said such cases should be heard and determined as fast as possible and those convicted jailed so that they can become an example to other Kenyans. The former MP said many cases drag in courts for years which, he said, encourages politicians to commit offences because they know Kenyans will have forgotten about them by the time they are determined. But hate speech cases, he aded, concern the electoral process and should be taken very seriously and prosecuted as fast as possible to deter potential offenders. Kamau said the cases should be determined in a month and suspects required to attend hearings regularly without fail until their fate is determined. He said having people convicted and jailed is the only to make people understand that their speeches can land them in trouble. Kamau added the 2007 post elections violence that saw countless of people lose their lives and thousands of families displaced was sparked by reckless statements by leaders. “It is unfortunate that some leaders have been making some very concerning statements. We cannot go back to what happened in 2007. Kenya cannot allow people to go back to that time,” he said. He urged the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to take fast action against leaders keen on dividing Kenyans. Kenyans, he said, want to see suspects arrested and prosecuted. Kamau who has announced his bid to vie for the governorship of Murang’a county further reiterated that residents of the Mt Kenya region will not vote along party lines in the coming general election. He said the electorate has given all indication that they will vote for leaders on the basis of their development record. The region has in the past voted as a block for Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta in their presidential bids. It is only until recently that the region revolted against the government, a fact largely attributed to the hard economic times. However, the twist of events has benefited Deputy President William Ruto who has enjoyed the support of residents for the last few years. But Kamau, who spoke during a free medical camp he had organised at Gakurwe dispensary in Murang’a East on Thusrday, said he is yet to decide which party he will use. However, he exuded confidence that Murang'a residents will support him regardless. “In a month’s time, my supporters and I will sit and agree on the best party to use after which we will make an announcement,” he said. Kamau said he is the one who registered Jubilee Party and was also among the founders of TNA after serving as the national vice chairperson of PNU. “I have been in party politics for a long time but I know this time, parties will not influence the way people cast their votes,” he added. Kamau said lack of a powerful presidential candidate from the region has largely contributed to the shift in its voting pattern. He further asked Kenyans who are yet to register as voters to do so in order to elect their leaders of choice. “If you don’t like a certain leader and then you fail to vote, you will be voting them in,” he said, adding that campaign to lobby for registration will be undertaken in Murang’a with the partnership of all leaders.  (edited by Amol Awuor)