Candidates in the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession race have until April 9 to unveil their running mates for presentation to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The Wafula Chebukati-led polls agency said this in its notice of the August 9 General Election published on Friday, putting the candidates seeking election under its watch. “Political parties intending to present a candidate in the presidential election shall submit the names of persons contesting in the party primaries, the date and venues of the primaries on or before April 9, 2022 —being 21 days before the nomination day,” the IEBC said. This means ODM leader Raila Odinga and DP William Ruto—who are the frontrunners—will have to name their choices for deputy president by then. Other candidates in the race are Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu’s Gideon Moi, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Gospel singer Reuben Kigame, and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is set to make an announcement on Sunday relating to his plans in the Uhuru succession race. The frontrunners have been under pressure from their allies who are pushing that they be named as the candidate for deputy president. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Agriculture CS Peter Munya, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, Equity Bank CEO James Mwangi have been touted as possible Raila choices. For Ruto, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has been mentioned as his would-be deputy in the August election. Political parties, as per the notice, would also be required to present the list of their nominees for the various seats by the April 9 deadline. “A political party intending to present a presidential candidate in this election shall conduct its primaries and resolve intraparty disputes on or before Friday, April 22,” the notice reads. The notice marks the commencement of the election period, hence giving IEBC powers to enforce the Electoral Code of Conduct and the Election Offences Act. Chebukati, in a press statement on Friday, said the commission has powers to impose penalties or sanctions for breach of the code. The code prohibits acts of violence and intimidation, use of hate speech, campaigning in places of worship, plagiarising symbols— colours and acronyms, destruction of political campaign material of any political party, voter bribery, abuse of positions of power and discrimination in respect of the election. “A party that defaults in payment of a fine may be prohibited by the commission from participating in the election until the fine is paid.” Chebukati also warned candidates against the use of its logo on campaign posters and billboards saying those involved should cease. “This is an illegal act which contravenes the constitutional standing of the commission as an independent, impartial, and non-partisan institution,” the chairman said. The notice sets in motion the deadlines to be observed by candidates including but not limited to nominations, resignation from public offices, and for choosing to run as independents. Parties intending to present candidates through direct nomination have until April 28 to do so whereas those seeking to run as independents have until May 2 to clear with the IEBC. “Candidates intending to participate in this election as independent candidates shall submit their names and symbols to the commission on or before Monday May 2, 2022.” The commission further reminded public officers who intend to contest in the general election that they have to resign from public office on or before February 9. Presidential candidates would also be required to furnish the IEBC with a list bearing the names, signatures, identity cards or passport numbers of at least 2,000 voters registered in each of a majority of the counties. The IEBC, as per the notice, is scheduled to receive papers from the respective presidential candidates between May 29 and June 6, marking the start of official campaigns. “The campaign time shall run from 7am to 6pm during the campaign period,” Chebukati said. Political parties have a deadline of June 9 to lodge disputes bordering on the nominations, the same having to be concluded within 10 days of filing. Political parties would also be required to submit names of persons contesting in the party primaries, the date and venues by April 9, being 21 days before nomination day. Those seeking to run as independent MPs will be required to relinquish their membership of political parties by May 2, being three months to the general election. The rules are expected to apply for candidates in the race for Senate, Governor, Woman Representative, and Members of County Assembly.   -Edited by SKanyara