Following a dismal performance in Malaga, Shujaa have been placed in a tricky Pool D of the Seville Sevens where they face Australia, Canada and Scotland. Innocent  Simiyu's charges picked up just a point after winning one match and losing five in a disjointed campaign which saw Kenya drop to ninth place on the log on 23 points. Shujaa will open their campaign against Australia in a repeat of their Dubai Sevens clash, where the Aussies won 21-14. Kenya's second fixture will be against Canada, the third meeting between the two sides this season, having won one match each. Kenya won 26-14 in Dubai with the North Americans winning 19-17 over the weekend in Malaga. Shujaa's final fixture will be against Scotland, their second meeting this season with the Scots winning 17-12 last weekend. Champions South Africa, who have won the last five tournaments and are unbeaten in 29 matches, headline Pool 'A' alongside Spain and the USA. Pool 'B' will have Argentina battle against Ireland, Germany and minnows Jamaica. England, who took the bronze in Malaga, have a date with France, Wales and Japan. Shujaa skipper Nelson Oyoo said the team was disappointed with their performance in Malaga but said they have a chance to atone for their lethargic display in Seville starting Friday. The Nakuru RFC winger said the team must improve their attack shape. "We had possession but at times we took the wrong decisions, which blunted our attack and put us under pressure,” said Oyoo. Elsewhere, former Homeboyz RFC and Kenya Harlequins winger Mark Wandeto has joined British Columbia Premier Rugby League side Ravens Rugby Club in Vancouver, Canada. Ravens are the two-time champions (2018-19) of the British Columbia Premier Rugby League. The 25-year-old versatile winger joined Homeboyz RFC in 2015, won three Great Rift 10’s titles, National 7s circuit and staged an MVP performance before moving to Quins in January 2020. He has been instrumental for Kenya Harlequins, scoring five tries in the ongoing season. Wandeto played his last game for Quins in a 21-20 win over MMUST where he scored the match-winning try.