A family in Munyu Komo village in Thika has demanded the government to release the remains of their Kin who was mauled to death by hyenas four years ago. The family has been living with the remains of 64 year old Joseph Njuguna who in 2017 was killed by hyenas while grazing livestock.  Release the skull of our loved one we bury him, Thika family plea. Parts of the body which included head skull were taken to government chemist for analysis. Since then, the skull has remained with the government hence denying the family a chance to bury him. According to the deceased mother Margret Njeri,   95 years, the remains of his son's body are stacked under her bed. She said she cannot bury him since the family cannot be given a burial permit until the report from government chemist is submitted. This has however  delayed since 2017. “It pains me when every day I know my son's body parts are under my bed yet I cannot burry him due to a report from government chemist,” said Njeri. Njeri said that since his son’s death she also lost her husband and another son who both have been buried. She said that her plea from the related authorities has landed on deaf ears as no response has ever been issued over the matter. Fredrick Kahuha,  younger brother to the deceased, said that on the fateful day his brother died, they were able to collect a few body parts which included bones, clothes, intestines, hair and ribs which they have stored. They later found head skull after a day’s search which was taken to the government chemist to ascertain identity where DNA samples were taken from the deceased mother Njeri. No report has ever been submitted. “We have been taken round in circles by the government since a single report has made us not to get burial permit to bury my brother. I have witnessed other ten people killed on different years since my brother by the hyenas and all have been buried. We wonder why have we been denied justice,” said Kahuha. Kahuha said that as a family they have been traumatized by the issue which led to their parents having high blood pressure and eventually their father passed on. Kahuha said that he has gone and written letters to the directorate of criminal investigations who have maintained that the government chemist is reluctant to issue a report. “I have severally taken the matter to the Kenya wildlife service (KWS) who says they cannot do anything without the government chemist report. The DCI said that they are tired of asking for the report since it has been unforthcoming. We are now stranded,” said Kahuha. Njeri Mbugua  a family member said as as family they will not plead anymore and they want the remains of their kin be issued out by the government so that they can proceed to bury their kin. “We are demanding the government to give us the remains of our kin so that we bury him and end the agony we have been living with for years,” said Njeri. The family said that they had to relocate their grandmother from her 10 acre land because of fear of the hyena mauling her since last week the hyenas maulled her dogs to death and now is afraid to go out of her house. The family has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to order the release of the remains and also the KWS to secure the hyenas which have continued to cause havoc and death to the community. Two people have also been reported to have been mauled to death by the hyenas in the last one week. A multi unit team drawn from the DCI and the KWS has been assembled to track down the hyenas.