Preparations for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Saturday mega rally in Thika town have been concluded. More than 20,000 residents are expected to attend. Organisers led by businessman David Ngari said they expect people to come from as far as Murang’a county. At least 300 leaders, including governors, senators, woman representatives, MPs and MCAs are expected to attend. On Friday, Ngari said the rally will stamp Raila’s authority in the mountain region ahead of the August 9 General Election. He spoke on Friday at Thika stadium where the event will be held. “All is set for the big day. The podium is ready and all other arrangements have been concluded. Kiambu and Murang’a residents are eagerly waiting for their favourite presidential candidate,” Ngari said. He said security has been increased, adding that those who might be hatching plans to disrupt the meeting would be dealt with according to the law. In July 2017, just a month to the general election, Raila was forced to cut short his Thika town tour after rowdy youth disrupted the meeting and pelted his motorcade with stones.  Police were forced to lob teargas and fire into the air to disperse the unruly youth. Ngari said the Thika meeting will water down all efforts and inroads made by United Democratic Alliance (UDA) leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto. He said residents of the Mt Kenya region are ready for Raila’s presidency. Ngari said since Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta joined forces to unite the country, they have been able to significantly combat graft in the country. “The duo have worked together tirelessly to slay the corruption dragon in the country. Voting in Raila will ensure that corruption becomes a thing of the past. But voting some other people will be like licensing graft for another two decades,” he said. Bishop Amos Anyoro, the leader of minority groups living in Kiambu county, expressed optimism that after Saturday’s visit, Raila will increase his chances of netting more votes in the vote-rich region. Raila’s decision to start his presidential campaigns in Thika, which is Uhuru’s home turf, is a clear indication that he is determined to win the mountain region and topple his main opponent, Ruto. Edited by A.N