More than 20 Christian denominations on Tuesday held a memorial service in honour of Rev David Matolo, the patron of the Garissa Pastors’ Forum. Matolo, 63, died last week as he was being rushed to the Garissa Referral Hospital after complaining of chest pain and breathing complications. Until his death, he was the minister of the Mororo-based Redeemed Gospel Church. Rev Joseph Mwasia, who worked closely with Matolo, described him "as an honest and straight forward man of God who fought for the unity of Christians in Garissa". Mwasia, who is the chairman of the pastors’ fellowship, urged faithfuls in Garissa to remain steadfast in their faith and maintain unity as the country heads towards the general election in August. “Matolo was such a rare breed, he oozed wisdom in whatever he said and left a positive mark in whatever he did. "Those who interacted with him can attest to the fact that he was committed to serving God. I will personally miss him. I have lost a brother, but I know he is in a better place,” he said. Clerics who spoke at the memorial service that was held at Redeemed Gospel Church hailed Matolo for his commitment to the Christian faith and being a link between the Christians and the county security team. The Pastors’ Forum and Pastors’ Fellowship brings together over 40 Christian clerics from Garissa and neighbouring Mororo and Madogo in Tana River county. Both Mwasia and Matolo were members of the and cleric’s interfaith that brings together the Christian and Muslim clerics. The team was formed to promote peaceful co-existence between the Muslim and Christian faithfuls at the height of the terror attacks in Garissa. The interfaith forum was also tasked with promoting peace building, government programmes, development and political tolerance. Tana River Woman Rep Rehema Hassan and Salah Ward MCA Fouzia Karani sent their messages of condolences to the family, friends and faithfuls of the Redeemed Gospel Church. Matolo will be buried in Bondo, Siaya county on Friday. He leaves behind a widow and three children. The body has since been transferred to Bama mortuary in Siaya. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)