Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga's ODM party now says Deputy President William Ruto is planning to dispute the elections results of August 9. During a press conference at Chungwa House on Thursday, ODM faulted UDA’s decision to write to ICC over ‘state-sponsored’ violence claiming that is a broader scheme to deny election outcome. The Party claimed Ruto has realised that winning the August elections is a tall order for him and has resorted to making excuses to justify his plan to dismiss the results come August. “We want our members to know that we are now dealing with an opponent who has realized that he cannot win. They are laying a basis of rejection of results in the general elections,” ODM Secretary-General said. In the January 17 letter, UDA – a party linked to DP – detailed violence incidences targeting their meetings which they claimed was thriving due to inaction and connivance by the state. The letter came days after rowdy youths unsuccessfully tried to block Ruto from accessing Jacaranda grounds where the second in command addressed a rally last Sunday. Ruto accused Raila of planning the chaos claiming the ex-PM is using violence to ascend to power. Sifuna yesterday dismissed the claims saying the DP is out to mudsling the party and its leader Raila after realizing the ground has shifted. “We know the reason why these people encounter these violent cases. It is because they carry money and you can't give one group and leave the other. You must give everybody money,” Sifuna said. “They want to draw us into the mud after they started the hateful language of madoadoa. We will not fall into their trap. We call on our supporters not to be provoked. We will win the poll fair and square.” Sifuna who is also eyeing the Nairobi Senate seat said UDA engagement of the international community betrays their earlier position on local solutions. “They have previously told us issues to do with Kenya should be dealt with in the country. Why are you writing to the international community??” Sifuna posed. If you have evidence, go ahead and give the DCI and DPP.” Sifuna was speaking after meeting 47 ODM county chairmen at the party’s headquarters, Chungwa House.