Eldas MP Adan Keynan has dismissed the Kenya Kwanza brigade. He said Azimio la Umoja was a better option. Keynan urged Northern Kenya residents not to be deceived to join the DP William Ruto led group. The MP said what Raila stands for resonates well with the people from the pastoral communities. Keynan is the Jubilee coalition joint parliament group secretary. Together with Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, they have formed the Upya movement. The legislator spoke on Saturday when he officially opened the Markaz Al-Firdows Mosque in Wajir. He said the challenges facing the region can only be solved by being in the right political group. Keynan said education, infrastructural development, basic rights, durable and sustainable livestock market for the Asal region, were so dear to Northern Kenya. “To sort out the historical issues, the right group is the one that believes in national integration, cohesion and continued shared prosperity for every Kenyan regardless of region, tribe or political affiliation,” he said. “I urge all the people from Asal communities to remain part of the handshake and Azimio group to ensure they are in the next government.” Keynan described as a non-starter in Kenyan politics, the newfound coalition between Ruto, Musalia and Wetangula. He said Mudavadi, a seasoned politician, had destroyed his career by joining Ruto, a move that Kenyans did not expect. “The earthquake we were told about was a hox, what we expected was not what we have seen, we wish them well but I assure you they are going nowhere,” Keynan said. “I hope in due course the Mudavadi and cohort will realise the fatal mistake they have made and come back to the mainstream political grouping being spearheaded by the President and ODM leader.” On Saturday the Kenya kwanza brigade continued attacking the State for supposedly imposing ODM leader Raila Odinga to form the next government. Ruto urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to allow Kenyans to decide the fate of their country by freely allowing them to elect their leader without intimidation and coercion. Edited by Kiilu Damaris