A lobby group backing Raila Odinga's presidential candidature has lined up a series of activities in Nairobi's informal settlements to drum up support for the ODM leader. Baba Mashinani, launched in Nairobi in December last year, is seeking to preach Raila's message of hope in the slums. The patron of the group Teddy Mutu said the team will borrow heavily from Azimio La Umoja Movement's three main objectives; inclusivity, economic empowerment and an anti-corruption crusade. "We have activated all our youth networks in the city's informal settlements. We will be spearheading a campaign that has never been seen in this country. We will lock these areas from political scavengers who are busy selling empty promises to Kenyans," said Mutu, who manages garbage collecting groups in Nairobi. Already, thousands of youth involved in garbage collection in Nairobi are backing the economic empowerment agenda according to Mutu. "We will heavily rely on this kind of network to lock the city for Baba," he said. The leadership of Baba Mashinani is drawn from several outfits among them Jaoko Oburu Odinga, the co-chairman of Young Turks for the Handshake Alliance, Fred McJose, the chairman, Students and Young Professionals National Caucus and John Ole Ketora (ODM Youth League). HIT THE GROUND RUNNING Odinga said the group has already hit the ground running even as Raila takes a break from political events. The group has already visited Mathare, Kibra, Kangemi and Kawangware areas to campaign for the ODM leader. "We believe that economic empowerment for the young generation in this country can only be achieved in what the national anthem highlights; plenty be found within our borders," Odinga said at Young Turks for the Handshake Alliance offices in Lavington on Sunday. He added that they have express orders from the President and Raila, to preach hope to the youth. He added: "We were tasked to go around the country and bring together all the young people under the Handshake for peace, unity and economic prosperity" McJose said the young people of Kenya have decided they “must give a direction to the country.” "Our strategic team has crafted a 10-year roadmap that will ensure that the young people are economically empowered. We are already organised in a way that even by the time the new government comes into office, it will find us already on the move," he added. He said the strategy is clear and targets every youth in this country. McJose said already several professionals from diverse backgrounds have been dispatched and are talking to the young people across the country about what the new government will have in store for them. Edited by D Tarus