Kenyan Premier League leaders Kakamega Homeboyz dropped vital points in their tour of the capital after settling for a one-all draw with Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Monday. Gaetan Masha struck first for Homeboyz with a quarter of an hour to go but Rodgers Okumu scored an 88th-minute equaliser to deny the title-chasing boyz. Despite the draw, Homeboyz remain top of the table with 33 points — five better of second, third and fourth-placed Kariobangi Sharks, City Stars and KCB respectively. Meanwhile, Bandari head coach Andre Casa Mbungo expressed utter disappointment after his charges collapsed late to share spoils with Wazito at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. John Mwita broke the deadlock with a superb effort two minutes to the breather but Michael Owino hurled his rasping shot into the back of the net to spoil the party for the dockers in the dying minutes of the game. Mbungo believes his players rested on their laurels at a time it behooved them to step on the gas pedal. “We played well and we actually deserved to go back home with all the points but I believe we relaxed later in the encounter thinking we had already won the match,” said Mbungo. “What's important is that we have gleaned some vital lessons from today's outcome and we shall look to make the important amends before our next fixture,” he added. The Rwandan gaffer insists they still have a glorious opportunity to lay claim to the title at the end of the season given their top ten status in the league. “Any of the top ten teams stand an equal opportunity to bag the title. It's still too early to predict the winner, we still have a lot of games to play and the title could go any way. “We have a marvelous squad that possesses the capacity to decorate our cabinet with silverware or two and I believe they won't disappoint,” said Mbungo. Wazito head coach Mike Ambani extolled his charges for exhibiting great character in the encounter where they rallied from a goal down to squeeze out the imperative point. The tactician who took over the reigns at Wazito after Francis Kimanzi bolted in a huff a fortnight ago, was presiding over his second match after collecting maximum points against Vihiga Bullets last Wednesday. “We are definitely improving by the day and you'll be witnessing a lot more with time. It would be a big mistake for anyone to rule us out of contention. “However, our focus at the moment is on posting positive results in our subsequent outings to ensure we secure a decent finish,” said Ambani. Champions Tusker failed to impress at Bukhungu Stadium, where they shared spoils with hosts Vihiga Bullets in a barren draw.