Two students at Milimani Secondary near State House Nairobi were at the weekend arrested over a third fire incident there. The fire destroyed a dormitory and took almost an hour to contain. Police said the students were captured on CCTV footage staging the arson prompting their arrest. It was the third such incident to happen at the school. On January 7 and 9, the students tried to burn the dormitory in vain. Their plans were thwarted by the school administration. On January 9 up to eight beds were burnt down in the incident before the fire was contained. Six students were then arrested and later arraigned. On January 29, the fire broke out at about 6 pm burning down the students’ valuables. Police said no injury was reported in the incident but students said they lost property and valuables. A fire engine from the county government arrived there and managed to contain the spread. Some parents arrived at the school after learning about the fire. They were however informed all was well despite the destruction. It is the latest in a series of fire incidents that have affected more than 100 schools in the country in the last four months. The drive for the new wave is yet to be known as such incidents are common in schools when final exams are near. As part of efforts to address the issue, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha had suggested that teachers and prefects on duty be held culpable for school fires. Prof Magoha said in a number of fires reported across the country, teachers have been reporting they do not know the causes yet they are tasked with the day-to-day running of the institutions. He advised teachers to ensure that dormitories are inspected and locked each morning, and the learners' movements monitored. The CS advised learners to remain disciplined and warned that investigations would reveal the identities of those behind the fires. Their details, he added, will be included in a database that can be used against them in their entire career. Magoha said it was time to hold a national conversation on the issue of corporal punishment and urged parents to show more concern for their children.