Leaders in Uasin Gishu have demanded extensive dialogue between KDF and the 1,000 families living near Moi Barracks over a deadly row involving 5,000 acres. On Christmas Day, two people were shot dead on Kiplombe Nine Farms , which KDF says belongs to the bullet factory that is part of KDF installations. KDF was surveying the land, leading to a scuffle with the community, leading to the death and injuries. Residents apparently locked KDF officers in a school and others tried to rescue them. KDF had no official comment. Police in Eldoret and Ipoa are investigating the killing of the two people in the confrontation involving KDF, police and community members at Chebarus near Moi Barracks. Turbo MP Janet Kosgey, Governor Jackson Mandago and other county leaders have insisted that the disputed land belongs to the residents who have lived there for 50 years. “We will ensure justice for those who were shot and the community should be allowed to live on the land they own without interference from KDF," Mandago said. They have also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to urgently intervene in the land row. Mandago says the community has for more than  50 years. Mandago, the MP, other leaders and clerics joined for prayers with the families of  Joel Kibet, 53, and Eliud Menjo, 43, who lost their lives on Christmas Day. Mandago asked residents to allow the appointed committee to follow up on compensation. The county boss also said he is working closely with the committee from the nine farms and KDF to ensure residents are given the 5,339 acres hat had long been given to them and approved by the National Land Commission. KDF officers had gone to oversee surveying of the land on Christmas Day but residents resisted, leading to the scuffle, deaths and injuries. Mandago said the dispute over the Kiplombe Nine Farms was turning ugly and KDF wanted to take over the land from more than 1,000 families. He said they want the President to stop illegal intimidation, arrests and detentions of civilians who live on the land he claimed they fully and legally own as per records from KDF, the National Land Commission and other agencies. The leaders have insisted they want independent and proper investigations into the Christmas Day killings involving KDF officers who, they said, had gone to the area to illegally survey the community land. “We also demand an identification parade of the KDF and Kenya Ordinance Factories Corporation officials (KOFC) involved in the incident that led to the killing," Mandago said. He said Chief of Defense Forces Robert Kibochi should explain under which circumstances the KDF offices who are supposed to protect Kenyans from external aggression attacked and killed unarmed Kenyans. The Uasin Gishu leaders have asked the DPP, the National Commission on Human Rights and Ipoa to investigate the shootings so those found culpable are brought to book. The KDF, NLC and the surgery department must also be held liable for the killings and the injuries' caused during the incident, he said. Police in Eldoret have said they are investigating the killing of the two people in the confrontation involving KDF, police and community members. The two civilians were shot dead as the officers moved in to rescue their KDF colleagues who had been surrounded and locked up by residents in a school on the disputed land. The KDF officers, who were accompanied by police officers from Soy, said they tried to talk and urged citizens not to interfere but they ignored the warning, leading to the use of force, KDF officers said. (Edited by V. Graham)