The National Environment Management Authority has asked the public to give their views on the environmental impact likely to be caused by the rehabilitation of the 465km Longonot-Malaba metre gauge railway line. The rehabilitation works will be conducted by Kenya Railways and will traverse Nakuru, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Kakamega, Bungoma and Busia counties. Nema has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for the project. “The proponent, Kenya Railways proposes to rehabilitate 465km Longonot- Malaba section to facilitate the safe and efficient operation of this line. The Longonot- Malaba section railway line rehabilitation is located at the Rift Valley and Western,” Nema said in a gazette notice. According to regulation 21 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003, Nema) receives an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report for proposed projects from the proponents. The authority then invites public comments. The potential negative environmental impacts of the proposed project include solid waste generation, removal of the asbestos roof, noise and loss of vegetation. The mitigation measures during the construction and renovation phase include quantifying the building materials correctly to avoid wastage and having regular disposal of waste generated. The proponent said materials must be stored properly to avoid wastage by damage. It said materials will be reused and recycled where possible and wastes generated during the renovation and construction phase will be disposed of as stipulated in the EMCA (Waste Management) Regulations, 2006. To reduce noise, the proponent said low noise machinery will be used, ear muff will be given during the construction and properly maintained machines will be used. The proponent said noisy machines will be switched off when not in use and such noisy activities will be restricted to daytime. Other measures will include regular maintenance of machinery. The proponent said except to the extent necessary for establishing the operation site and carrying out the excavation works, vegetation shall not be removed, damaged or disturbed nor should any unauthorised cutting of vegetation take place. The proponent said sections of work completed will be vegetated progressively. The interval between clearing and vegetation should be kept to an absolute minimum. Nema has received an Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report another project proposed by Kenya Railways. Kenya Railways proposes to revitalise the 217 km Nakuru-Kisumu Metre Gauge Railway. The project involves the rehabilitation of  69.05 km Kisumu-Butere Mete Gauge Railway, the 77.8 km Gilgil Nyahururu and the construction of the new Kisumu Railway station. It will transverse through Nakuru, Kericho, Kisumu, Vihiga, Siaya and Kakamega, Nakuru, Nyandarua and Laikipia. The expected impacts include loss of vegetation, soil erosion, disruption of public utilities, air and noise pollution, Asbestos roof f removal among others as contained in the gazette notice. The government has been investing in the rehabilitation of meter-gauge railway lines. The Sh1.8 billion Nairobi-Nanyuki Meter Gauge Railway is complete. Edited by Kiilu Damaris