Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir is scrambling for the Luo vote bloc in Mombasa as the competition for the community’s support intensifies among the governor hopefuls. Nassir on Saturday met members of the community at Ronald Ngala Primary School, where the community issued a raft of demands from his administration, should he win the coveted governor seat. The Luo community are believed to be the third highest number of voters in Mombasa following the Mijikenda and Kamba communities. Governor hopefuls, especially those in ODM, including Nassir, businessman Suleiman Shahbal and Deputy Governor William Kingi also believe the community will overwhelmingly vote for Raila and that they will thus listen to him for a candidate choice in Mombasa. Among the demands, as listed by the delegation led by Charles Rambo, include a running mate from the community, for which they propose either Francis Thoya, a former county secretary and Millicent Odhiambo, a political activist. The delegation also demanded three county executive positions, three chief officer positions, the chief of staff position, two subcounty administrator positions, 10 ward administrator positions, among other others. The Rambo-led Luo delegation also demanded that Nassir supports Luo candidates in three constituencies, including Jomvu. The community, according to Rambo, also wants 10 ward seats, including Kongowea, Frere Town, Junda, Bamburi, Timbwani, Ziwa la Ng’ombe, Port Reitz, Mkomani, Changamwe and Mtopanga. Rambo also said ODM should nominate three MCAs from the community and have its members in the public service board and the community be given the director of inspectorate position. However, Nassir said his administration will be all inclusive. Nassir, careful not to antagonise other communities living in Mombasa, said the county is cosmopolitan and there needs to be a delicate balance. “Mombasa can only be Mombasa if it is for all of us together,” Nassir said. Mombasa is an economic destination where all residents need to feel a part part of, he said, adding that the first agenda is to grow the economy of the county. “To me, the best solution for Mombasa is to open up the county for everyone to do business. That can be achieved if we engage regularly,” Nassir said. Other governor hopefuls, including businessman Shahbal, Kingi, former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar, Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo have also faced demands from the Luo community living in Mombasa. However, there seems to be differences among members of the community since some are still undecided on who to support. The different governor hopefuls have had different delegations of the Luo community led by different people. On Wednesday, Vibrant Democratic Party leader and former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti held a meeting with a section of the Luo community members in a bid to unite them. The meeting at Railways Club followed a series of other meetings with different delegations of the community. Awiti, who is also eying the governor seat, wants to claim the vote bloc, estimated to command about 70,000 votes. The former Nyali MP said charity begins at home and that the Luo community in Mombasa must show an example and unite so as to speak with one voice. “For unity, we must first put our house in order. We are today declaring we have put aside our political differences as a community,” he said. “It would be easier to convince people which way to go if we show that we are united as a community.” On Saturday, Nassir said he follows in the footsteps of his ODM party leader Raila Odinga, who he described as the father of modern day democracy that embraces inclusivity. He asked Mombasa people to get out of the thinking that one community can help one win a seat. “Mombasa is cosmopolitan. Don’t ask for votes because you are from a certain community. I request to be elected not because of my tribe. But despite my tribe, which I’m proud of, I request to be elected because I can serve you wholeheartedly," Nassir said. “And that is the Mombasa we should all strive for.” He said his administration will have the face of Kenya in it and all people living in the county will feel ably represented. Raila, he said, is branded a project because he agreed to shake hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta so as to stop the bloodshed in the country. “My best political teacher is Raila Odinga. I have the best teacher in politics,” Nassir said. “If I am being called a project what will those given tenders worth billions of shillings called?” Nassir said in an apparent jibe at Shahbal. He said his late father former Mvita MP Shariff Nassir taught him loyalty and not opportunism. “I believe in loyalty whether things are good or bad. You stick to what you believe in. Not shift goal posts and jumping ship every time,”  he said. (edited by Amol Awuor)