There are many get-togethers and visits from/to old friends and family during. It’s a time for celebration, and there are a few things you could use to keep everyone’s spirits up (not named eggnog) without spending too much. Spice up your time with the group with fun activities that everyone will love while running on a budget. The best part is that you can use as many of these tips as possible to make things even merrier. Play online roulette Looking for family fun things to do? Try playing online roulette. The games are fun, and they give the real casino experience. You can play from the comfort of your living room with friends and family. If you guys want to make things interesting, you can wager real money and have the time of your lives from the comfort of your home. Holiday movie marathon This is a classic holiday activity, and it still works. Easy, fun, indoor, movies can keep everyone occupied for a long time with minimal spending. Hollywood has spent billions of Dollars making cheesy Christmas movies. Don’t let all that money go to waste. You could go Die Hard or Home Alone. Go to the park Another classic friend and family fun time activity. Going to the park for a walk or a picnic is an activity that will help kill boredom during the holidays. There are many family fun places like nature parks, amusement parks, etc. If there are kids involved, then try park activities. The kids stretch their legs, and the adults can join in the fun. A simple search for family fun attractions near me will give you numerous options. Karaoke Rent a karaoke machine and blow the roof off your living room. Karaokes are a fun and family-friendly activity sure to excite most people in the room. Even the kids can join in to belt some Christian tunes. Karaoke nights are guaranteed fun this Christmas season, and it costs next to nothing. Have a dinner party Nothing brings people together like food. Tap into that this Christmas season by hosting a dinner party. Keep things simple, nothing fancy. People sharing food and ambience is enough. Interesting conversations spark off all around the table. A good old-fashion dinner party is an easy way to do something fun with friends and family. You can add some other activities to it to make things more exciting. Organize games The cool part about this activity is that you can pair it with many other activities like a dinner party for example. Organize indoor games, and you can even film them for fun. The group can play card games, board games, video games, pool, darts, beer pong, tennis, etc. Games can be fun and exciting. You can even take a video camera to make some fun, lasting memories with friends and family. Go camping Depending on the people undertaking the trip, camping can be a great bonding experience for friends and family. Go on a small nature adventure and breathe in some fresh air. Take walks and long hikes with friends and create everlasting experiences. Find a camping site near you, get the stuff you need, and get some adventure. Go bowling Bowling is another family and friend-friendly activity. Get in competitive spirits at a bowling arena and have some fun. Mix and match partners to keep things fun and interesting at the bowling alley. Go on a scavenger hunt You can organize a scavenger hunt or pay to participate in one. A scavenger hunt is a fun group activity that will excite everyone. You can use personal clues and in-house jokes to spice up the hunt. Sip and paint Sipping wine and painting random stuff can be a fun and mellow way to enjoy an evening with the group. Let your creative spirits run wild. You can even give prizes for the best painting. It will be fun.