Many eligible pastoralist voters will miss the second phase of voter registration due to drought because they have migrated for water and pasture. Leaders called for a time extension and mobile registration centres to go where the voters are. Led by Nominated MCA Christine Lemein and land activist Meitamei Olol Dapash, they said many people would be locked out of the listing as most move around in search of water and pasture, more so during drought. “The dry spell has forced people to move to neighbouring counties and even Tanzania for water and pasture," Lemein said. She is also the ODM county deputy vice chairperson. They spoke to the Star separately. The region is suffering from successive seasons of little or no rain, so pastoralists must move from the usual voting registration areas. While urging residents to register to vote, Lemein also urged the electoral agency to introduce mobile registration centres, especially in pastoralist areas. “The main focus now is finding a source of livelihood, which is livestock. Most animals have died due to the drought," she said. The ODM legislator appealed to the electoral commission to consider extending the voter registration period in drought areas. “The number of voters being targeted in the exercise might be in vain and the electoral body should consider taking their registration clerks to where these pastoralists are,” Lemein said. Dapash petitioned the IEBC to deploy clerical officers to accompany pastoralists and register them to vote. “The drought is worsening and all indications are we shall miss the required target. We need  measures to ensure the people register as voters and exercise their constitutional mandate,” Dapash said. He said the worst-hit areas are the lower part of the vast county where drought is pushing residents away from registration centres. “We fear many people will not register as voters due to the biting drought. The government should consider supplying relief food to affected regions to motivate people to be registered as voters," Dapash said. The activist urged young people who recently got national identity cards to use them to register to vote. He said many times Kenyans complain about bad leaders  but this happens because they don't register and vote. (Edited by V. Graham)