Sunglasses have become an essential accessory, not only because they look good, but they protect your eyes from the damaging rays of the sun. This January heat requires a good set of sunglasses to protect your eyes from UV damage. It’s true, a great pair on sunnies can elevate your look, even if you are just wearing sweatpants and a t-shirt. The trick, of course is knowing what pair is right for you. Jackie Wairimu, a Sunglasses owner says, when finding the right pair, 2 things need to be kept in mind. “You want to find a pair that complements your face shape, the rule is, the shape of your glasses should be opposite of your face shape,” Wairimu says. A square face should go for a round frame while a round face should go for a rectangular shape which gives the illusion that your face is more angular than it is. “Long faces should go for glasses that don’t extend past the wide part of your face. Try sticking to frames that have a nearly 1:1 ratio on width to length,” she said. “If your chin if pointed or defined; the forehead is wider than your chin, go for rectangular glasses in order to balance out the chin to forehead ratio.” Apart from appearance, Wairimu says that good sunglasses should have a blockage of 99 to 100 percent of UVA and UVB rays “Always look for a label that says ‘100% protection against both UVA and UVB or ‘100% protection against UV 400.’” Wairimu says. In case one is driving, Wairimu says one should opt for grey tinted glasses instead of black, as the colour reduces brightness and glare. The cost of a sunglasses is not directly related to how sturdy it is and the level of protection it can provide for your eyes. “It’s important to factor in the price according to how much you’re willing to spend for sunglasses. Depending on your budget, you can go for luxury brands or more affordable labels as long as it is indicated,” Wairimu says. Another important feature to consider is that your glasses are scratch resistant. Before you purchase, ensure the glasses don’t create a wave of distortion as you hold them up to the light. “Instead of plastic lens, you may want to purchase polycarbonate lenses because they are more impact resistant because glass lenses can shatter on impact,” she said. Optometrists suggest wearing sunglasses and a hat whenever you have to step out, especially if you live in a tropical country or on a high elevation. Remember that a high price doesn't always guarantee good quality, but you can always get them checked by the optometrist