Mashed potatoes are also locally referred to as mukimo or irio in most areas of Kenya. Though the meal is widely recognized globally. The meal is a hearty combination of potatoes and pumpkin. Can be served as a side dish or a main meal as it is quite filling. The preparation method differs from the area or tribe you inquire from. Some people add baby corn or peas to the meal. Ingredients. Method. Add water in a cooking pot then add the diced pumpkin and bring them to boil till they soften. Ensure the water slightly covers the pumpkins so as to ensure they cook nicely without becoming soggy. Slice through with a knife to confirm if they’re ready then drain off excess water and set them aside on a plate. Shallow fry the onions under medium heat in olive oil, add grated carrots stir and cover for a while. Add the potatoes, salt then stir. Allow them to sit in the sufuria for a while then add water till the potatoes are slightly covered, stir then replace the lid and bring the meal to boil. Mix masala powder in a cup of warm water then pour into the cooking pot and replace the lid. Use a knife to slice through the potatoes to confirm if they’re ready. If ready, pour out any excess water then add parsley once you’ve removed the pot from the source of heat. Add the pumpkins then mash adds vinegar, a cup of milk (ensure it's warm)  and continue mashing till there are no visible lumps. Empty the contents into a serving dish and set it aside. Beef Stew Ingredients Method Add oil into a cooking pan, allow it to heat then add onions stir and cover them until they’re golden brown. Add tomatoes, stir then cover for a while until they’ve softened. Add the diced carrots, salt than beef. Stir and allow to cook over low heat. Add a cup of water and bring to boil over medium heat. Wait for the beef to semi-dry then add the chopped capsicum, parsley, crushed garlic and pepper, stir gently and add the Worcestershire sauce. Leave it for a few minutes then add one and a half cups of water and allow the meal to boiling, then turn off the heat. Empty the contents into a dish then proceed to serve both meals. Garnish accordingly and enjoy. 