Over 2,000 IDPs who fled their homes due to the recent Lamu attacks have received relief food and other humanitarian aid from the county government, Red Cross Society and well-wishers. 15 people were killed in the attacks and over 10 houses were torched by suspected al Shabaab militants between January 2 and 9. There are four IDP camps at the Witho trading centre, Shalom Academy School in Kibaoni, Juhudi and Holy Angels Primary Schools in Lamu West These camps have about 2,400 people according to the Lamu Red Cross office. Most of the IDPs are from Juhudi, Marafa, Salama, Mashogoni, Bobo-Sunkia and surrounding villages, all in Lamu West. The Shalom Academy School camp is the largest with over 250 families. The IDPs at Witho trading centre have to spend nights under trees as there are no schools or institutions to host them in the area. The IDPs are faced with challenges among them lack of food, water, medication, beddings, mosquito nets and toilets. Lamu Red Cross coordinator Kauthar Alwy however said most well-wishers who helped the IDPs had not considered a balanced diet. “Most are bringing flour and nothing else. We need to ensure that, we balance the food and ensure it's helpful,”  Kauthar said. The society provided mosquito nets and blankets to the IDPs at Witho, Juhudi and Holy Angel's camps. “Many are small kids, pregnant women and the elderly who are at risk of contracting malaria. We provided two mosquito nets and two blankets per household. We appeal for more help from well-wishers,” Kauthar said. The Red Cross provided water storage jerricans and special medical kits for pregnant women, children and the elderly. On Saturday, the Lamu county government donated assorted foodstuff including beans, sugar, tea leaves, clothing, and face masks to the IDP camps. Coast regional commissioner John Elungata and other top security officials visited the IDPs and asked them to vacate the camps and go back home. Elungata said peace had been restored in the affected villages and that security was adequate. He said leaving the camps will enable the government to plan well on a return-to-school formula for schools that have been closed because of the recent attacks. “We have deployed enough security officers to deal with the criminals. We are asking the displaced families to go back home. Lamu is safe and there is no reason for anyone to be living in a camp,” Elungata said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris