Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula has ruled out working with ODM leader Raila Odinga in the coming elections. Speaking over the weekend at Mukhweya village in Kabuchai constituency, the Bungoma senator said Raila can't be trusted. He said Raila betrayed him after he supported his presidential bid since 2013. "He betrayed me after I had stood with him for all those years. I can't support him again," Wetangula said. The Ford Kenya boss reiterated that Raila had been sending people to win his support but he had turned down the offer. "Even if he sends as many people as he can to convince me, he can't win my support again." He regretted that he made a mistake by working with someone who can't be trusted. The relationship between Wetang'ula and Raila started dwindling when he was ousted as the Senate minority leader and replaced by Siaya Senator James Orengo. The senator also believes that Raila and Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa were behind the coup which sought to dethrone him as Ford Kenya party leader. The National Super Alliance, under which Raila and Wetang'ula worked together, was officially dissolved last year. Nasa was formed in January 2017 comprising of Raila's ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper, Musalia Mudavadi's ANC, and Moses Wetangula's Ford-Kenya. In a letter dated August 26 and written to the leaders of the four constituent parties that formed the coalition, the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu informed them that the coalition has been officially dissolved. Among the issues that led to dissolution is the sharing of the coalition’s funds from the Political Parties Fund among the former affiliates. Wetang'ula also asked people from Western region to take advantage of the second and final voter registration to register as voters. "I am calling upon our people who have identity cards and have not registered as voters to please do so since this is the final exercise before the August general election," he said. The senator said it was sad that Western region has many residents who have not registered as voters. "We have been saying 2022, 2022 is now here with us and we want everyone to participate in the election by registering in large numbers and elect development-oriented leaders," he said. The senator said IEBC ought to have changed boundaries of constituencies and wards this year but because of the push and pull issues of BBI time was lost. -Edited by SKanyara