Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has hatched a new strategy to lock  ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Deputy President William Ruto's UDA out of Western. A rejuvenated Ruto, having wooed both Musalia and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula to his side in the presidential race, is making a huge charm offensive in Luhyaland. The DP is keen on slicing a sizable chunk of the vote-rich region in the August 8 General Election. The Luhya community is the second-most populous group after Kikuyus, with more than two million registered voters. Ruto’s forays got a major boost last week after he entered a deal with both Mudavadi and Wetang'ula with whom they traversed Kakamega and Bungoma counties on Friday. The new alliance is part of DP’s broader scheme to win Western and push Raila to the periphery of the region that has traditionally been his turf. Analyst Danstan Omari said Ruto's new catch are likely to deliver over 80 per cent of Western votes to the DP. “If there is the greatest revolution that William has done and given Baba a big body political blow is both Wetang'ula and Mudavadi going together, it is going to cause ripples,” he said. However, Raila has unleashed a two-pronged strategy to counter Ruto's gains and wrestle the region back to his grip. The ODM chief is determined to ensure that Mudavadi and Wetang'ula join Ruto with an empty basket, taking almost all their lieutenants to either ODM or DAP-K. DAP-K is allied to Raila's Azimio la Umoja movement. One scheme, insiders told the Star, is to allow DAP-K to field candidates in at least two counties where they will not face competition from other Azimio affiliates. In the recent days, the ODM boss has gone flat out wooing Mudavadi’s allies uncomfortable with joining Ruto to his Azimio movement. Five ANC legislators — Ayub Savula (Lugari), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Peter Nabulindo (Matungu) and Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), have parted ways with Mudavadi and announced they are supporting Raila. On Thursday night, the ODM leader met Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Bishop Titus Khamala (Lurambi) signalling another phase of defections. A source at Chungwa House confirmed to the Star that Raila will next week receive the duo to ODM. “They will be formally received by our party leader next week. The remaining Ford Kenya and ANC lawmakers will soon cross over, it is just a matter of time,” the source said. Before meeting Raila, the two were at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli’s Ildamat home in Kajiado county for a consultative meeting. Raila is also using new allies in the region to undo forays by Ruto. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Atwoli are some of the big guns leading Raila’s vote hunt in the region. National Assembly Chief Whip Emmanuel Wangwe, who recently dumped Jubilee for ODM is also in Raila’s camp. Speaking to the Star, Omari dismissed Raila’s strategies claiming the ODM leader is doing catch-up in his once stronghold, insisting that his new team will translate to nothing on August 9. “The kingpin of Western politics is determined by the population census. In the last census, out of the 17 Luhya subtribes, Bukusus were 1.1 million and the second-largest subtribe was Maragoli with 300,000,” Omari said on the phone. “The biggest catch for Ruto is Wetang'ula not Mudavadi, Raila wants to use Bukusus through CS Wamalwa, they will have no say when Wetang'ula moves to the side of Deputy President.” Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito however said the ANC boss will not add value to DP’s camp describing him a sell-out and luggage with no winning strategy. “Mudavadi is a luggage, we will not allow Luhya community to be sold to the highest bidder. We cannot be bought like mandazi,” Kizito said. Edited by A.N