Nyeri county teachers are ready for this year’s gubernatorial contest if the race is a battle of professionals, Nyeri Knut executive secretary Mathenge Wanjau has said. Wanjau told the Star on Monday that Nyeri has more than 10,000 teachers in both primary and secondary schools, and that they are ready to mobilise their families and even resources to ensure Governor Mutahi Kahiga retains the seat. Kahiga is a teacher by profession and served as Nyeri branch Knut executive secretary until 2017 general election when he left to become Wahome Gakuru’s running mate. He rose to be governor following the death of Gakuru on November 7, 2017, in a road accident. The Nyeri governor seat has attracted professionals who include Senator Ephraim Maina (engineer), Peter Munyiri (economist) and Thuo Mathenge (industrialist), among others. “My fellow teachers, we must also be ready to wake up very early and vote in one of our own,” Wanjau said. He added there are indications that the Nyeri governor race could be a tough contest of professionals, some who have already declared their candidature. “On behalf of all teachers of Nyeri county, we are saying that we are supporting his (Kahiga’s) reelection as the governor,” he said. Teachers, Wanjau said, are satisfied with Kahiga’s performance as governor and will come out in large numbers to support him. Wanjau said since Kahiga took over, Nyeri residents have seen tremendous growth in all sectors of the economy. “Kahiga is a testimony enough of what a teacher can do,” he said. The county chief was one time the Sacco's supervisory committee chairman. He called on all teachers to rally behind Kahiga and vote for him for a second term for the posterity of the county. “We shall all come out, support and vote him back to the office of the governor of Nyeri county in massive numbers,” Wanjau said. During Newfortis Sacco annual general meeting at Nyamachaki Primary School in Nyeri town on Saturday, Kahiga, who was the chief guest, highlighted the achievements of his government. The Sacco with 17,720 members, was founded in 1976 by teachers and was known as Nyeri Teachers Sacco before rebranding in 2015 and opening doors for other professionals. He listed his achievements which include the construction of the over Sh600 million Nyeri main bus terminus, building of a Sh350 million level four hospital in Kieni East and upgrading of roads. Others are promoting value addition in the agriculture sector and empowering small-scale entrepreneurs thus creating employment for the youth, among other achievements. Kahiga told the members to support his re-election on August 9 this year, saying he is the teachers’ candidate. The governor said all other professionals, including economists, doctors and engineers start their journey in teachers' hands hence the need to respect teachers. He said he has done a sterling job by restoring the dignity of Nyeri which always ranked last during the previous regimes. This, he said, has been achieved through hard work and sustained transparency and accountability. He asked the teachers to be his agents and tell people what his government has achieved without speaking ill of others.  (edited by Amol Awuor)