A police constable found guilty eight years ago with unlawful use of a vehicle, which was an exhibit, may be promoted if the National Police Service implements the advice of a judge. While setting aside the sentence against the officer, Justice Grace Nzioka ruled that the Director of Public Prosecutions did not do their job properly. Constable Samuel Omayio ought to have been charged alongside his then boss who was the officer in charge of crime at Ngong' police station. Justice Nzioka argued that the two should have been charged together because the OCS was also negligent in his duties but he was let off the hook. “If the said chief inspector has since been promoted, then the constable (Omayio) ought to rightfully be promoted as well,” the court said. Omayio, it was alleged, unlawfully released robbery suspects from the police station and used the vehicle stolen during the robbery for his personal use. Speaking to the Star after the judgement, Omayio said justice has finally been served and he was happy that the court had acquitted him. He said the case had taken a toll on him and he wanted to get justice because he knew that he was innocent. Through his lawyer, Danstan Omari, Omayio said since he is now acquitted he will pursue the issue of promotion because he has lost eight years of his career. Omayio was found guilty of unlawful use of a motor vehicle in 2018 by a magistrate’s court. Justice Nzioka on Friday set aside the judgment of the lower court that found Omayio  guilty. The judge said that there was inadequate evidence to prove the existence of the said motor vehicle and that it was unlawfully driven by Omayio. The court further added that the lower court relied on the evidence of the chief inspector against Omayio in convicting him yet his testimony is not believable. The chief inspector had testified that Omayio released robbery with violence suspects from the police station, claiming he was misled by his junior officer on what had transpired. Judge Nzioka wondered how Omayio who was a police constable could mislead the chief inspector who held the rank of Inspector of Police. “How is it that the constable released the suspects of robbery with violence, failed to book the vehicle recovered in OB [Occurence Book] as an exhibit and be in possession of the car keys to ignite the car daily?” the judge said. The court said it had come across disciplinary proceedings against the said inspector, which said that he was extremely negligent and was not misled by Omayio as he had alleged. Justice Nzioka said the DPP should have done their job properly and charged the chief inspector alongside Omayio. She further said that the burden of proof of a crime lies with the prosecution and they have the primary duty to prove that the offence occurred. The judge said that the state had the duty to prove that Omayio used the vehicle unlawfully which meant without authority, and especially show the court that he actually drove the car. Justice Nzioka said that from the evidence there was no proof of the existence of the said vehicle and no witness was brought to testify that Omayio drove the car. The court was told that the owner of the alleged vehicle died from the alleged robbery so he could not testify meaning there was no evidence to show that the vehicle even existed. The magistrates court had found him guilty of the offence and ordered him to pay Sh 10,000 fine failure to which he was to serve 1 month in jail. (edited by Amol Awuor)