Manchester United forward Jesse Lingard fears his January move to Newcastle is set to collapse because of the financial demands of the Old Trafford club. United will only sanction a total package in excess of £15m for the 29-year-old, whose contract runs out at the end of the season. The deal includes a £12m payment to United should Newcastle stay up. Lingard feels the sums are excessive and is dismayed at the situation. With the transfer window due to close on Monday evening, BBC Sport has been told Lingard feels United’s stance is ruining his chance of getting a move that would allow him to play regular football. He feels this shows a lack of respect to a player who has been with the club for 21 years. Lingard spoke to interim manager Ralf Rangnick about his situation earlier this week and was told by the German he would be released. However, he feels United’s desire to make more revenue out of Newcastle’s plight at the foot of the league is coming ahead of his wishes. After a successful loan spell at West Ham last season, Lingard was told by then-manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer he would get more chances this season. Those did not materialise and Lingard’s situation has not improved since Rangnick replaced the Norwegian on an interim basis last month. He did start the dead-rubber Champions League group stage draw with Young Boys at Old Trafford but has since made just two late substitute appearances against Aston Villa, totalling five minutes. He has been an unused substitute on four occasions, including the Premier League win against West Ham at the weekend. Lingard feels if he is not allowed to leave, he will spend the remainder of the season on the bench. Lingard is currently in Dubai with United team-mate Marcus Rashford, doing some warm weather training. After just missing out on selection for Euro 2020, Lingard wants to give himself the best possible chance of making Gareth Southgate’s squad for the World Cup in Qatar. The Premier League winter transfer window closes on Monday.