Former Police IG Joseph Boinnet has confirmed he will run for Elgeyo Marakwet governorship to succeed Alex Tolgos, who is completing his second and final term. Boinnet is currently the Tourism Chief Administrative Secretary. For a month, he has been laying the ground for his entry into politics  in the county dominated by the Marakwet and the Keiyo subtribes of the Kalenjin community. The  former IG has branded several organisations to carry out voter mobilisation. Boinnet said he would make a formal announcement in the next few days. He has several advantages, including his long service as a civil servant. Before he became IG, he served in the National Intelligence Service. He holds a degree in International Studies and Diplomacy from the Washington International University. Two weeks ago, Boinnet attended a meeting of the Keiyo Elders Council, which is seeking negotiated democracy so the two communities can share top county seats on August 9. The elders want to avoid a repeat of last year, where all the top county seats went to the Marakwet community, with Tolgos as governor, Kipchumba Murkomen as senator and Jane Chebaibai as Woman Rep. Boinnet advised the elders that the leadership was for the entire county and not either of the communities. The Keiyo community lost out in the last elections because it had many aspirants whom Tolgos defeated in the Jubilee primaries. This year the two communities have produced several aspirants. Those from the Keiyo side and are running through the UDA party include Boinnet, Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich, former Keiyo South MP Jackson Kiptanui and Dr Elizabeth Keitany. Also from the Keiyo side, Anthony Chelimo, who will be vying through the Vision Party, which was formally associated with former Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott (deceased). “I will be in the race and will face off with others seeking the same through UDA,” Chelimo said. He is the  leader of the Vision Party. Those from the Marakwet side include former principal of the Eldoret Polytechnic Josphat Sawe, Dr Joyce Jepkorir and businessman Sammy Tangus. Boinnet confirmed to the Star he will be in the race. He is planning to quit government ahead of the February 9 IEBC deadline for civil servants joining politics to quit. PS for Environment Dr Chris Kiptoo says he is still consulting widely on his possible run for the seat. All aspirants are engaged in intense door-to-door campaigns as they prepare  for gruelling UDA primaries in April. Governor Tolgos is considering vying for the Senate seat in the county. The move could spark a fierce battle between him and Murkomen, who is a close ally of DP William Ruto. (Edited by V. Graham)