The reverse fixture between AFC Leopards and Mathare United headline the Kenyan Premier League matches as the topflight championship enters the second half of the season this weekend. Ingwe and the Slum Boys are set to renew rivalry at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday, three days after they clashed in a tension-filled encounter at Nyayo Stadium that ended 3-1 in favour of Leopards. Whereas Leopards are 14th on the log with 17 points, Mathare sitsecond from bottom with a paltry seven points. After settling for a one-all draw in another tense midweek encounter at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday, record champions Gor Mahia and Bidco United face off in another return clash on Sunday. A win for K'Ogalo might fire them to second. They are currently third with 26 points, six adrift of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz and behind second-placed Nairobi City Stars. On the other hand, Bidco are 12th with 18 points. Kariobangi Sharks are all set to settle scores with Sofapaka at Moi Stadium Kasarani. Whereas Sharks are fifth with 25 points, Sofapaka are 10th with 20 points. KCB, who are fourth with 26 points, host Posta Rangers (seventh with 23 points) at Utalii Grounds on Sunday. High-riding debutants, Talanta, will flex muscles with Nzoia Sugar at Kasarani Annex on Sunday. Talanta were the better team when the two sides met at Sudi Stadium in Bungoma last Wednesday, where they won 3-2. Talanta are currently eighth on the log with 23 points while Nzoia are 16th with nine. Ulinzi Stars and debutants Kenya Police renew their rivalry in another mouthwatering clash that could produce a lot of fireworks, pomp and colour. The two sides met for the first time in history at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday where they battled to a one-all draw. At position nine with 20 points, Police are ahead of Ulinzi, who are 13th with 17. Leaders Kakamega Homeboyz will travel all the way to Nairobi for the top-two return clash against Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Monday. Bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets host champions Tusker at Bukhungu on the same day. Tusker are yet to prove their mettle as possible title contenders given their lackadaisical performance that has left them rooted in the middle of the table at position 11 with 19 points. Wazito host Bandari at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Monday.