Five family members who were tragically killed in a road accident on Christmas Day at the Engwata area in Mackinnon near Voi will be buried this Friday in Nyakegogi in Sameta sub-county, Kisii County. Ronald Bundi, his wife Veronica Ogake and three daughters; Marion Bundi, Natalie Bundi and Claire Bundi died on the spot after their vehicle collided head-on with another vehicle as they were travelling home on that day. They had left Mombasa on the morning of Christmas Day to celebrate the festive season in Kisii before the tragic accident happened. The five bodies are being preserved at the Jocham Hospital mortuary. Two little boys; Mike Bundi and Venand Bundi survived the crash. They were rushed to Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital for treatment. According to friends and close family members, Bundi was a civil engineering contractor working at the South Coast. In a previous interview, a close family friend Philip Kwenya told reporters that Bundi’s family use to travel to Kisii every Christmas week for the holidays. “We were together on Christmas eve. They usually travel home for Christmas and this loss is tragic to all of us. We had so many plans together,” said Kwenya. Family members have been meeting at their home in Kisimani Enclave and at St Francis of Assisi Customs Parish church in Nyali for the burial arrangements. Benta Dola, a treasurer of the burial committee, confirmed that a requiem mass will be held today (Wednesday) at St Francis of Assisi Customs Parish in Nyali at 11 am. "Yes, we have been having meetings. Tomorrow, (Wednesday) we will have a requiem mass," she said. On Thursday, according to the relatives, the cortege will leave Jocham mortuary for an overnight stay before being laid to rest on Friday. Marion, who was a student at Star of the Sea High School, was the first-born daughter of the Bundis, Natalie was second-born and a pupil at Loreto Convent Mombasa, and Claire was the fourth-born daughter and a pupil at SOS Herman Primary School. Their classmates had described them as friendly and loving.