Four people have been killed by bandits in Baringo since December last year. On Friday, the bandits ambushed and killed Stephen Kwonyike in Lamaiwe, Baringo South. "The victim was riding his motorbike when he bumped onto the bandits at around noon. They stopped him and killed him on the spot," Marigat OCPD David Too said on Sunday. He said the man from Loruk in Baringo North was on his way to check his farm in Mochongoi. Too said after killing Kwonyike, the bandits set his body and his motorbike on fire. They then fled towards Tiaty subcounty. "We cannot tell how the man was killed, whether by bullet, strangled or stabbed with a knife because his body was burnt beyond recognition," he said. The police boss said the bandits also torched four houses. On January 7, bandits attacked Kisumet village in Bartabwa, Baringo North, and killed Kipkenei Kimurio, 65. The man was attacked as he cooked his evening meal. On January 4, bandits attacked Yatia in the same subcounty, killing herder Vincent Tuwit, 24. On December 11 last year, AP officer David Omondi was shot dead in Chepkesin, Baringo North. He was with his colleagues on a routine security patrol. Tension is high in Baringo North and South as hundreds of residents were forced to flee their homes. "We are urging our people to remain calm as the government puts in place measures to restore peace in the affected areas," Too said. He said efforts to nab the killers have been unsuccessful owing to the rough terrain, poor roads and poor communication network in the area. Too said enough security officers have been deployed to the area and are combing the bushes to smoke out the bandits. Learning disrupted Learning has been disrupted for more than 2,000 pupils after 12 schools were shut in Baringo. Chepkesin, Kisumet, Chepkew and Kapng’etio primary schools were shut completely, while Toboroi, Kapturo, Chemoe, Yatya, Kagir, Ng’aratuko and Loruk operate partially. John Kandagor, a resident of Bartabwa and a teacher, on Friday pleaded with the government to intervene. “I'm appealing to the government to address the situation urgently before all the schools are closed. If this happens, then how will teachers work to get paid? They will automatically be rendered jobless,” Kandagor said. The banditry menace has persisted since 2005. It is believed more than 6,000 illegal guns are in the hands of civilians in North Rift. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo has called on the government to recall the NPRs and compensate the attack victims. “The government should stop watching helplessly as our people are being massacred and rendered homeless,” Cheptumo said. Edited by A.N