Commonwealth Games and the African Youth Games will be high on the Ministry of Sports' agenda this year, according to Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed. The Commonwealth Games are scheduled for July 28 to August 8 while the African Youth Games are from August 29 to September 7. The Cabinet Secretary, Amb. Dr. Amina Mohamed met the members of the newly elected NOCK office at a consultative meeting to get a brief of their programs and plan. The CS assured Nock of support from the government and directed that all the training programs and qualification competitions start immediately. She asked Nock officials to draw from the lessons of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics to ensure they build on the good performance areas and drastically improve on any areas the country may have had challenges or management gaps. “I would like to start by congratulating the new office led by NOC-K President Dr. Paul Tergat, who has worked with me and my ministry over the past four years. We have shared the same vision and it is quite clear the team has the confidence to take Kenyan to another level,” the CS  said. Amina also backed the new office to deliver on their mandate and assured them of her support. “This year is going to be a very busy year, especially for young athletes. Last year, we were ranked top in Africa in the Olympics with an amazing bevy of medals.  We hosted the World U20 Athletics event at Kasarani and Kenya emerged top. We also hosted the Continental Tour and the World Safari Rally which was voted the best in 2021,” she observed. Amina noted that Nock's Sports Transformation Agenda 2022 has been developed under an elaborate strategic direction that will inform and drive the delivery of key programs and sports events between 2022 and  2024. Tergat thanked the Sports Cabinet Secretary for her support. “Going forward, we want to ensure all sports federations are punching above their weight not only to participate in major events but also win medals as we seek to propel the country to higher heights.” The Nock executive was represented by Tergat, second deputy president Waithaka Kioni, secretary-general Francis Mutuku, and treasurer Eliud Kariuki.