Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has asked DCI boss George Kinoti to investigate claims made by businessman Stanely Livondo on Saturday in Thika. Without evidence, Livondo claimed that a person he did not name tried to assassinate President Uhuru Kenyatta twice. The controversial politician also known as Mr Money Bags further alleged that both attempts involved aeroplanes that the president was using. He spoke at the thanksgiving ceremony for Kuria on Saturday in Thika Town. “You have a friend, who attempted to crash your plane twice, will you forgive him?  The first attempt was when President Uhuru Kenyatta was leaving Kisumu and the second attempt was when he was going to the US through Dubai and he had to make a detour,” Livondo said. On Sunday, Kuria said he takes responsibility for what he termed as a reckless statement. “As the convener of the thanksgiving prayer meeting in Thika, I may not be responsible for what speakers said, but it was my meeting, and I have to take responsibility," he said. “I have today requested DCI boss George Kinoti to arrest Stanley Livondo following his reckless statement." A source aware of both incidents termed Livondo’s claims as far fetched. “What I know happened in both incidents is not what he said. Unless he is referring to different incidents,” said the official. The official referred to the 2015 incident when the presidential plane heading to the US via Dubai flew back to Kenya. He said that the incident was because of a misunderstanding between two countries. “There was a problem in Yemen and then the Ethiopian authorities rerouted the plane which was then headed to Somalia or Eretria,” the official recalled. Kenya then sent a protest note to Ethiopia over the aborted trip. The president's jet turned back after Ethiopian authorities advised the pilot to change the flight course in a bid to avoid the Yemen airspace. The jet turned back to Nairobi after Ethiopian air controllers advised them to reroute. The presidential jet flew back to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport four hours after it had taken off. Although initial reports had indicated that it had crossed the Kenyan-Ethiopia border almost 40 minutes later and headed for Eritrea, which was the safe route given the turmoil in Yemen, the officials clarified that Kenyatta's jet returned from Somalia. The then foreign affairs PS Karanja Kibicho said the President's pilot had two options; to return or land for refuelling. The pilot chose to fly back since landing a presidential jet in a foreign country requires the pilot to follow a strict protocol. The new route could have seen the President's plane enter Saudi Arabia airspace on its way to Dubai through Somalia and Djibouti. In the Kisumu incident in 2019, the president and Opposition leader Raila Odinga breached protocol and delayed the flight by more than four hours as they toured Kisumu. Kenyatta changed his mind about boarding his jet at the Kisumu International Airport at the eleventh hour and instead accompanied Raila on a tour of Kisumu town. He later left for Nairobi. On Sunday, a senior official said they were analyzing Livondo’s claims before they decide the way forward.