Kwale county security team and education stakeholders have warned school heads against cheating ahead of the national exams set to begin Monday. The county commissioner Gideon Oyagi said any principal who will be found helping students to engage in exam irregularities shall face the full force of the law. "Let me talk to the school heads because that is where the problem arises from. Don't be tempted in any manner to assist candidates to cheat in the exams," he said. Oyagi told teachers and supervisors to execute their roles as per the outlined Kenya National Examination Centre guidelines and regulations. He said it is the responsibility of the principals and those bestowed with the supervision mandate to ensure exams are conducted freely and fairly. The administrator urged the stakeholders to work in close cooperation to make the exercise of the national tests a successful one. The exams for the KCSE candidates are set to begin Monday while  KCPE starts on March 7. In Kwale a total of 35,054 candidates shall sit for the national exams: 23, 375 for KCPE and 8, 679 KCSE. Oyagi told the principals that they should not be the cause of the examination leaks, warning them of stern actions once found. "Just follow the provided rules." The administrator said they will provide enough security to man the examination centres and enhance the safety of the students. The region has prepared about 464 examination centres for KCPE and 103 KCSE. Oyagi said the school heads should not compromise the police officers deployed to provide security. There are cases where teachers corrupt officers to allow candidates to cheat. He warned both the officers and headmasters that if found engaging in exam malpractice, the law will take its course. Oyagi said there was need for teachers to keep off from schools if not on duty during the exams to curb examination cheating. Parents were also told to minimise school visits because they won't be allowed to be in school unless required. The administrator said that in the previous years, there have been cases of students sneaking phones into the examination rooms jeopardising the credibility of the exams. Oyagi further said school principals should not hire teachers as cooks and watchmen to commit irregularities. In matter of transport, Oyagi said enough vehicles will be dispatched to help in the transportation of the examination materials, security officers and supervisors to and from the exams centres on time. County director of education Martin Cheruiyot said they have mobilised sufficient resources to ensure the exams start and are completed smoothly. Cheruiyot said the Covid-19 protocols will be observed to curb the spread of the virus and enhance the safety of both candidates and the invigilators. He said in case of poor weather, appropriate measures are in place to ensure the national tests go uninterrupted. "We know the experts have predicted that we might have heavy rains, but that is nothing to worry about because everything is in order," he said. Cheruiyot said he will take action against the supervisors who will violate the examination rules. He said that in the past exams, some invigilators were found sleeping amid exams, with others abandoning their posts.  (edited by Amol Awuor)