Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop imposing a president on Kenyans. He said voters have the right to elect a leader of their choice come August 9. The MP spoke on Tuesday at Cardinal Otunga Technical Training Institute in his constituency when he disbursed Sh30 million to universities, middle-level colleges and high schools students. Mabonga said Uhuru is supporting ODM boss Raila Odinga instead of giving Kenyans a chance to decide his successor. “Out of all the presidents that have led this country we have never experienced a president deciding who to replace him. I ask Uhuru to allow Kenyans to elect the president of their choice,” he said. The first-term MP also said his opponents in the Bumula constituency should avoid inciting residents. He said the aspirants should instead tell electorates what they will do for them if given the chance to serve as MP. “Those seeking to unseat me in the forthcoming elections should come here and show you what they have done for this constituency. "Politics is not about shouting and accusing others in funerals and talking ill about opponents,” Mabonga said. The Tanga Tanga MP said that the newly formed DAP-K party in Western was Uhuru’s project to divide Luhya votes for Raila to get support from the region. “If you are keen on Kenyan politics, you will realise that State House has formed new political parties in every region that has declared support for Raila’s bid. "It is a strategy to woo regions to support Raila because if they could have asked them to join ODM directly no one could have joined,” he said. Mabonga also drummed support for Deputy President William Ruto saying that it’s only Ruto that has an agenda to change the economy of the country. He said that the DP has supported many businesses in Bumula and Bungoma county at large. “Our main aim as Kenya Kwanza after we take over the leadership of this country is to empower small business operators and ensure that youths get employed,” Mabonga said. The legislator said Uhuru has failed the country, attributing the handshake to derailed developments in Western. “Please this time around let’s ask aspirants who come here to seek for votes what they have done for this region. "If Uhuru comes here today be bold and ask him what is happening with our industries; Nzoia Sugar Company, ginnery and Pan Paper in Webuye. If they are up and running then accept what he will tell you,” he said. Mabonga said the state should revisit and change the formula that is used in the disbursement of bursaries in the 290 constituencies. He said some constituencies are too small yet they receive equal amounts with others. “It will be wise If the state can change the allocation formula so that bigger constituencies can get a higher amount of funds,” he added. The legislator said his constituency has over 150 public schools that need funding. Bumula subcounty deputy county commissioner Hadia Salim said schools should stick to the examination rules to ensure that no student is caught cheating. “National examination is set to start next week. I want to ask school heads to ensure that no exam irregularity is reported from my area of jurisdiction,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)