The four-member Kenya team are officially out of the Magical Kenya Ladies Open (MKLO) following the completion of Day Two play at the Vipingo Ridge Baobab course on Friday. Mercy Nyanchama repeated a round of 7 over par 79 to close Day Two play with 14 over par 158. She missed the cut after she tied for 74th with eight players. Nyanchama shot 41 in the front nine and 38 in the back nine for a day's total of 79. She made two birdies on the par 4 third and par 4 13th, parred holes 2, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 18 before dropping shots on the rest of the holes including the par 4 7th where she shot a double bogey. Kitale club’s Naomi Wafula ended her campaign on a cumulative total of 20 over par 164 to kiss the PGA accredited Vipingo course goodbye. Like Nyanchama, Wafula missed the cut on settling for joint 90th with Marion Duvernay of France. Nandi Bear’s Faith Chemutai and Kenya’s sole professional Bhavi Shah also exited the tournament with disappointing +35 and +34 scores. Swede Linnea Strom maintained her lead despite a round of 1 over par 73. She now leads the pack with a gross total of 3 under par 141. Nuria Iturrioz is placed second on level par 144 followed by Germany's Sophie Hausmann with a total of 1 over par 145. Meanwhile, monsoon winds and firm greens (occasioned by the current dry weather) continue to play out on unimpressive scores. For the second day running, the big chunk of the field has had to contend with figures devoid of under-par scores. Vipingo Ridge’s Head of Marketing Rachel Drew attributed the challenge to the relatively predictable monsoon 'trade winds' that have traditionally been an integral part of coastal life for years. “In Kenya, we experience two wind seasons per year which add up to the challenge in the course. The Kaskazi (N/NE trade wind) blows from mid-December until mid of March whilst the Kuzi (S/SE trade wind) blows from June until mid-September. The Kaskazi wind is a very reliable and steady wind with an average wind speed of 15-20 knots,” Drew said. The tournament is sponsored by Johnny Walker, KCB Bank, Centum, Safaricom and Magical Kenya. 