Supporters of two ODM governor aspirants almost engaged in a fistfight in Kilifi during a delegates meeting organised to sensitise candidates, on the upcoming party primaries. Those of county assembly speaker Jimmy Kahindi and immediate former devolution CAS Gideon Munga'ro, clashed after both parties cheered their candidates at the venue in Mkwajuni hotel. The Friday meeting hosted over 1,000 delegates and aspirants including Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi. Saburi has also declared interest in the top county seat. Both candidates arrived separately backed by their supporters. Mung’aro arrived first, almost the same time Kilifi ODM chairman Teddy Mwambire came in. Mung’aro went round greeting his supporters as Kahindi arrived with his team who accompanied and cheered him to the VIP sitting area. During this time the other group which had camped on the other side of the dais also began cheering, in solidarity with their candidate. The cheering squads started pushing each other before police arrived and separated the two groups to different sides. No one was injured. Mwambire also intervened and called all the legislators and the gubernatorial aspirants on the dais to handle the situation. He urged the supporters to behave and cool down. Kilifi Woman Representative Gertrude Mbeyu who was the MC urged the youths to avoid fighting for politicians who dine together. The ODM officials told the aspirants about the party nomination rules, payment modes to enable them to prepare early Mwambire who was chairing the meeting said by next week, there would be five gubernatorial aspirants in the ODM party, in the county. He said former assistant minister Francis Baya had hinted at joining the gubernatorial race on an ODM ticket. He thanked Kahindi for funding the delegates' meeting and assured all aspirants that nominations would be free and fair. The speaker said he organised the meeting to ensure they revive the party and put in fresh energy after the exit of Governor Amason Kingi portrayed the party had lost popularity. Kahindi said they held a meeting with Raila Odinga and agreed that there was a need to come together to revive the party. “We are starting this journey together, let's build the party and ensure we support Raila to becoming the fifth president,” he said. Kahindi told the delegates they will hit the ground to ensure ODM moves forward, there will be one flagbearer of the governor seat in ODM, Kilifi. Mung’aro said anyone is free to contest for the seat and urged supporters to desist from fighting. The former CAS said his track record is straight, he had delivered while serving in different capacities and has the expertise to take Kilifi forward. He said he would expose corrupt county officials and their rogue deals. Others present included MPs Ken Chonga (Kilifi South) Paul Katana  (Kaloleni), his Rabai counterpart Wiliam Kamoti, Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and some MCAs. Edited by Kiilu Damaris