Bandari team manager Wilson Obungu says he is not aware whether head coach Casa Mbungo has left the Kenyan Premier League club. Speaking exclusively to the Star on Sunday, Obungu admitted to having stumbled upon the information on social media, adding he was still in the process of seeking clarity from the board. “Actually, Mbungo was even in charge of our friendly match yesterday (Saturday). I saw him in good spirits and he didn't give any hint he could be on his way out,” said Obungu. “The best thing would be to await official communication from the club's board. We shall be having a meeting on Monday after training and it's only until then that we can be in a position to clear the air, that is if there exist any changes.” Assistant coach Antony Kimani also denied knowledge of Mbungo's departure. Kimani said it would be wise to wait for official communication. “Honestly, I'm not in a position to comment on the matter at the moment. I also came to learn about it through social media. Let's wait for official communication from the board,” said Kimani. After joining the club on January 4, 2021, the 51-year-old Rwandan tactician has increasingly found himself isolated in recent days. Signs that all did not well become evident when he was booed off by enraged fans after his charges crushed 2-0 to Tusker at Mbaraki Stadium a fortnight ago. Meanwhile, Obungu conceded that the growing list of injuries had severely negated their title charge this season, Obungu said it was not a solid reason to justify the club's dwindling fortunes in the league. “The main problem so far is that our key players are out with serious injuries. For instance, Whyvonne Isuza has not featured in the last four matches. Faraj Ominde dislocated his shoulder and the absence of Keegan Ndemi has made our striking force blunt,” said Obungu. “However, I don't think it would be rational to say our poor run in the recent fixtures can entirely be attributed to their absence. We have 28 other players in the squad who can easily step into their shoes. I feel the problem lies deeper.” That notwithstanding, Obungu continues to hold on to the conviction that they can still shake off the setback and run away with the title. After starting the season on a high and cementing a slot in the top four, the dockers have uneventfully slumped to eighth on the log with 26 points. “If you look at the gap between us and Kakamega Homeboyz, you'll notice we are only 11 points adrift. We only need to press the right button to put ourselves on course for the title,” said Obungu.