Comedian Mulamwah says the reason his relationship with Carrol Sonie ended was she had high financial expectations. Speaking to Dr Ofwekene, the father of one said Sonie wanted him to spend on things that did not make sense to him. "Living in a Sh9,000 house does not mean I don’t have money. I have over a million, but it does not also make sense when you tell me to drink Sh4,000," he said. "I come from a place where money is valued. You cannot convince me to [spend] thousands on a night out, yet Sh1,000 can push my grandma two weeks." Mulamwah said Sonie chose to get the stuff he refused to buy her from someone else, so he decided to call it quits. By press time she had not picked calls for comment or responded to SMS. Asked whether he thought his ex regretted the part she played in their relationship breakdown, he said she was not coerced to cheat. "I don't know. I don't know. She shouldn't regret," he said. "She went into it knowing I was there. It's a decision she made and I believe she should be happy. I tried as much as possible to be happy and forgive her but when I remembered that I couldn't do something for her that someone else could, I felt bad. "I told myself that that person should continue doing it for her. So I went back to the drawing board and decided to make something for myself." In one of her videos, Sonie said, "Someone told me 'this man has been cheating on you'. Nilikuwa nampenda sana and ukiniambia he is cheating, nilikuwa nafeel like unamchomea (I was madly in love with him and after I was told he cheated on me, I didn't believe it." The comedian, who is also a trained nurse, was asked to respond to allegations that Sonie's daughter wasn't his. "Are you 100 per cent sure that she is your daughter?" Ofweneke asked. Mulamwah said he had no doubt the child was his. "I am sure. This is my baby and in fact, she shouldn't lack anything. She should not! I am there as a father and I am still providing. That's the joy, what am I making money for if not for the girl." Sonie has asked rumour peddlers to stop tainting her image with the allegations that the child is not Mulamwah's. "It is not funny anymore. The reason why I broke up with Mulamwah is not Keilah. Keilah is Mulamwah's baby, period," she said. The comedian said he had healed after the break-up and is in a relationship with a woman called Ruth. "Mulamwah is a hot cake, he cannot stay on the shelf for a long time," he said. "There are many women willing to go home with me and if you didn’t have some to keep you straight, you will lose yourself."