The security agencies in coastal region have heighten surveillance on key public infrastructure in the fight against vandalism. Coast regional commissioner John Elungata said the government is using a multi-agency approach to end vandalism of public infrastructure and bring sanity to the scrap metal industry. Speaking during a visit to Taita Taveta county, the administrator said the vandals majorly target Kenya Power infrastructure and rail network. Other public infrastructure being targeted by vandals include oil and water pipelines and roads infrastructure. “Vandalism is an act of economic sabotage. We are keen on curtailing the illegal business that is a threat to public infrastructure,” Elungata said. Enhanced police patrols and community involvement, he said, has helped reduce vandalism incidents in the region. He said police in the region are also engaged in a multi-agency sensitisation drive to engage the public on regulations governing public infrastructure to avert further acts of vandalism. The multi-agency drive will involve officers drawn from National Government Administration Officers, National Intelligence Service  and Railways police. He said the government is keen on charging treasonous persons found culpable of vandalising critical development infrastructure. “Besides sensitisation, the team will bring to book members of the public found engaging in vandalism activities,” he added. President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 sent a warning to SGR vandals that they shall be met with severe punishment, including being hanged to death, for sabotaging the multi-billion shilling infrastructure project. Uhuru said vandalism will not be tolerated or a few people allowed to interfere with the rights of the present and future generations. He said the destruction amounts to economic sabotage, a capital offence whose punishment in Kenya is hanging. Last month, the President, further, banned any exports or dealings in scrap metal until proper guidelines are put in place to regulate the sector.    -Edited by SKanyara