Deputy President William Ruto suffered a major blow Saturday after Isiolo Women Rep Rehema Jaldesa ditched UDA for Jubilee Party. In a meeting at State House, Jaldesa, who was accompanied other leaders from the county, promised  full commitment to Jubilee and unwavering support to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his government. The deliberations centred on aligning the lower and upper region to back ODM leader Raila Odinga's State house bid under the Azimio la Umoja movement. The meeting was attended by former Isiolo governor Godana Doyo, Isiolo North MP Hassan Odha and leaders from Mandera county led by Governor Ali Roba who has since formed his UDM party. The latest development is a huge blow to Ruto, considering Jaldesa was a key point woman to lock the votes of the upper Eastern. The first time MP who has said she will defend her seat has been on the forefront in criticising the Jubilee administration while openly showing support to the Deputy President. In October last year, at a gathering dubbed 'Azimio la Umoja in Garissa' that brought together delegates from Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, Isiolo, Marsabit and Mandera, Jaldesa was the only top leader missing from her county. She later come out to reassure the Ruto brigade of her unwavering support for him in the forthcoming polls. However she has been missing in action in recent times, raising questions that she was headed to the Azimio camp which has the blessings of President Kenyatta. Given the nature of clan politics in Northeastern, analysts believe the backing of Raila by key leaders could give him a head start. Former National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale remains the most prominent political leader in Ruto's camp. The counties of Mandera, Wajir and Garissa have a total of 617,999 votes while the counties of Marsabit and Isiolo from the upper Eastern have 251,007 votes. During the meeting, the leaders once again called for the establishment of Sericho subcounty. The President, on the other hand, promised to beef up security in the crime-prone areas in the county as well provide specialised motor vehicles for emergency response. Uhuru promised to recruit National Police Reservists to boost security in the region. On drought mitigation, the President  promised the initiation of animal takeoff programme and cash transfers, among other mitigation measures.  (edited by Amol Awuor)