Kakamega government will expand water storage capacity to more than double by end of the year, to end the perennial water rationing and ensure a constant supply. The Kakamega County Urban Water and Sanitation Company has initiated the construction of Sh87 million water tanks. The company is constructing 5,000 cubic meters tanks with the capacity to hold five million litres of water at Lirhanda in Shinyalu subcounty. The tank at Milimani has a capacity of 2. 2 million litres and it serves Kakamega town and its environs. Acting Kacuwasco chief executive Christabel Ashiono said the irregular water supply has been caused by low storage capacity. “Once the Lirhanda water storage project is complete, our clients will enjoy constant supply. We are aware of the complaints,” Ashiono said. She said the Lirhanda water project is expected to be completed by April. Kakamega, Shinyalu, Muranda and Shitoli urban schemes receive water from Tindinyo on the border of Kakamega and Nandi counties. The company receives 13,000 cubic metres of water from Tindinyo against a daily demand of 12,000 cubic metres by Kakamega town. Of the 13,000 cubic metres of water, 42 per cent or 5,460 cubic metres, is lost through illegal connections and pipes in an old network in the municipality. Ashiono said the company produces enough water. In 2017, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya promised residents he would connect every household to piped water, if he was reelected. However, six months to the end of his second and final term of office, access to the commodity remains a challenge. Ashiono was, however, confident the storage project will achieve the promise in urban areas. She said the town is growing hence the increase in demand. “The company will spend Sh12 million to rehabilitate the Tindinyo water intake,” Ashiono said. “The money will be used to repair water filters that are worn out and raw water main line that was exposed on the surface due to soil erosion caused by heavy rains.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris