The Turkana county government illegally operated six bank accounts in a commercial bank through which public funds were not disclosed to Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. The county is headed by Governor Josphat Nanok who is completing his second term. Gathungu, in her latest county audit report for 2019-20, said the county statement of assets and liabilities on June 30, 2020, reflected bank balances of Sh1.9 billion. She said a review of records provided revealed the county executive operated six accounts at Kenya Commercial Bank. The management, however, did not provide for audit review the authorisation by the county treasury to open and operate the accounts in a commercial bank. She said the move to operate such bank accounts was contrary to regulation 82 of the Public Finance Management (County Governments) Regulations, 2015. They require all county government bank accounts be opened at the Central Bank of Kenya, except with the approval of the county treasury. “Consequently, management was in breach of law in operating unauthorised bank accounts,” Gathungu said. She also questioned an unexplained variance of more than Sh1.6 billion in the amounts recorded as exchequer releases to the county during the year under review. The audit said the county statement of receipts and payments for the year ending June 30, 2020, reflected exchequer releases of Sh10.2 billion. However, the bank statement for the Turkana County Revenue Fund for the period under review indicates that the exchequer totalling Sh11.7 billion resulted in an unexplained and unreconciled variance Sh1.6 billion. “Consequently, the accuracy and completeness of the exchequer releases of Sh10.2 billion for the year ending June 30, 2020, could not be confirmed," Gathungu said. Concerning county assets, Gathungu said the financial statements indicate a total fixed assets balance of Sh3.2 billion on June 30, 2020. The Auditor General noted, however, that as reported in the previous year, the balance did not include fixed assets inherited from the defunct local authorities. “In the circumstances, the ownership, valuation, and existence of the fixed assets valued at Sh.3.2 billion as well as those inherited from the defunct local authorities as at June 30, 2020 could not be confirmed," the audit read. The audit review also indicated that the statement of comparative budget and actual amounts reflected final receipts, budget and actual, on a comparable basis of Sh14.8 billion and Sh13.2 billion, respectively. This resulted in underfunding of Sh1.6 billion, or 11 per cent of the budget. Similarly, Gathungu said the county executive spent Sh12.2 billion against an approved budget of Sh14.9 billion resulting in an under-expenditure of  Sh2.6 billion or 18 per cent of the budget. “The under absorption of the approved budget by 18 per cent is an indication that activities and projects in the annual work plan were not implemented by the county government," the Auditor General said. She said the under-utilisation likely had a negative effect on delivery of goods and services to the residents of Turkana county. On recruitment of staff without an approved staff establishment, Gathungu said a review of the payroll records during the year indicated  the county executive recruited 228 officers. However, there was no evidence that all vacancies were declared including the number of vacancies, date of occurrence and other relevant details required under Section B.5(2) of the County Public Service Human Resource Manual, 2013. The county also failed to give an explanation for recruiting staff without an authorised staff establishment to show availability of the vacancies. (Edited by V. Graham)