NARC Kenya party leader Martha Karua says its unfair for the media to portray the upcoming August 9 presidential election as a two-horse race between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga. "I don’t think it’s fair for the media to talk of only two horses when there are several other people who have declared their interest in the presidency," Karua said during an interview on Citizen Tv on Tuesday. Karua said she is open to support the candidate selected from One Kenya Alliance whether it would be Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoa or KANU's Gideon Moi. Both Kalonzo and Moi have declared their presidential bid in the August elections. "But if also OKA agrees with other formation, that is also open, these are possibilities," she said. On the impact of the exit of ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula from OKA, Karua said it was a loss for all the  parties involved. "It was a loss for both OKA and also for them. They are however entitled to make their choices and we must respect that," she said. Last month, Kalonzo said OKA will form a coalition with like minded parties. Speaking during OKA's voter registration mobilisation exercise in Machakos county, Kalonzo said they were not regretting ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula's OKA exit. "We will do coalitions with other people, parties. Coalition isn't bad, we will get into coalition with others for sure, " Kalonzo said. The OKA principal was accompanied by KANU party leader Gideon Moi, NARC Kenya's Martha Karua, Wiper chairman Ali Mwakwere, a hoist of Wiper leaders including Ukambani senators, MPs, woman representatives, MCAs, alongside several aspirants for various political positions. Kalonzo said their intention of inviting more parties to work together under coalition arrangements with the intention of forming the next government, was within the law, the newly enacted political parties act. He said they will work with Gideon and Karua in mobilising for votes ahead of the August 9th presidential poll. Kalonzo praised the two leaders stating that they were principled. "You stand for principles. Some have problems with their own minds, capacity to think straight," Kalonzo said. "We will actually be forgiven for walking out of a presidential candidate's launch. It wasn't out of cowardice. You can't call us saying you are running for president and the next thing you are doing is giving it away," Kalonzo said.