Vihiga Senator George Khaniri has promised to ditch the Azimio coalition for Kenya Kwanza if ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi becomes the latter's presidential flag bearer. Khaniri said Mudavadi is the best candidate for the alliance that brings together Deputy President William Ruto of UDA and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula. He asked Ruto to shelve his presidential ambitions in favour of Mudavadi, saying such a move will promote regional balance and ethnic inclusivity. Khaniri said Kenya has more than 40 ethnic communities but only two have been at the helm of the nation's leadership. "That is unfair to other communities," he said. He was speaking during a service at Epang'a Church of God in Luanda constituency on Sunday. "Since we got Independence in 1963, we had Mzee Jomo Kenyatta as President for 16 years. Moi took over for 24 years and before that he served for 12 years as vice president," Khaniri said. The lawmaker said Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta, who come from the same community, each has served two terms. Uhuru is serving his second term. Khaniri said the time has come for other communities to lead the nation and revive the ailing economy. In January, Uhuru signalled that the time has come for other communities to lead the nation. The President said Kenya has been led by only two communities since Independence. "We have other communities as well that can lead,” he said in Vihiga. The head of state said he will hand over the leadership baton to another community to lead after his tenure. He said his journey of uniting Kenyans is unstoppable. "Politics should not be based on the tribal basis but on ideologies and sober agendas that can move this nation ahead," the President had said. Kenya Kwanza have been accusing the head of state of plotting his succession, citing that he is denying Kenyans their democratic right to elect leaders of their choice. Kenya Kwanza has termed Raila Odinga as a government project. In December, DP Ruto said that a Raila presidency is being pushed by a few wealthy individuals who are after protecting their business interests at the expense of poor Kenyans. He challenged Kenyans to reject the ODM leader and embrace his bottom-up economic model which he said will uplift the lives of many. "A few people, merely because they have fat bank accounts and in their arrogance, schemed to decide for us who becomes our president. They have organised interviews and imposed on us whom they want to be the President of this nation," Ruto had said. But Raila has dismissed the claim that he is a government project. "I have been the prime minister and a government official. How can I be a project? That is rubbish!" he said at Bomas of Kenya on Friday during a joint NDC meeting of Muungano and Narc parties. Edited by A.N