Schools have different ways of punishing students who get a second or, unbelievably, a third helping of a meal. Some are suspended or expelled while others are forced to buy food for the entire school. But psychiatrists now say while teens generally have bigger appetites, many of those over eating are just sick and need medical help, not punishment. Last year, they tested 9,742 high school, college and university students and found that up to 19 per cent could be suffering from binge eating disorder. Although it is little known in Kenya, BED is severe, life-threatening and is recognised as the world’s commonest eating disorder. It is also treatable. The psychiatrists are from the Nairobi-based Africa Mental Health Research and Training Foundation, the University of Nairobi and Machakos University. They said people with BED frequently consume unusually large amounts of food in a short time and feel unable to stop eating. They then experience feelings of shame or loss of control afterwards. “We found a prevalence of 3.2 per cent of BED and a wide range of prevalence for BED and BED-related symptoms (8.1 per cent to 19 per cent),” they said in a study reviewed by other researchers and published in a scientific journal. The prevalence in Kenya is troubling because it is higher than the global average of two per cent, and is also linked to additional health issues such as high cholesterol levels and diabetes. People with BED also have emotional stresses that often trigger a period of binge eating. Psychiatrist David Ndetei, who led the study, said this was likely the first such study in Africa. “There is a dearth of literature on eating disorders not only in Kenya but the rest of sub-Saharan Africa,” he said. It is published in the current edition of BMC Psychiatry journal. The students were recruited from Nairobi, Machakos, Kitui and Makueni counties. The researchers said they cannot generalise findings on the high school student population to other similar students because their study participants came only from Ukambani. The study was done in the villages when secondary schools were closed. “However, the college and university students who participated in this study are drawn from across the country and therefore there is a possibility that our findings can be generalised to college and university students admitted under the same arrangements to other colleges and universities in Kenya,” they said. They used the Psychiatric Diagnostic Screening Questionnaire, which records BED symptoms. The questionnaire is self-administered with 10 questions asking about specific symptoms of BED. The questions were coded as No or Yes. They hope the study can inform school administrators to stop expelling students for overeating, but instead refer them for counselling and treatment. Therapy options include psychotherapy, behaviour therapy, weight loss therapy and medication.(edited by Amol Awuor)