Women in Lamu are taking the lead role in restoring and conserving wetlands in the region. The conservation is through massive reforestation of mangrove trees in areas where the trees have been exploited for years. In marking this year’s World Wetlands Day, women-led conservation organisations in Lamu are seeking to plant 200,000 acres of mangrove seedlings in various parts of Lamu that are considered wetlands. World Wetlands Day, celebrated annually on  February 2, aims to raise global awareness about the vital role of wetlands for people and the planet. About 61 per cent of Kenya’s entire mangrove forest cover lies in Lamu. More 32,000 acres of mangroves in Lamu have been lost due to irresponsible harvesting. Through the Pate, Faza and Ndau women organisations, the women have been able to restore close to 500,000 acres of mangroves through reforestation. Amina Shalo of the Faza women conservation group, said they were working closely with the Kenya Forest Services, Kenya Wildlife Services, and private conservation bodies such as the Northern Rangeland Trust in their quest to restore and ensure a balanced ecosystem. “These organisations have been supportive in supplying us with the seedlings and offering any other support we request in our mission. This year we shall do another 200,000 acres of mangroves in selected wetlands,” Shalo said. She added that their mission is to educate the community to understand that their livelihoods now and in the future are entirely dependent on how well they conserve the environment. Ndau community conservator Amina Muhashiam called on the community to embrace sustainable mangrove harvesting to enable the growth of a healthy forest cover. In Lamu mangroves are directly tied to the culture and heritage of the region, with all structures, boats and other amenities built using mangroves. However, the trees have over the years been exploited, resulting in over-harvesting without replanting, a factor that has in the long run affected the forest cover not just in Lamu but across the country. Mangroves have for long been at the verge of extinction especially at the coastal strip owing to continued cutting of the mangrove for firewood, construction, pulp production, charcoal burning and animal fodder by residents. Apart from harvesting, Lamu has also been losing millions of mangroves which are felled to pave way for the establishment of mega national projects such as the Lamu Port (Lapsset) at Kililana. However, three years after a ban on mangrove logging was lifted by the government in Lamu, the KFS recognised and lauded efforts made by the local community in ensuring the cover is maintained even as they use them for commercial and subsistence purposes. The ban was imposed in February 2018 as a mitigation measure against the prolonged drought spells and water shortages in the country. The Lamu ban was lifted in February 2019 but with conditions that loggers were to operate with caution to ensure sustainability of the mangroves. Lamu county rakes in more than Sh10 million monthly as returns from mangrove sales with more than 30,000 families’ livelihoods directly dependent on mangrove logging, which translates to more than half of the region’s entire population. The Pate women conservation group chairperson Rafia Aboud called for concerted efforts in mangrove preservation as the trees provide livelihoods for many communities. (edited by Amol Awuor)