ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has chided President Uhuru Kenyatta over his 'We’ve the candidate, twende tuunde serikali' remark. Mudavadi claimed the President publicly proved that Raila Odinga and his Azimio la Umoja Movement are state projects. "For some time we have been asking whether the real owners of Azimio can come out. The president has now come out openly as the patron of the formation," Mudavadi said. He spoke on Saturday during the Kenya Kwanza Alliance rally in Kakamega. "Uhuru does not want to leave power. He wants to install a puppet president so he can continue controlling government remotely," he said. "It is ironically that Raila is now ready to be assisted to win an election by the provincial administration he has been calling for the scrapping of the department." Mudavadi in the company of his Kenya Kwanza delegates said he has no regrets joining hands with DP William Ruto in the bid to change the lives of Kenyans. "We want the lives of our people to be better and that’s why we came together," he said. “Kenya has no money. We cannot afford the second round. We must win in the first round. We want to win with 70 percent plus one so that we are not taken to court,” he said. On Friday, President Uhuru met with thousands young leaders from across the country at State House to discuss the progress of various government youth empowerment programs. In a clip circulating on social media, the youths were seen singing and clapping in unison as they said Kenya can move on without Uhuru's second in command. During the meeting, Uhuru advised the youth to be strategic in their desire to ascend to positions of leadership saying young people should actively engage with the ongoing electoral processes. “As they speak about Jubilee Party’s death, you can also see what the party has been doing. We have been able to achieve much but there are some projects which are not complete, and hence as Jubilee (Party), we are now coming out of the office getting into real politics. “And because some were politicking while work was ongoing, we have said we want a coalition unit of like-minded parties and together we join Azimio. We have the candidate, we have the resources and the youth are together with us," Uhuru said. While recalling events leading up to his closing of ranks with opposition leader Raila Odinga in 2018, the president said the 'handshake' was aimed at securing Kenya's stability that had been threatened by post-election political division. “A lot of what we have been able to achieve has been as a result of peace. What we call the intangible creates an atmosphere that allows work to happen. "In 2013 we got the opportunity and we were able to do what we did and we thank God. But 2017 was one of my worst and most difficult years. It was also my most trying time. “Why? Because we were caught up in a scenario whereby the country had been divided almost down the middle. There were those who were celebrating Jubilee's win and there were those protesting at Uhuru Park. And we had to make a choice and that choice was not an easy one,” the President said. He said he consulted widely before reaching out to Raila and commended the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader for agreeing to the 'handshake'.