Tension is high in Baringo North after bandits killed a herder and stole  341 animals on Tuesday evening. Jacob Kimosop, known as Kiptuitui, 50, was accompanying fellow villagers pursuing the armed bandits and trying to recover the stolen animals. They were ambushed and he was shot dead. This death brings the number of bandit gunshot fatalities in Baringo to eight since December last year. On February 4, Interior Cs Fred Matiang'i ordered a security operation in Baringo but residents say they see no sign of an operation. The killing occurred in Ng’aratuko village in Saimo-Soi ward. “The victim died on the way while he was being rushed to the hospital,"  Baringo North OCPD Fred Odinga said on Wednesday. The body was taken to the county referral hospital mortuary in Kabarnet. Concerning the latest killing, residents said about 10 armed bandits stormed the village at about 4pm and fired in the air to scare away residents. The dead man's pregnant widow was looking after their goats in the bush. She fell and injured her leg while fleeing the bandits. Resident Enock Rong’uno said the bandits drove off 351 goats and sheep, 290 belonging to the victim Kimsop, 41 belonging to George Chebor and 20 belonging to Zephania Kimsop. “We were able to recover only 10 animals while the bandits drove away the remaining 341 towards  neighbouring Tiaty subecounty," Rong'uno said. The raid was suspected to be a retaliatory attack after a lorry belonging to traders ferrying goats was ambushed and ransacked at Loruk, Baringo North, last week. Following that incident, Loruk sublocation assistant chief Samuel Kamuren said his bosses threatened to interdict him if he failed to produce the culprits. The deadly incidents and cattle rustling occur despite the promised security operation ordered by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i in Nakuru on February 4. Residents said it has been two weeks since the orders were issued but no operation as been detected. Baringo commissioner Abdirazack Jaldesa expressed concern, urging the residents to be patient a little longer as the as government plans a major operation to confiscate illegal firearms. He also said the hiring NPRs has commenced and soon they will be deployed in the volatile areas. Tension is high as the residents flee the volatile Ng’aratuko village towards Chepkowel, Sibilo and Koroto. Learning has also been paralysed at Kosile and Ngaratuko primary schools after they were indefinitely shut down for fear of attacks. Similar violence  is experienced in Arabal, Mochongoi, Kasiela, Yatya and Chepkesin in Baringo North where bandits have taken over, killing, displacing people and burning houses. The victims are appealing to the government to intervene while threatening to demonstrate and barricade  Chemolingot-Marigat-Nakuru-Kabarnet highway if their safety is not assured. “We wonder why the government has decided to leave us to die at the hands of bandits this way, yet we still believe we all belong to one Kenya,” resident Richard Chepchomei said. He said if the state feels it has been overpowered by bandits, then it should employ National Police Reservists or let the people own licensed guns to protect lives and property. “It is so unfair for the government to rush and quell the situation in Laikipia and now watch the people of Baringo die as if we deserve death anyway,” Chepchomei said. (Edited by V. Graham)