Deputy President William Ruto on Friday vowed to ensure that all the projects initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta will be completed if he wins the Presidency. The DP said he understands the Jubilee’s development blueprint and will do whatever it takes to accomplish the promises they made to Kenyans. Speaking on a tour of Nyandarua county, days after Uhuru denounced him and declared he will back ODM boss Raila Odinga, Ruto said he has the credentials to take Kenya forward. “Even as President Kenyatta retires, the hustler will be there to make sure that we fulfil our pledges to Kenyans,” Ruto said. The DP asked the region to back his presidential bid to shame what he termed as a cabal of political brokers and influential people plotting to impose their ‘project on Kenyans” “Will the people in big hotels and offices decide for you? Will you make a decision on your own?... and you say you will not be coerced?... let us form the government together this August,” Ruto said. The DP said they had an ambitious programme to create jobs for millions of Kenyans but the plan was disrupted by ODM boss Raila Odinga after the handshake with Uhuru. “That Kitendawili man came and brought his reggae but the Lord in heaven stopped it,’ Ruto said at, Geta in Kipipiri. Kipipiri is National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya’s constituency. The DP said Raila was opposed to his radical economic empowerment for the hustlers because he ‘has never slept hungry or walked bare-footed.” The DP embarked on another tour of the President’s turf moments after Nyandarua Senator Mwangi Githiomi quit the ruling Jubilee party and joined UDA. The senator led a host of  Nyandarua county MCAs who were received by Ruto on Friday morning at his official Karen residence. The DP is determined to consolidate his gains in Mt Kenya and to lock out Raila from getting any significant support from the region in the August 9 general election. The President has termed Ruto a political fraudster and a corrupt individual who has been looting public funds and sabotaging the country’s economy. Uhuru said on Wednesday that Ruto is unfit to rule and vowed to roll out aggressive campaigns to block him from succeeding him. Today, Ruto will hold a major political meeting in Nyeri county in what is seen as a charm offensive to neutralise Uhuru’s Raila Tosha declaration. The DP will be hosted by Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga who skipped the Sagana III meeting, Wednesday despite Uhuru saying he was invited. Ruto will hold a rally at Asian Quarters Grounds after concluding another planned tour of Laikipia county on the same day. The Nyeri meeting has been billed as a parallel Sagana declaration by pro-Ruto forces from the President’s backyard. To counter the president’s move to endorse Raila as his preferred successor, the DP’s team is expected to parade all elected leaders who have joined the hustler nation from Mt Kenya. “I want to promise you that the electricity connection project will not cease with the retirement of the president, that will continue until every household gets connected to electricity,” the DP said at Ole Kalau, Nyandarua county, on Friday.