Lamu fishermen have threatened to boycott August 9 election should the government fail to pay them a Sh1.76 billion compensation package. Lamu county has close to 7,000 fishermen out of which more than 5,000 have been displaced from their traditional fishing waters. This is because of the dredging activities at the new Lamu Port site, LAPSSET. Dredging activities at the port caused the closure of many traditional fishing sites in the Indian Ocean, rendering thousands of fisher folk without a source of livelihood. In May 2018, following a successful petition, Malindi High Court ruled in favour of the fishermen, saying the project had failed to meet basic constitutional and legal requirements. The court awarded the fisher folk a compensation package of Sh1.76 billion to 4,734 fishermen as the port project was proved to have violated the local community’s cultural rights. They were to receive the funds before May 15, 2018, so as to pave way for the opening of the port on May 20, 2018. Close to four years later, the port has started operations yet the fishermen have yet to receive their compensation. A total of 37 fishermen have since died awaiting the compensation. Speaking in Lamu Island on Wednesday, Lamu fishermen spokesperson Mohamed Somo said they have informed their members not to participate in the polls until the money is paid. “We cannot vote for a government and individuals who cannot push and ensure we get the justice we deserve,” Somo said. He further said their livelihoods had greatly suffered due to the dredging of their fishing channels, and that the compensation is to enable them pursue alternatives sources of income. The fishermen are also unable to conduct their activities in the deeper seas because they lack powerful boat engines that can withstand the rough tides. They also lack safety gears needed in such risky environments. “The only option left for us to do deep sea fishing but we can’t risk it.  In desperate situations, a few fishermen have dared do that, but died in the process,” Somo said. Lapsset fishermen litigation counsel Lempaa Suyianka accused Kenya Ports Authority for complicating the compensation process by frustrating every development made during the various meetings between the two sides. He said so far all attempts have stalled because KPA continues to impose new barriers and elements that have made it impossible to bring the matter to an amicable end. The counsel asked the authority to desist from blaming others and, instead, be straightforward on whether the compensation will ever happen. In a previous interview, KPA head of corporate affairs Bernad Osero said the authority was working towards resolving a few legal issues after which the fishermen will be promptly paid the monies. He said the authority was not to blame for the delay as they are waiting for the government and Save Lamu lawyers to agree on the wording of the consent note.  (edited by Amol Awuor)