We all know that Snapchat invented the Stories format to share photos and videos that disappear. The company, along with Facebook, now indicate that the future of social media is more like TikTok. On Thursday, during an investors quarterly earnings report, Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel said less time is being spent watching Friends’ Stories in the app, even though the company had hoped Stories’ engagement would increase as pandemic lockdowns eased and people started going out more. Instead, Snapchat users are flocking to watch videos on Spotlight. This is Snapchat’s TikTok rival used for watching viral videos posted by random creators, and the Discover section for premium shows. “This is a continuation of the trend we observed during the pandemic, and the posting and viewing of friend stories per daily active user has not returned to pre-pandemic levels,” Spiegel said. “While we are hopeful that over time our community will revert to the storytelling behaviors of friends we observed prior to the pandemic, we are focused on innovating our content offerings to better serve our community today.” “People have a lot of choices for how they want to spend their time, and apps like TikTok are growing very quickly.” Mark Zuckerberg, the CEO of Meta, also identified TikTok as a formidable threat this week. “People have a lot of choices for how they want to spend their time, and apps like TikTok are growing very fast,” he said during Meta’s fourth quarter earnings call on Wednesday. Unlike Snapchat, which is still expanding its user base and showing better-than-expected revenue growth, Meta disappointed investors this week with its earnings report, wiping out more than $200 billion of its market value in one day — beating the record it had previously set in 2018. While Snapchat hasn’t detailed exactly what the changes to the content section will look like yet, it’s easy to imagine making the tab more like TikTok by opening videos from Spotlight creators in full screen, with the ability to dig deeper into longer Discover diving shows. So while Snapchat and Meta’s business achievements are getting publicized, it’s worth noting that they both see TikTok as competition. Captivating new formats, be it Stories or the TikTok video feed, have the potential to quickly shift the user’s attention.