There was an increase in the number of Gender-based violence cases between January 1 and 31, the Federation of Women Lawyers has said. According to the report released on February 10, the cases reported on their toll-free line were over 176, an increase from 161 in December. The number of child custody and maintenance cases was also high with 80 cases. The report was done to analyse the nature of cases received on their toll-free line between April 5 and January. They attribute the rise in these cases to the pandemic that caused many Kenyans to suffer economic constraints. “We received 9,891 cases between April and January, the highest number being child custody and maintenance cases at 3,608, followed by gender-based violence at 1,637,” the report said. Nancy Ikinu, Fida-Kenya chairperson, said the toll-free line was launched in April 2020 to help GBV victims report incidences during the pandemic. “When the Covid-19 pandemic hit, it worsened the vulnerability patterns for victims of sexual gender-based violence. We launched the line to ease reporting of cases and help victims obtain support,” she said. Ikinu said the most common forms of GBV identified from the toll-free line were, physical assault, rape or attempted rape, defilement, physical abuse, child marriages, psychological torture and child neglect. She said the report found Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa to have the most prevalence in GBV cases. “However, we have received cases from other counties including Kakamega, Kajiado, Kiambu, Kilifi, Uasin Gishu, Taita Taveta, Vihiga, Bungoma, Lamu, Siaya, Kitui and Nakuru,” she said. “During the entire period, these cases were the highest reported to the toll-free line, representing 45.5 per cent of the total cases followed by GBV cases of intimate partner violence at 4.5 per cent, defilement at 4.0 per cent and rape at 2.3 per cent,” read the report. However, this does not reflect, there is a general fall in cases of gender-based violence as many victims often fail to report due to fear of more violence and stigma. Ikinu said the line receives distress calls and appeals from women and girls every day who need help. She said the country needs to put up more shelters for victims who require rescue and support. “We urge the government and well-wishers to support the few safe shelters in the country to enable them adequately handle the increasing demand for their services by GBV survivors,” she said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris