The Kenya Private Sector Alliance has launched a policy that seeks to mainstream gender into the private sector. KEPSA through its Gender Sector Board has worked with various stakeholders across different sectors to draft the policy that will be officially launched in March. Speaking during a stakeholder engagement webinar on Wednesday, Mucha Mlingo, the Gender Board’s Chairperson said that the policy will help Kenya reach global standards of gender equality and diversity in workplaces. “As per the Global Sustainable Development Goals, gender equality stands at number five and we are committed to helping Kenya achieve this, starting with the private sector,” she said. Mlingo said that although Kenya is progressing well in terms of Board Diversity in the private sector, much more still needs to be done to male that progress swift. “According to the 2020-2021 Board Diversity Report, Kenya is fairing well globally with a diversity of 36 per cent at present, compared to 21 per cent in 2017,” she said. The Global average of Board Diversity, she said, is 23.3 per cent from 20.4 per cent in 2018. She added that gender mainstreaming is not only a good thing for companies to do but also, it made business sense. “Studies have shown that hiring a demographically diverse workforce does wonder to the economic output of an organisation,” she said. Mercy Okiro, the Vice-chair of the Board said that according to research from Global Business firms, diverse boards ended getting 55 per cent more profit than those who were not so diverse. “There is a good business case for gender mainstreaming and it is not just about more women in boards, it is also about more inclusion of people with disabilities and other minorities,” she said. James Ngomeli, Sub-Sector Lead on KEPSA’s Gender Board said that the policy would help to highlight gaps that exist in the private sector in terms of diversity and inclusion and help to bridge those gaps. “We will be highlighting companies who are champions of diversity so as to help others also get on board. By reviewing those who have mainstreamed, we will be able to build a great justification for those who are yet to be diverse,” he said. The policy, once implemented, will see private sector companies implement internal policies that aim to promote equity and equality across all levels. Mlingo said that KEPSA will be committed to ensuring that its members are aiming towards mainstreaming. “Though it is not a law, it is a policy that will help go a long way in bridging the inequality gap and we hope our members will help us achieve this,” she concluded.