Former national champions Vihiga Queens will miss the services of Tereza Engesha, Lonah Nyarinda, and Janet Bundi when they take on Wadadia in the Kenya Women's Premier League match on Saturday. WPL top scorer Engesha, who has managed nine goals in seven matches, is unavailable for the Mumias Sports Complex trip following the controversial interview with Sports Galore about her exit. The management believes the free-scoring striker is not in her right frame of mind even though she is eager to play. Experienced winger Janet Bundi could miss the remaining four first-leg matches, owing to chest pains. According to Vihiga coach Nyamunyamu, Bundi is likely to be away for close to two months. Vihiga are yet to play Mumias-based Wadadia, minnows Kangemi Ladies, and Thika Queens who are the defending champions. An explosive Vihiga county derby match against unpredictable Bunyore Starlets will further test Vihiga's resilience. Nyarinda, an all-action midfielder is also out for two weeks with a groin complaint. The former Kibera Soccer player was slowly finding her feet at the club but the setback was untimely. Nyamunyamu said Vihiga, who are on top of the WPL standings with 19 points from six wins and a draw, will have to find solutions within the squad. The three-time champions are the only team yet to lose a match this season and their ruthless edge in front of goal has set them apart from the rest of the chasing pack. "We cannot cry about the injuries because they are part of the game but remember those missing are integral to the team," Nyamunyamu said. "Engesha has been advised not to play because of what happened though she had declared herself ready. Nyarinda has a small problem but Bundi could be out for the foreseeable future depending on how she recuperates." Vihiga are chasing their fourth title in five years and their piling injuries could be detrimental to their ambitions considering fast-rising enigmatic forward Jentrix Shikangwa left. The 20-year-old joined Fatih Karagümrük S.K. in the Turkish top-flight league in January after impressing in the inaugural Confederation of African Football (CAF) women's Champions League. Shot stopper Lilian Awuor also inked a deal with ASJ Soyaux Charente in France.