Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Interior PS Karanja Kibicho have continued their supremacy battles. Their frosty relationship, which has existed for a considerable period, escalated with Kibicho attacking Waiguru's administration on Friday. The PS criticised Waiguru for allegedly misusing county resources, an action he said had led to her government achieving very little on ground. He alleged that some of the projects only exist on paper and are yet to be implemented while terming others as ghost projects which are said to have been undertaken but are not visible. Kibicho,who also hails from the county, alleged that there was wanting leadership under the present county and has since dared the governor to come clean and be accountable for the wrongs done under her administration. "Kirinyaga has the ability to thrive like Singapore if resources are put into the right use," he said. "The Sh33 billion is a large sum of money that can help achieve transformative projects." He said the deteriorating state of the county health care system is in depressing state after more than 300 medics were sacked in 2019 for participating in an illegal strike. “Many of the patients are seeking treatment in the neighbouring Embu county because our health facilities are in a sorry state," he said. "On the other hand, depression is consuming our medics who were fired by the county because of pushing for their rights to work under legally recommended conditions.” Kibicho, who was addressing more than 1,000 delegates at a Kagio-based hotel in Kirinyaga county further, accused the county assembly MCAs of allegedly being compromised on their oversight role. He said he still possesses a full audit report which they handed to him at the height  of the 2020 executive-assembly duel that consequently led to the impeachment of Governor Waiguru. He said through the office of the senator, they shall in the next couple of months use the report to push for accountability of the funds. “They (MCAs) gave me an audit report which they wanted me to present to the President," Kibicho said. "I want to remind them that I still have that report as a backup should an evil plan be hatched to cause the documents which are at the county offices disappear. “We entrusted them with a job to ensure that the county government efficiently carries out it’s mandate. How come they stopped pursuing accountability? Did she suddenly become clean?" Moving forward, Kibicho said he will lead 60 aggressive civic education sessions in all the subcounties where he shall be meeting different interest groups. He said that in the meetings he, in the company of other county leaders and professionals, will seek to enlighten the residents on the resolutions that were overwhelmingly adopted during Friday’s rally. “We have a duty to educate our people on the kind of question to ask aspirants who are seeking their votes and qualities to look out for while making decisions on the right leaders," he said. "This far we have unanimously passed that we want God-fearing, disciplined, accountable, respectable, accommodative and highly reputable leaders. Moreover, the leaders should be morally upright with high regard for family values and ones who prioritises unity.” The PS said through the meetings they intend to reach up to 5,000 county residents where they too shall be armed with copies of the passed resolutions. Waiguru has not once blamed Kibicho for his woes, with the most recent being late last month where she and other county UDA-affiliated leaders accused Kibicho of acting behind the scenes in denying them a permit to host an UDA rally at the Wang’uru stadium. The Star’s attempt to reach Waiguru over Kibicho’s allegations proved futile as she did not answer her phone calls. (edited by Amol Awuor)