Deputy President William Ruto has weighed in on President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement of the ODM leader Raila Odinga for the Presidency. Uhuru on Wednesday backed Raila for the top seat during his Sagana III meeting saying Ruto is not qualified to lead Kenya. Speaking in Kitui, on Thursday, the DP said he respects the President's decision to back the former Prime Minister. He, however, said the ODM lead should step forward and face him instead of competing him in the shadows of the President. "I voted for Uhuru, I campaigned for him and Odinga has never voted or campaigned for President Kenyatta, but I am okay with his decision to support that one person that has never voted for him. However, Odinga should remember that I am not competing with Uhuru, I am competing with him, let him come out and face me," he said. The DP's remarks come in the wake of a buzz Uhuru's endorsement has generated among Kenyans. Many Kenyans have expressed mixed reactions to the development with Ruto allies terming the move as inconsequential. While addressing delegates of the Mt Kenya region, Uhuru urged his community to back Raila's bid saying he has the best interests for the country. The President in an apparent reference to Ruto said he will have no problem supporting him in future if he reforms. "I'm asking you to support Raila Odinga as he means well for the Country. When "my young man reforms", we will consider him," Uhuru said. It was the first time President Uhuru was publicly telling his community that the ODM leader was his preferred successor. The President has been hinting at backing the ODM leader without mentioning it directly. At the Sagana III meeting, Uhuru was bold in saying that Raila was the best fit not only for the Mt Kenya region but Kenya ta large. He stated that the ODM leader understands where the country is heading, and will therefore be at peace to hand to him the leadership mantle. "The one I will handle the government, and you have mentioned him, I will leave him an economy of Sh13 trillion," Uhuru stated. Edited by B.Marita