Families battered by banditry attacks in Kaakong, Turkana South, have received relief food from the county administration. Turkana executive for disaster management Charles Lokyoto said they have distributed food to more than 2,000 people displaced by bandit attacks. The displaced victims in Kaakogu in Turkana South received maize, beans, cooking oil and other food items on Tuesday from the county administration. After almost three years of peace in Turkana and West Pokot counties, bandits launched attacks in Kainuk in Turkana South, driving away an unknown number of livestock. “Our people have been affected by banditry attacks, about 2,000 residents of Kaakong have been displaced. We have managed to distribute food including 130 bags of maize, 26 bags of beans, 24 cartons of cooking oil and 120 bags of animal feeds,” Lokyoto said. He said the county government will continue to give the necessary support to the needy families. The administration announced that at least 640,000 people are in dire need of food. Kaakong resident Rebeca Lochwaa spoke for many people. “I’m among those who lost livestock during the bandit attack last week. We have been left vulnerable because we had to leave our homes to seek  safety. We thank the county government for bringing food to us,” she said. Lochwaa has urged the county government to continue distributing relief food and water to enable them to survive the drought. She urged the county government and humanitarian agencies to initiate the restocking of livestock to help the families who lost their animals. She called for better security. In Napeitom, Turkana East, bandits last week killed a 30-year-old woman and a seven-year-old boy. Several people were also injured as the bandits drove away livestock towards Tiaty. Turkana East deputy county commissioner Saidi Shabaan said security personnel were still pursuing the criminals. In Turkana South, armed bandits attacked Koptiro (in Kainuk) Nariamao, Karenyang’ and Eco-lodge villages on February 3, and made off with more than 1,000 livestock, he said. Turkana commissioner Boniface Wambua issued a shoot-to-kill order against armed bandits (Edited by V. Graham)