A showdown is brewing between a section tea factories directors from Murang’a county and the chairperson of the Tea Prices Stabilisation Committee Irungu Nyakera over the mini-bonus payment. The directors are from zone three that includes Kiru, Kanyenya-ini, Gatunguru and Githambo tea factories. They have accused Nyakera of misleading farmers by announcing on social media that they will receive Sh10 per kg in the payment that is normally done in April. The directors said they are yet to sit down and harmonise their accounts to decide what farmers will receive. They further said that Nyakera’s announcement is only aimed at exciting farmers but is not factual. Zone three Kenya Tea Development Authority board member Chege Kirundi said directors are the only spokespersons of farmers and any other person purporting to speak on their behalf does so without their blessings. Kirundi accused Nyakera of making reckless statements that he said have the potential to incite farmers against directors. “Farmers should know that we have scheduled meetings to agree on the mini-bonus payments this month and they should not listen to anybody else,” he said. He noted that directors rely on the information they are given by factories’ management to arrive at the payments. “It is a decision made from actual data from the tea factories. We know he has not received any financial statements from the factories so where did he get his figures from?” he wondered. Kirundi pointed out that tea farming is a business whose decisions are made depending on the tea sold and the factories’ expenses. Kirundi who is also Kiru tea factory chairman said though farmers appreciate Nyakera’s efforts in effecting reforms in the sector, he needs to exercise caution while making statements that may cause conflicts. Last year, Kirundi said the zone made a mini-bonus payment of Sh5 per kg saying it remains to be seen whether the figure will change. Joseph Karanu, Githambo tea factory chairperson urged farmers to be careful and not be misled by politicians. “This is an elections year and many will do everything they can to get your votes. Lies will be told but on tea, the only person who can give information about a factory is the chairman and directors,” he said, alluding to Nyakera’s bid to run for the county governorship. Karanu said tea payments are not cast on stone and can change depending with the sales made. He said as directors, they are open to paying Sh10 per kilogram if their factories financial statements allow it. Gatunguru tea factory chairperson Mwangi Kaguma said his factory has over 8,000 farmers whose lives depend on tea and that it is immoral for someone to play politics with it. Should the mini-bonus payment be less than Sh10 per kg, Kaguma said farmers may be provoked after Nyakera’s announcement. “We agree that we were elected on the reforms agenda but nobody should micro-manage us. We condemn it in totality,” he said. Macharia Karuguru, chairman Kanyenya-ini tea factory, said tea reforms were fought for by farmers and that everyone is eager to see the results. “If you have fought for farmers’ interests then they will support you don't force it. This is not the time to bring politics. It is time to do everything possible to boost farmers’ earnings. Since he is in politics, let him focus on that,” he added. But Nyakera insisted that the factories have made sufficient money for farmers to receive Sh10 per kilogram. He said the disagreements between him and the directors stem from his proposal to have Kiru tea factory elections redone. “Kiru tea factory did not do any elections. They tagged on our reforms agenda and managed to trick us and then used a court order issued years back to block elections,” he told The Star. Elections for buying centres committee members have been scheduled for February 9 after which a notice will be given for directors’ elections. Should the current directors of the factory block the elections, Nyakera said they will be forced out. “This is why Kirundi has issues with me. There is no reason why zone three should pay Sh5 per kilogram while others pay Sh10. Farmers’ money belong to farmers and should be given to them,” he said.