Businessman Stanely Livondo was Monday questioned by police over his claims that a person he did not name tried to assassinate President Uhuru Kenyatta twice. He told police he has evidence and wants those deemed witnesses to be protected. He also asked for his security to be boosted. “I have given what I have and I want all my witnesses to be ready. I have also asked that my witnesses should be provided with security because this thing is big,” he said after a one-hour grilling. Livondo said officials handling the matter asked him to return to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations offices on Thursday for further grilling. He had been summoned by officials from the Serious Crimes Unit who are investigating the claims. This follows remarks he made on Saturday during Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's homecoming in Thika. Livondo alleged that some people tried to attack a presidential jet. He was accompanied by his lawyer Victor Kariuki to the DCI offices. The two said they had provided evidence and will wait for the police to do their work. Livondo said the plans started in 2014. Kuria asked DCI boss George Kinoti to investigate the claims made by Livondo on Saturday in Thika. “You have a friend who attempted to crash your plane twice, will you forgive him? The first attempt was when President Uhuru Kenyatta was leaving Kisumu and the second attempt was when he was going to the US through Dubai and he had to make a detour,” Livondo said. Many believe Livondo referred to the 2015 incident when the presidential plane heading to the US via Dubai flew back to Kenya. He said the incident was because of a misunderstanding between two countries. Kenya sent a protest note to Ethiopia over the aborted trip. The jet returned to Nairobi after Ethiopian air controllers advised them to reroute. The presidential jet flew back to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport four hours after it had taken off. Although initial reports indicated that it had crossed the Kenyan-Ethiopia border almost 40 minutes later and headed for Eritrea, which was the safe route given the turmoil in Yemen, the officials clarified that Kenyatta's jet returned from Somalia. Then Foreign Affairs PS Karanja Kibicho said the President's pilot had two options: Return or land for refuelling. The pilot chose to fly back since landing a presidential jet in a foreign country requires the pilot to follow strict protocols. The new route could have seen the President's plane enter Saudi airspace on its way to Dubai through Somalia and Djibouti. In the Kisumu incident in 2019, the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga breached protocol and delayed the flight by more than four hours as they toured the city. Kenyatta changed his mind about boarding his jet at the Kisumu International Airport at the eleventh hour and instead accompanied Raila on a tour of Kisumu town. He later left for Nairobi.