Confusion hit Mombasa’s Central Business District on Wednesday morning as the new traffic rules imposed by the county became effective. Motorists and passengers, especially those using public means, complained as they were delayed in traffic, amid confusion on the roads. According to Michael Chayu, a matatu driver plying the Tudor-Docks route, the new rules have adversely affected them because they have been forced to use longer routes, a move he said will increase fuel consumption. He added that they were not informed about the new routes which, he said, was going to affect their pick-up points and stages as the roads affected are all going one way. “The situation is bringing a lot of confusion. We are taking longer routes to get to town. The county should have consulted us and notified us early enough before waking up today and implementing the new rules,” Chayu said. His sentiments were echoed by Abdulrazak Salmini plying the Mtwapa-town route, who said that the new rules were not going to work. He added that the main Mombasa-Malindi highway already experiences traffic at Bombolulu and and Lights area, and now the new traffic system is causing even more chaos. “This system cannot work. Since morning I have managed only two trips. On a normal day I could have done three trips by 9am, and if this persists, we shall increase fare,” he said. The Matatu Owners Association coast region faulted Mombasa county for failing to conduct a stakeholders meeting and public participation with all Saccos affiliated to the association. Salim Mbarak, the MOA coast region coordinator, said that they were not notified and neither were they involved in any meeting to discuss the new traffic changes. “There was no consultation or public participation from the Matatu Owners Association and neither did all the Saccos in Mombasa get involved. This system is bound to fail. It is a one-man show,” Mbarak said. Mbarak further said that the new changes were against traffic laws and were going to cause more accidents because drivers will be driving on the wrong side and will be forced to pick and drop passengers in the middle of the road. Transport executive Tawfiq Balala, however, said that they expected confusion in the first day of implementing the new traffic rules, saying that with time things will be normal and stable. Addressing journalists along Jomo Kenyatta Avenue, Balala said that the confusion was not going to last long, adding that things will get better. “When we came up with the Happy Hour, people complained, but today they appreciate it. Today everybody is getting lost that’s why you see the confusion, but just give them a few days and everything will get better,” Balala added. He denied claims that stakeholders were not involved, saying that the county has conducted a series of meetings with all stakeholders in the transport sector in the last two years. “It is not an easy task for somebody to take the responsibility and do what we did. The job that we were given is not an easy one. Sometimes we have to make hard decisions and bite the bullet.” This is even after the Kenya National Highway Authority through the office of the director regional network and maintenance wrote to the count executives over the new rules affecting roads. In a letter dated February 1, Kenha called for a consultative meeting with stakeholders to evaluate the proposed changes. “We take note that the following road networks belonging to Kenha have been affected by the proposal to decongest Mombasa CBD. These are important high traffic capacity roads which provide both mobility and accessibility to local and international traffic," a part of the letter read. “There is need to urgently convene a stakeholders meeting to evaluate the proposed traffic decongestion plan.”  (edited by Amol Awuor)