As the battle for the Presidency gets down to the wire, aspirants seeking the country's top seat will need more than just a manifesto to bag the support of the many undecided Kenyans. The August presidential poll has been billed as a contest between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. The entry of the OKA to Azimio became the proverbial final nail on the coffin for a possibility of having a third force that will change the tides for the two top contenders. With only six months to the poll, senior counsel Ahmednasir Abdullahi believes Ruto will bag the majority of the undecided voters. The sensational lawyer opined that the undecided Kenyans will rather side with Ruto than Raila owing to the latter's close ties with President Uhuru Kenyatta. According to Ahmednasir, Uhuru's fixation with Azimio La Umoja leaves a cloud of doubt in the minds of Kenyans about whether he is up for something good for the country. He appears to suggest that the President's big role in Azimio is an eyeopener to many that something fishy could be in the offing in the event the Azimio team wins the Presidency. It is on that backdrop that he says many will rather gamble with Ruto than take the risk with the Azimio camp. "The biggest factor pushing the "neutral/undecided" voters to DP Ruto's side is the oversized role and secret agenda H.E Uhuru has in the Azamio arrangement," he said in a tweet on Sunday. And posed: "Why should a retiring president hold the biggest sway in Azimio?" The Jubilee- ODM NDC on Saturday exposed Uhuru's major role in patronaging the Azimio team. Speaker after speaker reiterated the need for the President to ensure that the Azimio- One Kenya Alliance stays put and wins the presidency in the August 9 polls. Uhuru was also candid in saying that he will rally various parties in ensuring that Azimio remains united and bags the presidency. The President said they will have deliberations that will see one man fronted for the presidency and who will face off with Ruto for the top seat.