You will have more empowering experience online when you are sharing with the people you care about and engaging with communities that interest you the most. This is why on this Year’s Safer Internet Day, Meta would like to celebrate young people’s role in creating a safer internet by sharing some tools you need to manage your network and connect with the content that you will most enjoy. The first tip is defining your circle. To get the best experience out of your interactions with people online, it is safer to connect, like and follow people and pages that you share the same interests with and also those whom you have common friends with. One should always remember to manage their network by friending people they know and following people they find interesting but do not know personally such as a celebrity. You can also unfollow and unfriend pages of people and celebrities whenever you like. You can also choose to block profiles of people you no longer want to be in touch with. When you block someone, they will not be able to find you in search, start conversations with you or see things you post. In addition, people you block can no longer tag you invite you to events or groups, or add you as a friend. Reporting violating content is another tip. There is a link nearly on every Meta post for reporting abuse, bullying, harassment and other issues. Their global terms work 24 hours to review things that you report and remove anything that violates their community standards and the vast majority of reports are reviewed within the 24 hours. The best way to report abusive content or spam, is by using the report link that appears near the content itself. To report the post, photo or comment, you will click on the top right and choose an option that best describes the issue then follow the on-screen instructions. Another tip is keeping your account safe. The first and most important step in ensuring your account is safe is your password. They need to be easy for you to remember but at the same time hard for an intruder to figure out. Engagement control is another tip. When you want to take a break from someone, you can change your privacy settings that will help you see less of their photos, posts or comments when they are tagged in. they will also see less of yours. Managing notifications fatigue is also one of the tips. If your phone is always lighting up and blinking with notifications that are distracting, you can now manage this for a better social media experience. You will adjust the notification settings in three way by clicking the top right corner and select settings, clicking notifications on the left and the last option is by clicking to adjust how you get notifications and what you get notified about.