Deputy President William Ruto has alleged that the Mombasa Port has been hijacked by corrupt leaders. He said the port is surrounded by cartels and brokers who are interfering with the normal functioning of the port leaving Mombasa people in poverty. "Our Mombasa port has been encircled by cartels and brokers making Mombasa look like an abandoned city," he said. He said his government will provide better education for the youth to gain excellent skills in the management of port operations and logistics, marine and housing. Ruto spoke in Kwale when he led the Kenya Kwanza Alliance campaign tours. He said his government has better plans to deal with corruption assuring the coastal people of better fishing and agricultural opportunities. The DP said that through the fish port in Shimoni, he will promote the blue economy and transform the lives of the locals. Ruto said he will rescue the Coast from corrupt individuals and put massive development for the locals to benefit. He said his government will focus on addressing hunger and unemployment but not power-sharing. "Our first agenda is to set aside money for agro-processing, value addition, manufacturing and marine for youth to get employment and become self-dependent," he said. Ruto said the bottom-up economic model is the best approach in improving the unstable economy. He said through the newly formed Kenya Kwanza alliance, they will ensure Kenya is protected against tribal leaders. "About 180 Kenyan MPs have united to stop tribal politics, unfairness and restore dignity," he said. He said they want to form a government where all Kenyans will be included and not sidelined on basis of tribalism or racism. Ruto cautioned locals to be vigilant and shun leaders who are angry for powers. He was accompanied by Ford Kenya and ANC leaders Moses Wetangula and Musalia Mudavadi. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her Kilifi North counterpart Owen Baya, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Kandara MP Alice Wohome, among others were also present. Edited by B.Marita