Uasin Gishu and Nakuru have been struck off the list of violence hotspot counties ahead of the general elections in August. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has mapped out 21 regions that remain risky for chaos ahead of polls. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia said leaders from the two counties led by their governors have integrated residents to ensure the areas are no longer violence hotspots during elections. Kobia spoke on Friday at the NCIC headquarters. He named Kisumu, Mombasa, Nairobi, Migori, Kericho, Isiolo, Lamu, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia as hotspots. Others include Marsabit, Kiambu, Nyamira, Homa Bay, Nandi, Bomet, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Garissa and Siaya. He said the hotspots were identified based on the history of election-related violence, having many informal settlements whose populations are often vulnerable to manipulation and large populations which are potential flashpoints. Kobia said violence is likely to be exacerbated by 2022 politics in multi-ethnic areas and areas with organised criminal gangs. Other areas include those prone to fake news, propaganda and disinformation and counties with potential for hate speech and high-security threats. He said other parameters used include cross-border areas with divergent political affiliations and contestation during party nominations. Also, potential for spill over to or ignite other areas, areas with low trust in the judiciary or court processes and pre-existing local capacity to manage conflict. "The commission will brief Kenyans on the state of peace in the nation after every two weeks starting today in order to build trust and reduce violence. "I urge Kenyans to partner with the commission for us to reach our goal of 2022 election bila noma year," the chairman said. Kobia also warned of rising cases of hate speech in social media which is mostly propagated by politicians, citing a rise of 20 per cent since the year began. He said due to the rising cases, the commission has formed 34 forums and pages which will closely monitor all social media pages. "This will help reduce hate speech in social media that can result in violence during the election period," he added. Kobia mentioned 49 cases that are under different stages of active investigation. The cases include 22 cases at Communication Authority, two cases from the cybercrime unit, and 25 cases for statement recording and further evidence to be collected. "We plan to implement targeted peacebuilding campaigns in all the former eight regions. The campaigns target local peace structures, youth, women, the ordinary citizens," the commission said. The exercise will focus on town hall meetings, barazas, sports, arts, edutainment, dialogue and mediation forums. The commission said they are working with multi agencies including the ODPP, DCI and the judiciary to ensure cases of hate speech and ethnic contempt achieve a conviction. Recently, the commission said Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala disregarded their summons. "We are working to ensure no perpetrators of elections violence, hate speech or ethnic sidelining goes unpunished," Kobia said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)