Trouble is brewing at City Hall after county staff threatened to take industrial action over failure of by county to remit their statutory deductions. Governor Ann Kananu's administration has been put in a spot over an alleged diversion of more than Sh560 million staff fund to unauthorised expenditures. The staff have accused City Hall of failing to remit their statutory deductions and union dues despite making a requisition to the Controller of Budget. The diverted funds include statutory deductions and union dues amounting to Sh490.47 million between October and December 2021 as well as Sh70 million staff claims for January. In a letter, Kenya County Government Workers Union general secretary Roba Duba now demands immediate remittance of all deductions without any further delay or they take action. He explained that failure to pay the deductions has exposed the staff to untold suffering with those having banks being penalised for actions outside their control. “Be warned, failure to pay all the deductions within 21 days will leave us with no option but to institute serious industrial action against you and holding the concerned officers personally responsible to consequences thereof,” reads the letter dated January 28, 2022. The letter was addressed to the county secretary Jairus Musumba and copied to Governor Kananu, Controller of Budget, CS for finance and labor and Chief officer for finance. At the same time, the union has called for investigation and audit of the county government’s expenditure during the period under focus. Raising the alarm, KCGWU Nairobi staff branch secretary Festus Ngari in a letter dated January 26, 2022 stated that the diverted funds are for the months of October and December, 2021. The unremitted deductions include sacco loans, pension, NHIF, NSSF, PAYE, salaries, welfare, and Union dues. “Our branches wish to bring to your attention blatant diversion of funds authorised by your office and channeling them to other unauthorised activities,” reads in part the letter addressed to the Controller of Budget Dr Margaret Nyakang'o. “Further Sh70 million on staff claims obtained in the month of January, 2022 was diverted having been requisitioned and obtained authority for gross salary but opted to release to employers only net pay,” added the letter . The union now wants Nyakang'o to conduct an investigation and audit of the work plans for the months of October, November and December 2021 to ascertain that public money was used prudently and responsibly. “This should not bar you from holding all further requisitions from Nairobi County government until workers are paid in full together with the related institutions if your office deems it fit and necessary,” Ngari said the diversion has resulted in county employees’ funds being frozen by different financial institutions and being charged exorbitant default penalties on their loans. “The failure to remit deductions has meted irreparable damages and untold suffering to employees as financial institutions attach the paid net salaries and in other circumstances freezing all the funds in their accounts, exorbitant default penalties denying them their only available financial survival,” continued the letter. "Further, the City Hall staff have also been negatively reported to the Credit Reference Bureau hence denying them the chance to access credit facilities due to “greed of a few county officials and financial indiscipline”. “Clearly the institutions that rely on check off deductions have been financially strangled and cannot survive, further complicating the life of the same employees subjected to pecuniary embarrassment since saccos cannot offer loans and NHIF cannot offer medical attention sending them to avoidable deaths,” added the letter. The Star contacted County Chief Officer for Finance Mohamed Sahal for a comment on the issue but he could not give an explanation, saying he was currently away from office. (Edited by Tabnacha O)