Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi's Development Empowerment Party, has launched a members registration drive in Mt Kenya East. The exercise was launched on Thursday at the party chairman Lenny Kivuti's residence in Kanyuambora. The exercise, which will take place at each polling station in all the county wards, aims at registering over 400,000 members in the next one month. Present during the launch were Runyenjes Central MCA and constituency MP aspirant Steve Simba, Muminji MCA Newton Karish and Embu senatorial aspirant and former Mungania tea factory director Samuel Mwafrika. Kivuti who is a former Embu senator and is eying governorship  said it is only through registration that members can have their say in party nominations, hence they should not take it for granted. “If you see an individual avoiding a polling station that means they are not registered and don’t have a chance to elect me as the governor. "I want everyone to be a registered member of Bus party as well as registered voter so that I can have enough votes,” Kivuti said. He told members who would like to join but are facing uncertainty of double registration that he will ensure their name will only appear once upon their consent and registration to Bus party. “I will be visiting each polling station and meeting with party delegates upon them hitting our target. I am looking forward to registering over 400,000 members,” Kivuti said. He urged residents to continue registering as voters to ensure they have a say as a party in the region. The chairman said Mt Kenya East has been missing its national share. He said voting in leaders as a united party will guarantee the region and the county bargaining power. Kivuti also said the party is looking forward to setting up a party centre at Embu town for easy access, adding  that the party is a national one and is ready to welcome anyone from the country. MCA Karish urged residents to remain united and register in the party to help it hit targeted goals. He said the party is looking forward to venturing more into the national level. He urged members not to be intimidated by larger parties which came before DEP saying members will always join the party of their choice. “The first man to engage a beautiful woman is not a guarantee he will marry that woman,” Karish said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)