Solicitor General Ken Ogeto has admitted to skewed staffing at the State Law Office. He said it will take time to correct the anomaly. The office defended itself from reports of ethnic imbalance in one of its critical organs – the Business Registration Service. Ogeto appeared before the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee on Monday to respond to queries raised by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in her 2019-20 report. Gathungu flagged ethnic imbalance at the office. The National Cohesion and Integration Act, 2008 states that not more than a third of the total employees in one public institution should be from one ethnic group. “The Service had 130 staff assigned to Business Registration Service from the State Law Office. However, as previously reported, a review of the ethnic composition report indicated out of the 130 staff assigned, 46 were from the same ethnic community representing 35 per cent of the total number of staff assigned,” the report reads. “This is contrary to Section 7 (2) of National Cohesion and Integration Act, 2008, which states that no public establishment shall have more than one-third of its staff from the same ethnic community.” Ogeto also admitted to gender imbalance but said they have instituted measures to address the bias. He told the oversight committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi the office is determined to comply with the Cohesion Act. “It is true there was non-compliance with National Cohesion and Integration Act during the year under review since Business Registration Services was working with staff inherited from the State Law Office and DOJ,” Ogeto said. “It is not a matter you can address instantly, it must be gradual.” Gathungu highlighted Sh40.4 million pending bills at the State Law Office, which she said had the potential of adversely affecting the provisions of the subsequent year to which they have to be charged. In response, Ogeto said the office could not clear the bills due to inadequate Exchequer releases. Edited by Kiilu Damaris