Garissa residents are urging politicians to promise what they can deliver once in office. They said politicians have a tendency of appealing to the electorate with promises they can't fulfill. The residents spoke on Tuesday during an election awareness meeting by a group of local activists. Fatuma Badhi, a resident, said for a long time politicians have lied to Kenyans especially during campaign time. She said the youth of today who form the majority of the population are educated, enlightened and can differentiate between lies and truth. “As you come to campaign, make sure you tell us things that you can deliver. Let your manifestos be realistic, otherwise it will not business as usual,” Badhi said. Another resident, Abdi Rashid Sheikh said gone are the days when politicians used to promise things that they could not deliver. He said those with the intention of doing so better stop. “We have seen them come with promises and huge manifestos. But when you listen keenly, you realise that all they are interested in are votes and that is it,” Sheikh said. He said the youth should be keen not to fall for this trick. On his part, Mohamed Khamas thanked the organisers of the forum saying that the knowledge imparted to them on the kind of leaders to elect will come in handy in the august polls. He said the youth should not be used by self-seeking politicians to cause chaos or bloodshed. Khamas said it is important to maintain peace before, during and after the elections. The two leading presidential  aspirants ODM’s Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto in a bid to woo voters have come up with several pledges that they have promised to implement once elected. Raila has promised a social protection programme that would give poor families a Sh6,000 monthly stipend while Ruto has been advancing his bottom-up economic model. Ruto said his model is focused on the jobless, struggling ‘hustler’ enterprises and those who can’t put food on the table. On the other hand Raila said he knows where to get the Sh137 billion annually for his programme. The have both defended their pledges as realistic and doable. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)