Claims that the Jubilee administration rigged the 2017 polls and would try to do the same in favour of ODM chief Raila Odinga have rattled members of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. Speaking in Nakuru county in different rally stopovers, members of the alliance led by Deputy President William Ruto castigated remarks as "unfortunate " and meant to "trigger electoral violence." Speaking in Olenguruon, Njoro, Gilgil and Rongai, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said it was unfortunate that the Azimio La Umoja group was allegedly resorting to threats of rigging the election. He said electoral violence that occur every five years is often triggered by instances of malpractice. Clips emerged on Thursday evening showing the Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege claiming that there was "some truth" in the rumour that Jubilee stole the 2017 election. She said nothing would stop them from doing the same in August to ensure Raila wins the August 9 polls. “If you been talking about uniting the country, you in Azimio should be the last to talk about stealing election. This is a bad statement being sold to Kenyans, and we shall not allow the polls to be stolen. Azimio La Umoja has now become Azimio la wizi,” Musalia said. He went on: “Now that they are sensing defeat, they have started giving us threats and even telling us openly how they plan to steal the election.” The Amani leader added that Kenya Kwanza Alliance stands for free, fair and credible polls that reflects the wishes of the people. The alliance brings together Ruto, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia. Wetang’ula challenged IEBC to come clear on the vote stealing allegations, claiming that the state had taken captive all institutions, including independent agencies like the IEBC and the Judiciary. “I want to ask IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to come clear on the unfortunate statement by the Murang’a legislator. He should explain and tell Kenyans how the 2017 election was stolen,” he said. Wetang’ula asked the youth and the unregistered eligible voters to register and come out in numbers on voting day and jealously guard the vote against the said planned stealing. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to explain to Kenyans and dissociate himself from the rigging remarks. “I want President Uhuru to explain to Kenyans if he sat down and discussed with Sabina Chege on stealing the elections and imposing Raila Odinga on Kenyans against their wish,” he said. Ruto downplayed the rigging remarks, saying he has been in government long enough not to have his victory stolen. The Deputy President said no machinery will be used to impose a leadership on Kenyans, adding that only the will of the electorate, through a fair voting process will be allowed to determine the next president. “Those who want to plan the politics of our country are the same people who have taken captive our economy and country. We want every Kenyan to be allowed to decide the destiny of our nation by himself not by individuals in hotels and boardrooms,” Ruto said. He added that the alliance has agreed to deal with four issues as areas of priority once they assume office. This includes setting aside Sh100 billion to boost the welfare of the youth as well as building more Technical and Vocational Education and Training instutions. He added that the administration will invest a further Sh50 billion in small businesses and traders. Ruto further said the alliance will invest enough money in the agriculture sector to help cut down the cost of production and ensure more food is produced to make the country food secure. He also said by the end of the year, every Kenyan will have an NHIF card and those with no income will be paid for by the state. He did not however explain how these promises would be achieved.  (edited by Amol Awuor)