On Sunday, presidential aspirant Raila Odinga sent tongues wagging after he penned a message on social media vowing to take Harambee Stars to the Africa Cup of Nations if he gets a chance to lead the country. The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader said his government would invest heavily in football. "Congratulations Senegal on winning. I promise the legion of Kenyan soccer fans that under my administration, Harambee Stars will be at the next Afcon," Raila said. "We’ll invest in football starting with grassroots/mtaani and community clubs," he said. Raila's words are, indeed, music to the ears of thousands of ardent Kenyan soccer fans who have endured decades of endless heartbreaks as the local football scene degenerates from bad to worse. Undoubtedly, Kenya has had a share of its glorious seasons, having appeared in six Africa Cup of Nations tournaments, but never reaching the second round. Perhaps, the team could turn around their fortunes with increased government goodwill and support. Viewed from an angle devoid of the drab political rhetorics, Raila's words carry a lot of weight. It will be interesting to observe how he will juggle politics with football considering the two entities have made strange bedfellows over time. Kenya's troubles in football have mainly emanated from its association with politics. For instance, the world football governing body, Fifa, suspended Kenya from all football activities for three months in 2004, due to the interference of the government in football activities. The ban was reversed after the country agreed to create new statutes. However, on October 25, 2006, Kenya was handed yet another ban for failing to fulfill a January 2006 agreement made to resolve an impasse. The suspension came after then sports minister Maina Kamanda dissolved the Kenyan Football Federation (KFF) and replaced it with a government-appointed caretaker committee against the existing Fifa statutes. Fifa said the suspension followed a recommendation by the continental football governing body Caf and a clarion call made by the interim KFF president, Mohamed Hatimy. Both Caf and Hatimy cited repeated government interference in local football affairs and non-compliance with the agreement reached with Fifa on fundamental sporting principles such as the integrity of competitions and the principle of promotion and relegation. The world football governing body later lifted the ban after Kamanda was overwhelmed by growing national and international pressure. As we speak, a prolonged stalemate pitting the government against the ousted Nick Mwendwa Football Kenya Federation threatens to take a toll on the country's football. This follows a decision taken by Sports Minister Amina Mohamed in November last year, to disband Mwendwa's administration and constitute a caretaker committee led by Justice Aaron Ringera to run football in the country. Already, the future of the women's national team, Harambee Starlets, in the Africa Women Cup of Nations hangs in the balance after former FKF chief executive officer Barry Otieno stealthily wrote a letter to Caf withdrawing the team from the qualifiers while citing undue interference. Until the country learns to borrow pertinent lessons from history, Raila's dream for a splendid Kenyan performance at Afcon will merely remain a pipe dream. What's important is the willingness of all stakeholders to sit at the same table and resolve to work amicably. 