Kenya Sevens stalwarts Collins Injera, Billy Odhiambo, Willy Ambaka, and Oscar Ouma have been called up to the Simbas' provisional squad ahead of Rugby World Cup qualifiers slated for July in France. Other new faces in the squad include Oilers' Chrispine Shitundo, Alex Aturo (Mwamba), Felix Ojow and Max Kangeri (KCB), Patrick Kluivert ( Strathmore),  Archadius Kwesa (Blak Blad), and veteran KCB lock Oliver Mangeni. In total 81 players have been called up to the squad including 66 local and 15 foreign-based with training slated to start on Thursday. The sessions will mainly focus on strength and conditioning, according to the coach. Head coach Paul Odera said some players have excelled in the Kenya Cup and put their hand up. "Some players from the 2021 team have lost form and have been excluded from this year’s selection. There are players who are playing very well in the Kenya Cup and are ready for selection, and then we have players based overseas,” added Odera. He added: "We’re glad to welcome back Geoffrey Okwach and Davis Chenge from a foot injury and a concussion respectively. Unfortunately, Griffin Musila is still in rehab after undergoing knee surgery late last year and we are keeping tabs on him as we work on his Return to Play Protocol,” he added. The 66 players have been divided into three teams based on their locations. The Nairobi-based players will train with Michael Owino; western-based players will be under Richard Ochieng while Odera is in talks with Menengai Oilers technical team to see how they will assist with the Rift Valley-based players. “Once the Kenya Cup league is over, we shall review the players and cut the team down to 40 players before settling on a squad of 35n for the RWC Qualifiers. This is a very important year for the Simbas and the Kenya Rugby Union as we look to make the World  Cup for the first time in July,” said Odera Provisional Squad: Loosehead Props: Ian Njenga(Nondies), Joseph Odero(Kabras), Andrew Siminyu(University of Jo’burg), Edward Mwaura (Menengai); Hookers: Bonface Ochieng (Quins), Wilfred Waswa (KCB), Eugene Sifuna(Kabras), Teddy Akala(Kabras), Stanley Isogol(Menengai), Coleman Were(Oilers) and Toby Francombe (Scotland). Tighthead Props: Patrick Ouko (KCB), Manasseh Oduor (KCB), Paul Opiyo (Mwamba), Ephraim Oduor (Kabras), Miles Rotuk Rahedi (Kutztown University-USA). Locks: Oliver Mang’eni (KCB), Frank Aduda- (Impala Saracens), Brian Juma (Kabras ), Shem Joseph(Kabras), Wallace Otieno(Menengai), Thomas Okeyo(Top Fry), Emmanuel Silungi(Tel Aviv, Israel), Malcolm Onsando (Dinamo Bucharesti-Romania). Blindside Flankers: Davis Chenge (KCB), Bethwel Anami (Strathmore), George Nyambua (Kabras), Samuel Onsongo-(Menengai), Chrispin Shitundo(Menengai ). Openside Flankers: Martin Owila (KCB), Fidel Oloo (Nondies), Brian Amaitsa (Nondies), Daniel Sikuta (Kabras), John Akuei Monate(Tigers), Cameron Coulson(Richmond RFC- England), Brayden Barrat (Durham University London – England) and Oscar Ouma(Zastava RFC- Russia). Number 8s: Elkeans Musonye Impala), Alex Aturo (Mwamba), Felix Ojow (KCB), Steven Sakari(Kabras ), Mark Mutuku (Notre Dame Athletic – USA). Scrum halves: Samuel Asati(KCB), Brian Wahinya(KCB), Mickey Wanjala(KCB), Barry Robinson(Kabras Sugar RFC), Brian Tanga(Kabras Sugar RFC), Samson Onsomu(Menengai Oilers). Fly-halves: Anthony Omondi(Mwamba RFC), Charles Kuka(Mwamba RFC), Jone Kubu(Kabras Sugar RFC), Owain Ashley Lloyd(Cardiff University RFC-Wales), Dominic Coulson(Exeter University RFC-England). Inside Centres: Max Kangeri (KCB), Collins Injera(Mwamba), John Okoth(Menengai), Brad Owako (Dubai Exiles), Patrick Kluivert (Strathmore), Max Omondi (Catholic Monks), and  Charles Tendwa (South Coast Pirates). Outside Centers: Vincent Onyala (KCB), Peter Kilonzo(KCB), Bryceson Adaka(Kabras Sugar RFC). Wingers: Andrew Matoka(Strathmore), Archadius Khwesa(Blak Blad), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Michael Kimwele(KCB), Geoffrey Okwach(KCB), Billy Odhiambo(Mwamba RFC), Beldad Ogeta (Menengai), William Ambaka (Zastava). Full Backs: Darwin Mukidza(KCB), Isaac Njoroge(KCB), Samuel Oliech(Impala Saracens), Jefferey Mutuku(Notre Dame Athletic-USA).      