Women with both short and long hair can spice up the look by adding any cap or hat design. They range from fedora hats, bucket caps, cowboy hats, cloches, newsboy caps, fishermen caps and boater style. There is a slight difference between a hat and a cap. A cap is a type of hat, but the hat usually has an all-around brim and the cap is brimless. Wearing a hat represents authority and power because it covers the head. The choice of a hat is dependent on the type of hairstyle. For instance, a woman with short hair wearing a fedora hat will have to wear it behind the head. But one with concentrated long hair will have an easy time balancing a fedora hat on their head. SOMBRERO HAT Sombrero is a broad-brimmed, high-crowned hat made of felt or straw. It is often worn in Mexico and the southwestern United States. In Africa, most women wear this type of hats to a beach or a fancy event. It is meant to protect the face from sunburns in the beach. For indoor occasions, it provides a shelter from too much light. BERET CAP Apart from scouts and a number of police officers, civilian men and women can also wear beret caps. The cap is soft, round and flat-crowned cap, usually of woven material. It can be worn flat on top of the head about three-quarters of the way up the forehead and an inch or so behind the ears. The brim is tucked in to keep the hat in place. One side of the beret is pulled down, making it slant, that slanting position makes it more elegant. COCKTAIL CAP A cocktail cap is brimless and small; it only fits a section of the head. Cocktail hats sit just above the rights eyebrow, about a finger's width. One can wear them with any elegant cocktail dress or pantsuit for any evening function. In the African set-up, most women also wear cocktail caps in funerals. The idea is to cover the emotional mood of the day. BUCKET CAP Bucket caps have a narrow downward sloping brim. They go well with long hair, which firmly holds it. Most street wear is complemented with sneakers and a bucket cap. One can spice things up by pairing them with shorts and a polo shirt in a pale shade. Alternatively, you could try sweatpants or chinos with an oversized graphic T-shirt.