While we seem to have settled the issue of term limits at the presidential, woman representative and governor level, the dynamics and principles of this democratic remains problematic in Kenya. The proper achievement of this desirable approach to politics that has among other advantages such as stability, respect to constitutionalism, dynamic leadership, accountability and creation of space for new blood in political management, politicians in the country are determined to frustrate this. Selfishness, greed for power, and misguided sense of entitlement within the political class is standing in the way for respecting this requirement. President Uhuru Kenyatta and 21 governors have cleared their first 10 years and are vacating office, after the August 2022 General Election. As with tradition, over 50 per cent of senators, Members of Parliament, Women Reps and Members of County Assembly, are likely not to make a comeback after the election. The most irritating thing is that many of the governors instead of being satisfied with the 10 years they have done in the spirit of term limits, and the benefits therein, many want to switch seats, and cling to political power. Many of the retiring governors want to become senators or MPs. Woman Reps who have served for 10 years want to move to other seats clinging to power in the pretext of expanding affirmative action and mention democracy in the same sentences. Obviously, many of the people who have expressed interest in changing positions have performed poorly or below average in their current positions, and that guilty consciousness is the sole reason for wanting to hang on. While outside the constitutional term limit placed on the presidency is definite, the term limits of the governor’s positions does not bar the individuals from standing in other positions, it is only fair that guys who have served their 10 years vacate office and create room for others or new people to serve Kenyans. Its shameful for a guy who has served as a governor for 10 years to again seeking at MP’s seat or woman representative – give way to others and provide opportunity for others to offer new ideas. Its not different from other guys we have seen on the continent clinging to power and promoting dictatorship. You cant want to remain permanent politicians and talk of democracy in the same statement. Katiba Institute with the support of the National Democratic Institute has published a book entitles: Controlling Power: Presidential Term Limits , which extensively explains the concept of control of power with focus on presidential term limits and how this contributes to good governance. The publication lists the benefits of term limits as including encouraging of peaceful transfer of power, creating a level playing field during campaign and elections, encouraging of emergence of new leaders and accountability, enhances respect for civil rights and rule of law and promoting stability in regions. Elections in Kenya are very expensive and for someone to serve for 10 years within their term limits and want to change to other seats is disturbing. Why cling on electoral positions as if its life and death, if its only for serving people. What is in it that guys can't leave the stage like in other places. A study by Prof. Karuti Kanyinga and Tom Mboya on behalf of South Consulting Africa Limited entitled “The cost of politics in Kenya” that gives a different scenario in the country. The established that in the 2017 general election, senators spent Sh 49m, women representative Sh 32.2m, Member of Parliament Sh21.2m and Member of County Assembly Sh 4.2m to win the election and those losing spent Sh 20.3 million, Sh 13.4m, Sh 14.9m and Sh 2.1m respectively. This study established that the Senate seat is the most expensive of all the posts to contest for costing an average of Sh35.5m (US$ 350,000) to contest for this seat in 2017. Contestants for the Woman Representative seats followed with an average expenditure of Sh22.8m (US$ 228,000). Members of parliament averaged Sh18.2m (US$ 182,000), while the Member of County Assembly seat was the least expensive at Sh3.1 million (US$ 31,000). These costs are predominantly raised from individual’s personal savings or with the support of friends or family. Less than 20% of survey respondents received financial support directly from their political party. The survey found that, overall, the more a candidate spends, the greater their chance of electoral victory. Woman Rep candidates who won their race spent almost three times as much as those who were unsuccessful. Victorious Senators spent more than double than those who lost. In the race for National Assembly seats successful candidates spent 50% more than those who did not win. In addition to significant expenditure, the support of a dominant party enhances candidate’s chances significantly. On average elected members of the National Assembly spend as much as Sh780,000 (US$ 7,800) a month: primarily on development projects for constituents and donations to local interest groups. This is more than their basic monthly salary before allowances and benefits. A similar trend of monthly expenditure matching or being greater than basic salary income was reported across all four positions studied. The spirit of the Niamey Declaration on terms, limits and peaceful transfer of power while in many countries applies to the presidency, in countries like Kenya, we need them to extend to the position of Governors, so that ensure stability, transition in leadership and creating space for new leaders to emerge. Political parties that strongly believe in democracy, should streamline this term limit to apply to all elected positions. Retiring governors and others should not frustrate peaceful transition of power in their counties for the mere sake of selfishness but should thank the voters and allow them make the next decision to elect other leaders without coercion or intimidation. People should serve and peaceful leave without feeling sorry for their actions or commission or omission. Such leaders are standing in the way of democracy in their counties and should feel ashamed.