If you are an influential person, holding office or having the power to change people’s minds the Ministry of Education will soon reach out to you. You will be required to go to the grassroots level, in counties and nationally to change people’s perception of the Competency-Based Curriculum. State Department for Curriculum Reforms and Implementation PS Fatuma Chege said politicians can take part in this awareness. Speaking during the education committee on budget policy statements, Chege said misinformation is the greatest challenge to CBC  implementation. Chege said this prompted the inception of a multi-sectoral technical committee on communication that deals with misinformation and giving facts. “We would want you to be our CBC ambassadors,” Chege said. The ambassadors will be selected using criteria developed by the ministry. They will undergo capacity building and training to understand the curriculum. “To be an ambassador you need to understand and feel the spirit of CBC, the capacity building in creating awareness is an activity we have planned and budgeted for,” Chege said These ambassadors will use their positions to enlighten people, for example; musicians, athletes, politicians, artists, actors, and opinion shapers. Other means used by the department to deal with misinformation are training and reacting to some of the lies. For instance, the editors guild in collaboration with the Education ministry held several training sessions on CBC reporting. This is meant to elaborate jargon used in reporting the curriculum. For example, the issue of hosting junior secondary learners, either in primary school has elicited reactions. “When an education officer talks about domiciling junior secondary school,  a reporter will say it will be hosted, accommodated. Domiciling means the building belongs there but accommodation means they don’t belong there,” Chege said. Some issues that have been raised by education stakeholders and leaders that seem to belittle the curriculum have been dismissed by the state. They include gross expenses, parental involvement, rush to implement, and confusing children. The junior secondary was not allocated any funds in the 2022/2023 financial year. The state department for early learning and basic education requested Sh28.9 million towards the transition of Grade 6 learners to junior secondary school. Edited by Kiilu Damaris