Agriculture CS Peter Munya is still undecided on which political seat he will vie in the August polls. Munya said he wants to vie for Meru governor but will abandon the seat if he gets a national seat. The CS has been going around the country campaigning for Azimio la Umoja. He has been proposed as one of the preferred people from Mt Kenya to be Raila Odinga’s running mate in the presidential race. Munya said he wants to run for governor but at the same time he will not refuse if he is picked to be Raila’s running mate. “If a bigger seat like that comes, I will not refuse. However, when you want to be someone's running mate you are like a bride. "You don’t go to out to men telling them to come and marry you, they will run away. You dress nicely and go out there, then the man who wants to marry you will approach you,” Munya said. The CS spoke on Monday at Gitoro showground in North Imenti, Meru,  where he met about 8,000 farmers. Munya was accompanied by MPs Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Kathuri Murungi (South Imenti) and Mpuru Aburi (EALA). The MPS said they will support Munya in the seat he wishes to undertake. Dawood said Munya delivered when he was governor and is doing a tremendous job in the Agriculture ministry. “I am urging those who are running for president to pick him, I urge the people of Meru and leaders to support him. "Merupeople should not be pulling each other down because if one of our own ascends to power, we will benefit,” Dawood said. The MP urged Mt Kenya West to support Munya's quest to be Raila’s running mate. Aburi said whoever wants to be voted as president by the Meru community should talk ‘nicely’ to Munya. Munya however ruled out any possibility of working with DP William  Ruto in case he is picked as a running mate. “If it means losing votes or losing a seat then I am ready for it. I would rather lose than join leaders who I know are seeking the seat for their own selfish interest,” he said. The CS said if his arithmetic to be running mate fails he will come back and vie for governor. “A lot of residents are urging me to return to the governor’s seat, as things in Meru are not good. If I fail to clinch the seat I want nationally, then I will go for governor,” Munya said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)