Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga is now an artiste. He has been featured in the song 'Lero Lero' by popular Luhya vernacular star Emmanuel Musindi. Baba, as he calls himself in the song, added his vocals to the hit. "Baba is his brand name." The song will be unveiled on Musindi's YouTube channel. Speaking to Word Is, music director Majimaji said the project took about three to four weeks to be released. Majimaji is the legend known for the biggest political song, 'Unbwogable', in 2002. "Baba's initial response was excitement and the chance to be with young people even made it easy," he said, adding that Baba is naturally young at heart. Baba wore a bomber jacket with Kenyan flag colours. He got on set at 10:40am and left slightly past noon. "His wardrobe reflects he is still very young at heart," he said. Majimaji said getting him on board was organised by Raila's daughter Winnie Odinga, who played a major role. "When he was at the studio it was easy, magic. He fit well with the young people and lights up to young and creative ideas." 'Lero ni Lero', which means 'Today is today', can slightly be explained that people who promise too much tomorrow are not legit. "It is one of his favourite Kenyan songs so he chose to jump on the beat and be part of it. He first fell in love with it on the 'Azimio la Umoja Movement' in December last year. The video took a day to shoot by director Nezzo and was recorded in Kawangware FP Records. "It was easy for him because most of the words he sang are those he uses on his normal day to day activities," he said. "He captures the possibility of a prosperous nation, needs for unity and the promise of a transformed nation in his rallying call, 'Inawezekana'. Raila has many times been supportive in the entertainment industry. "He is passionate about the creative industry, the young and innovation. That is why he is keen on ensuring the artistes get the deserved revenue share." Raila's fans and followers should expect more music and club bangers.