Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has won big in the first round of a battle with the Director of Public Prosecutions in his Sh7.5 billion graft case. Whereas the DPP wanted the hearing brought forward, a magistrate on Wednesday declined that application. It means the MP will not have to juggle between campaign podiums and court hearings as the matter will now be heard starting September, a month after the August general election. Gachagua is among possible running mates for Deputy President William Ruto. In dismissing the application, magistrate Rose Makungu said the DPP was being mischievous as they were present when the court set the hearing dates of the case for September. She said the application lacked merit and directed the DPP to supply evidence they intend to use during trial. The state has lined up 45 witnesses and documentary evidence running to more than 900 pages. The DPP, through state prosecutor Vera Hamisa, asked the court to review the dates, citing guidelines on economic crimes cases. Cases of such nature, he said, should be finalised within 24 months. She said going by the number of witnesses they have, and the hearing dates in September, it will be impossible to finalise the case within deadline. In the case, Gachagua faced six counts of economic crimes, including conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, money laundering and fraudulent acquisition of public property. He is believed to have fraudulently received Sh7 billion through three different bank accounts, in his name, at Rafiki Microfinance Bank. He received the cash between 2013 and 2020 in Nairobi. On the charge of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, Gachagua is charged alongside William Wahome, Anne Ruo, Julianne Makaa, Samuel Ireri, Grace Wambui, Lawrence Kimaru, Irene Wambui, David Nyangi and M/S Rapid Medical Supplies Limited. The 10 are accused of conspiring to defraud Nyeri county of Sh27 million between May 2015 and December 2016. The matter will be mentioned on February 24 to confirm compliance.  (edited by Amol Awuor)