Azimio La Umoja leaders from western on Friday lashed out at their Kenya Kwanza counterparts in the region terming them as selfish and self-centred politicians. Addressing a rally at Posta Grounds in Bungoma town, the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) and ODM leaders vowed to erase the support ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula enjoyed in the region. DAP-K leader Wafula Wamunyinyi revealed that there were talks in Azimio to field one candidate to take on Wetang'ula in the senatorial contest. “We must have a very strong person who will take Wetang'ula home. We are having that discussion because the Ford Kenya leader must lose his seat. If he does not go home, Bungoma will not change,” said Wamunyinyi. During the rally, Azimio La Umoja received over 10 MCAs from western region who defected from Ford Kenya and ANC. Wamunyinyi, who is also the MP for Kanduyi, censured Wetang'ula for “opposing every development project” initiated by Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati. “We must come together in Azimio. We want a senator who will work with the governor, one who will cooperate with other leaders and is not self-centred,” he added. Luanda MP Chris Omulele said they were also courting leaders still allied to Mudavadi to join Azimio movement. He said they also convincing ANC MPs ditch Kenya Kwanza to join the movement. “Mudavadi will be left with only one MP and we will field a very strong candidate to beat the legislator of his rural constituency,” he said. The Azimio La Umoja rally in Bungoma came one week after Kenya Kwanza leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula held a meeting at the same venue. It was held only five days after Mudavadi and Wetang'ula teamed up with Ruto. On Friday, governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Wilbur Otichillo (Vihiga) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) vowed to lock western region for ODM leader Raila Odinga. “We are telling Senate speaker Ken Lusaka to join Azimio and support Wangamati. Raila will form the next government and he will have a job for him,” said Oparanya. Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said they are aware UDA politicians want Lusaka to join Kenya Kwanza. Also present at the rally were  DAP-K secretary general Eseli Simiyu, MPs Godfrey Osotsi (Nominated), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu), Chris Omulele (Luanda), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Janet Nangabo (Trans Nzoia County), Reginalda Wanyonyi (Bungoma County, Raphael Wanjala (Budalangi) and Naomi Shinyonga (Nominated senator). Nangabo said she quit Tangatanga team after realising they did not have plans for western region. “When I asked them about their plans for western, no one answered so I looked for Eugene and Eseli,”she added. Osotsi urged western residents to reject Mudavadi and Wetang'ula saying they had failed to unite the community despite being senior politicians from the region. “The two have not helped the community to move forward. They are selfish leaders and that is why they have teamed up with the bottom up proponents,” he added. Kaunya said they left ANC because they did not like where Mudavadi was taking them. “Instead of taking us to Canaan, he was taking us to hell,” he stated.