Thousands of animals in Marsabit county have been affected by the ongoing drought, forcing pastoralists to migrate in search of pasture and water. The drought has significantly affected most families in the county, leaving many destitute as their economy revolves around pastoralism to attain their daily needs through sales and consumption of livestock products. According to Abdi Shedo, a pastoralist in Moyale subcounty, he lost three out of 13 animals and is no sure whether the remaining one will stand the biting drought. He said no one in the region has been spared by the drought, and that getting food to survive remains a great challenge. However, he thanked the Marsabit county and various NGOs which include Food and Agriculture Organisation for offering training to the community on drought resilience. He further thanked them for restocking their animals, buying farm tools and grinder machine that have positively changed the community's fortunes. The severe drought comes at a time when half of the county's population face acute food insecurity, with the number of severely malnourished children in the county on the rise. FAO deputy director-general Beth Bechdol, during a visit of Moyale subcounty, decried the state of the pastoralists, urging both the government and the development partners to increase institutional support and help pastoralists overcome negative effects of drought. She added that information on climate risks to rural community are vital to shape actions against impact of climate change. "We must support farmers and herders who are experiencing the impacts of climate change. We need to... find ways in resource mobilisation," she added. According to Bechdol, the organisation shares a long story in sustaining the region's resilience through livelihood support to strengthen efforts against drought and food security threats. She said through collaborative efforts, the lives and livelihoods of the communities currently experiencing the worst effects of drought can be safeguarded while at the same time protecting the long-term resilience of most households. "Livestock is the backbone of the pastoralists community and their only main source of income, our focus now is to support the pastoralists with their immediate needs." Meanwhile, UN resident coordinator Stephen Jackson said the impact of the current drought in the region needs rapid action by all actors to safeguard the livelihoods of the rural community, adding that the drought conditions were triggered by three consecutive failed rainy seasons. To ease the negative effects of drought,  FAO provided animal feed with at least each vulnerable household receiving 150kg in three wards in Marsabit county. The animal feed will help the livestock to get strength and increase productivity unlike normal feed.  (edited by Amol Awuor)