An Egyptian man sentenced to five years in jail for faking an immigration stamp will now serve two years after winning appeal case. Ezzat Salem Abdelfattan who faked an immigration stamp to enable him travel to Malaba was convicted on his own plea of guilty in September last year. He was sentenced to serve five years in jail or pay a fine of Sh5 million. He was also sentenced on a second count of being in the country illegally. The trial court sentenced him to one year in jail or pay a fine of Sh100,000. Being aggrieved, he appealed saying the trial court did not consider that he did not understand the court’s language, as he was not fluent in English. He also argued that the magistrate erred in law by passing a sentence that was too harsh, high and excessive in the circumstances and failed to consider his mitigation. "The magistrate erred and grossly misdirected himself in his holding by adopting the facts as read to the appellant. "According to the investigations done, there was no evidence connecting the appellant to terrorism activities in the country. He was therefore, not a threat to the Kenyan national security," the court was told. On February 1, justice George Dulu ruled that since there was no aggravating circumstances in the matter, the maximum sentence imposed by the trial court in count one was not justified. He said the prosecution did not indicate any aggravating facts. "I dismiss the appeal against conviction. With regard to the sentence, I set aside the sentence of a fine of Sh5 million and in default five years imprisonment for count one. "Instead, I order that the appellant pays a fine of Sh2 million and in default serve two years imprisonment for count one from the date he was sentenced by the trial court. "I uphold the sentence of fine of Sh100,000 and in default one year imprisonment imposed by trial court for count two", the judge ruled. Abdelfattan was charged on June 4, 2021 at an unknown place within the Republic of Kenya jointly with others not before court. He was charged with intent to deceive and without lawful authority or excuse forged a Kenyan immigration stamp for Malaba immigration office. He allegedly claimed that the stamp endorsed on his Egyptian passport was a genuine immigration stamp issued by an immigration officer. He was also charged with a second count of being unlawfully present in the country on September 13, 2021 at Makindu Township of Makueni county. The prosecution had allegedly linked him with terrorism activities in the country citing that he was a threat to the country. The High Court found that there was no evidence to back the accusations. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)