Kelewele is a tasty sweet and spicy Ghanaian snack that's usually served as a starter or side dish. It's prepared from cubed ripe plantains which are seasoned with spices then fried until the sugar in the plantain caramelizes, and produces brown edges. They're crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside and are best served with peanuts, rice and creamy stews. Although plantains are widely popular in African countries, especially the West, they're originally from the tropical areas of Southeast Asia. Ingredients Note: Alternatively, you can use these ingredients in their natural form. Like garlic cloves and ginger roots just blend the ingredients if you don't have them in powder form to form the paste for the plantains. Method Evenly rub your hands with cooking oil to avoid the gum from the plantains from sticking to your hands as you work on them. Using a sharp knife, cut a shallow line down the length of the plantain and peel back the skin. Chop the plantains into small bite-sized cubes of about 1 inch into a bowl of water. In a large bowl mix all your spices together with the tablespoon of oil and mix them evenly. Add the cubed plantains into the bowl and rub the spice mix into them with your hands, ensuring all of them are well coated. Let them sit in the spice mix for 30 minutes. Add cooking oil into a large pan and allow it to heat over a medium-high heat source. Note: Before frying, ensure the oil is hot, because if it's not hot enough the cubes will absorb the oil and in turn come out too soft and lodged in oil. Add your spiced plantains into the hot oil in batches so as to allow them to fry well without touching one another. This will help in achieving the right texture. Note: don't overfill the pan or the plantains won't brown evenly. Also, keep a close eye on them when frying as they have a tendency to burn if not well attended to. Allow one side to brown before turning the other one so that both sides can be well cooked, golden and crunchy. Once done remove them from oil and place them on a plate lined with kitchen towels. Transfer them to plates and serve with your stew of preference.