Political parties' nominations are slaughterhouses for women, Kiambu governor aspirant Mwende Gatabaki has said. She said Kenya's political parties glorify money, sideline women and deny them an opportunity to lead. Gatabaki said it is time women stepped out of their comfort zones and fought for their positions in society without fear of facing their male counterparts. “Most women are interested in politics but lose at the party nominations level. As women, we must find a way to go all the way to the ballot,” she said. “At the nomination level, that’s where you either have money, so you are required to finance the party, or you bring numbers. You are given targets even before you are nominated.” Gatabaki, who spoke to the Star in Nairobi, said in most cases women are seen as weak and unable to make tough decisions and that is why not many are in politics or at the top management level in organisations. “When I worked for Kenya Tea Development Authority, we were eight directors, and I was the only woman. When I worked for the Africa Development Bank we were eight advisers but only two women. It is the same in politics, but this trend needs to change,” she said. Gatabaki said the president and the deputy president are men and only two governors out of 47 are women. "I'm calling on women to step out because no one else will do it for us. Going out and meeting people to ask them to vote for you is not the difficult part, but the so-called alignments and party politics makes it hard for us,” she said. “You cannot say that we are not educated because we are educated and we do well in leadership positions. I have held very many senior executive positions. I have been a senior adviser to the president of the ADB.” Gatabaki, who is yet to declare her party of choice, said many women are afraid of entering the political arena due to being looked down upon. “It’s not that we can’t do politics and convince people to vote for us, we only need to be brave,” she said. She is the wife of economist David Ndii and the daughter of former Githunguri MP Peter Gatabaki. She said she was inspired to join politics by her parents, who lived their lives serving the public.