It is now emerging that deputy president William Ruto is in the company of prominent Kenya Kwanza leaders in his tour of the United Kingdom and the United States. Ruto, who left the country on Sunday, has a fully packed itinerary for the 12 days he will be away from perennial political rallies that have characterised his presence in the country in recent months. Apart from his wife Rachael Ruto, a delegation of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance is part of his entourage. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's presidential secretariat has revealed that the boss is out of the country. The secretariat linked his absence to Ruto's tour in the two foreign nations. Though the DP is expected to spend 12 days abroad, Mudavadi's secretariat says he is out of the country for 10 days. "Mudavadi jetted out of the country this morning on a high-profile overseas trip that will see him spend 10 days in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Ruto is also on the trip," a statement by the secretariat reads in part. It further stated that the ANC leader is responding to invitations by top State officials, key multi-sectoral policymakers and respectable democratic institutions both in Washington DC and London. Mudavadi will address Kenyans in the diaspora and elucidate his economic blueprint, “Uchumi Bora, Pesa Mfukoni”, and explain how it will resuscitate Kenya’s economy Earlier on, head of Ruto's Presidential Campaign secretariat and Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok said he had left the country together with Ruto. "Accompanying DP William Ruto on an official whistle tour of the West, with a post 09 August 2022 message of hope and a better future for Kenyans and our nation. Lord, continue guiding and protecting us," he said. Images shared by Nanok shows that Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya is part of the delegation. Economist David Ndii,  Ruto's presidential campaigns head of foreign relations Ababu Namwamba and head of communications Hussein Mohamed are among the delegation. Nairobi Senator Johnstone Sakaja is said to have left the country a few days ago to lay the groundwork for the Kenya Kwanza delegation ahead of their tour. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru is among those in the DP's entourage. Others are: