Teso leaders in Busia have called for the transportation of the body of King Emorimor Lemukol Papa Osuban form Uganda to Kenya for public viewing before burial. The leaders say Teso Kenya is an extension of the Iteso Kingdom, which should fully be engaged in the burial arrangements of the king who died at 88. President Yoweri Museveni has ordered the king be accorded a state burial. The leaders fully backed a proposal by Governor Sospeter Ojaamong that the king’s body be ferried to Kenya to allow members of the Iteso community to pay their last respects to the leader before burial. Ojaamong last week urged the Ugandan government to consider bringing the body of the late king to Busia and Malaba towns in Kenya for viewing. The king died on Saturday February 5 while undergoing treatment at Mulago National Hospital in Kampala. He had been hospitalised for two weeks. He was admitted to the national hospital after his condition deteriorated following earlier admission to Soroti Hospital in Eastern Uganda with Covid-related complications. “The Iteso in Kenya is saddened by the death of their great leader and would like to attend his burial rites. However, due to Covid-19 restrictions and the large numbers expected at the burial, they can’t all travel to bid farewell to their leader,” Ojaamong said last week. He said transporting the body to Kenya would enable many members of the Teso community who are unable to travel to Serere in Uganda to attend the burial to view the body before thek is finally laid to rest. The governor’s sentiments were echoed by former Teso South MP Mary Emase, who said the king’s body should be ferried to Kenya for public viewing. “Serere is more than 100km away from Malaba border, thus a big hindrance to his subjects from Teso Kenya who loved him immensely from joining the rest of the family and world on his final send-off,” the former lawmaker said. Busia county deputy speaker and Ang’urai North MCA Lawrence Okaal said due to logistical challenges that members of the Teso community in Kenya may face in their quest to travel to Uganda for burial, it would be wise to transport the body to Kenya. Malaba South MCA David Kokonya said Teso Kenya is an extension of the Iteso Kingdom and as a way of appreciating this, the king’s body should cross the border into Kenya for public viewing. Teso South MP Geoffrey Omuse, however, said members of the Teso community in Kenya should acknowledge that Covid-19 still exists and should forego not only viewing of the body in Kenya but attending the king’s burial in Uganda. He said not many people from Kenya should travel to Uganda to attend the burial. “Being a Teso cultural leader, it would have been prudent to bring the body to Kenya but due to Covid-19 issues, our masses might be subjected to the virus at a time a new variant has exploded globally," he said. Last week, Uganda's Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development released a burial programme for the king but excluded Kenya from the itinerary whose climax will be the king’s burial at Serere in Eastern Uganda on February 19. But Ojaamong on February 10, in a letter addressed to Uganda’s Gender, Labour and Social Development minister Betty Amongi, said members of the Teso community in Kenya should be include the burial arrangements. The county chief said the majority of the Iteso in Kenya, due to logistical challenges, may not afford to travel to Uganda for the king’s burial. “The purpose of this letter is therefore to kindly request you to adjust the programme and bring Papa’s body to Kenya for viewing by the subjects before the burial,” Ojaamong said. According to Ugandan media, the king’s body will be taken to Namugongo Catholic Shrine at 10am before being chauffeured to the family’s Entebbe residence at 6pm on February 15 for a vigil. On Wednesday February 16, the body will leave Entebbe for Tororo in Eastern Uganda for public viewing. The body will, the same day, leave for Soroti at 2pm. There will be a vigil mass at Madera Catholic Church at 6pm the same day. On Thursday, February 17, there will be paying of tributes by cultural and religious leaders at Soroti sports ground at 10am before the body leaves for Serere at 4pm for a vigil mass at Olio Catholic Church. On Friday, the body will be laid at Serere district headquarters for tribute by local governments officials in Teso at 10am before being taken to his home at 07pm for mass and a vigil. The Burial ceremony will take place on Saturday, February 19. Edited by Henry Makori