ODM leader Raila Odinga’s nephew Elijah Bonyo Oburu is the latest aspirant to join the already crowded race for Kisumu central MP. The hopefuls are seeking to unseat MP Fred Ouda. Incumbent Ouda is serving his first term and will defend the seat in the August 9 General Election. Bonyo is the son of East African Legislative Assembly lawmaker Oburu Odinga, elder brother to the ODM boss. Oburu eyeing the Siaya Senate seat. Businessman and philanthropist Joshua Oron, lawyer Kenneth Amondi, Victor Radido and businessman Deo Owalla are some of the aspirants. Even though he has not publicly declared, businessman Kevin Kwere is also said to be interested in the seat. Bonyo said he wants to bring new inclusive leadership to fix the challenges facing the constituents. “Most of the youths in Kisumu Central have no jobs and my priority will be to initiate empowerment programmes to make them self-reliant,” he said. He has been meeting youth and women groups to mobilise voters to register in their numbers, in order to seek their support. Bonyo will be battling out for the seat on the ODM ticket, the dominant party in Nyanza region. He pledged to bring "fresh and transformative leadership", if elected. “I have what it takes to initiate developments that would better the lives of Kisumu Central constituents.” He pledged to champion for accountability and inclusive governance, Kisumu Central being a cosmopolitan constituency. Some youths have backed his candidature. The youth under the umbrella of Kisumu Youth Alliance announced they will support his bid. Led by chairman Dorstan Onyango and secretary Sampson Omilo the youth said Bonyo has the capacity and ability to lead the constituency. “We are convinced that Bonyo has the qualities and ideologies needed to lead Kisumu Central constituency to greatness,” Onyango said after a meeting at a Kisumu hotel, "Bonyo has mastered politics from his uncle, Raila, and late grandfather Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. He is the best candidate." He added, “We feel it is right that youth with capacity, knowledge and know-how of the workings of government and who have a proven track record of performance like Bonyo should be voted as the next MP.” Onyango said Bonyo, being a youth,  is fully aware of the plight of  young people and conversant with modern youth trends. Oron, on the other hand, has for the past one year intensified campaigns to woo voters to support his bid. He has been traversing the constituency, meeting business groups, youths, women, traders and church members to popularise his candidature. Oron banks on his philanthropic and charitable work he has done for years in Kisumu and Nyanza region. He has been participating in fundraisers and development projects and supporting the youth and women's groups. “My campaign is purely based on ideologies and issues affecting the people of Kisumu Central,” he said. Oron has been financially supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Kisumu. Aspirant Owalla said he is banking on his link with the youth and women to capture the seat. “I am banking on my charitable work background and support to the youth, women and vulnerable groups in the area to help me clinch the seat,” he said. Owalla pledged to initiate programmes that will better the well-being of the vulnerable group and promote their healthcare services through insurance schemes. Ouda exuded confidence that he will retain his seat owing to his development track-record. He will bank on a scholarship programme for the bright and needy students in the constituency. “I have done infrastructure including roads and schools,” Ouda said. Last year, he commissioned the construction of Kosawo Secondary School in Manyatta slums, which will cost Sh97 million. Aspirant Amondi said he looks forward to ensuring effective representation of the constituency in the National Assembly when elected. “There is no proper representation of the constituents in the assembly. This is one of my pillars,” he said. The advocate said Kisumu Central being the hotbed of politics in Nyanza region, requires a well experienced and competent leader to represent them. Amondi will also ride on consolidating gains made so far by small-scale traders through championing for financial empowerment initiatives to increase their income. “I intend to bring in a leadership style that is issue-based and purely aimed at championing for the interest of the people,” he said. Amondi further said he plans to ensure the Land Act is in place when elected. He said this will see compensation before demolition and eviction is done and promote small scale business in Kisumu.   -Edited by SKanyara