The Federation of Kenya Employers and the International Labour Organisation have urged the government to tackle child labour, which soared during the Covid-19 pandemic. The ILO projects manager Grace Banya said the number of working children has increased in Africa, with Kenya among the worst countries. Since 2016, Banya revealed that Africa has seen an increase in both the number and percentage in child labour. "The percentage has increased from 19.6  to 21.6 per cent over the four-year period while the percentage of children in hazardous work has also increased from 8.6 to 9.7 percent,"she said. She said Kenya is among the worst affected countries and the matter should be addressed to curb the vice. The number of children in child labour according to Banya has increased by over 20 million over the four-year period (72 to 92 million) while the number of children in hazardous work also rose (31 to 41 million). Banya said the increasing numbers were triggered by Covid-19 pandemic which saw schools closed with a number of children dropping out. When learning resumed, the majority of the children were already engaged in child labour to help provide for their families after their parent lost their jobs. She said the worst affected age groups were those between 5-7 years with the majority of them being boys who were found to be engaging in agriculture. Normally, the leading numbers she said we're always girls but unfortunately, this time boys took the lead. "Child labour is even more challenging in the context of Small and Medium-Sized enterprises. For this reason, we will be sharing some insights from the development of a toolkit for SMEs on addressing child labour," said Banya. With respect to human trafficking and forced labour,  Banya said that Kenya is a source, transit, and destination country for trafficking  persons. The National Council on Children’s Services estimates that around 17,500 Kenyans are trafficked annually for domestic work, forced labour, and commercial sexual exploitation, of which about 50% are likely to be minors. She appealed for provision of funding and technical support with the objective of strengthening the capacity of FKE to address child labour, forced labour, human trafficking and violations of acceptable conditions of work. Banya said there is need to develop and strengthen advocacy campaigns targeted at employers on the promotion of decent work and International Labour standards. The standards include the importance of issuing written contracts, provision of quality services for child labor and forced labor victims to promote decent work.