The 2019 World 5000m silver medalist Margaret Chelimo and 2018 Commonwealth Games bronze medalist Edward Zakayo say they are not worried about the pressure to overcome their international peers at Saturday's Agnes Tirop Memorial World Cross Country Tour. Chelimo said the senior women's 10km race at Lobo village, Eldoret, will be just another race for her, having competed against a number of those on the start list. "As for me, I am not under any pressure. This is not the first time I am competing in cross country. In November last year, I ran in Atapuerca, Spain alongside some of the international athletes who will be participating on Saturday. There is no pressure, therefore...we just welcome them," Chelimo said. She will be buoyed by her impressive showing in the Spanish city on November 14 when she clocked 25:04 in the women's race to finish third behind Eritrean Rahel Daniel (25:03) and fellow Kenyan, Beatrice Chebet (25:04) in first and second respectively. A week later at the Cross of Italica Cross Country Tour, Chelimo was part of the Kenyan podium sweep, finishing second in 24:23 behind the 2021 Diamond League Trophy winner, Norah Jeruto (24:22) and ahead of third-placed Chebet (24:35). The 29-year-old said cross country races are dear to her heart because it prepares her for the track and field season, especially this year where she will be eyeing a podium place at the World Championship in Oregon, United States. "Cross country is quite important for me because it is a build-up for the track and field season. I expect the competition will be tough compared to the national cross country champions because it is not only about us Kenyans but also the international athletes," Chelimo said. On his part, Zakayo expects the toughest threat to emanate from the Kenyans themselves rather than their international counterparts. "We know ourselves and our capabilities. As a Kenyan athlete, competing against your countryman will be tougher than against an international runner because you two know each other inside out, including your training regimes. The pressure to match up against the foreign athletes won't be as intense as the friendly rivalry among us," the 2018 World Under-20 5000m champion said. Zakayo will be among 68 Kenyan athletes who will be battling in the senior men's 10km race, which has been reserved for local runners. The 2018 African Championship 5000m champion described the race as the perfect preparation for his planned assault at a ticket to Oregon later this year. "I am relieved to be back in action after a long time out due to my hip injury last year. I ran at the National Cross Country Championship two weeks ago and it felt so good. This event is just what the doctor ordered as far as my preparations are concerned," he said. The one-day competition, the last of the 14 legs of the gold label tour, will honour the memory of the 2015 World Cross Country champion Agnes Tirop who was found murdered at her home in Elgeyo Marakwet in October last year.