The government has deployed teams from the ministries of Education and Interior to camp in Kerio Valley and help schools prepare for the KCSE and KCPE exams. More than 120 extra police officers will also be deployed in the region. There are more than 100 schools banditry-hit areas within Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Barimgo and parts of Turkana. Rift Valley regional commissioner Mohammed Maalim chaired a meeting in Nakuru last Thursday where preparations for the exams started. The meeting resolved that several exam centres in the vast hardship region will be merged and turned into boarding schools to enable candidates sit for exams without traveling long distances and risking attacks by bandits. “We will use all means including choppers to ensure the exams are delivered on good time and all necessary security is in place at all exam centres” Maalim said. Already contingents of heavily armed security teams have arrived in areas in Kerio Valley where attacks by bandits had increased in the last one month targeting school children and teachers. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said yesterday that counties in the region would also work with the national government and ensure the exams go on smoothly. “We will offer any kind of support required to ensure our children sit for the exams,” Tolgos said.  He said insecurity had interfered with schooling for many children. Counties have already allocated vehicles which will be used to support movement of exams and officials. Teachers unions Knut and Kuppet demanded that the government should step up security around more than 100 schools in Kerio Valley  ahead of the national exams next month. Speaking in Eldoret, Knut's first national trustee Boniface Tenai said unless the situation is addressed, many children might miss KCPE and KCSE. Tenai said only the government had capacity to deal with the attackers, but it was not acting as required. The union officials have said they will visit the region ahead of the exams to assess the situation. The meeting was attended by Kuppet and Knut officials from Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Samburu and Baringo which are the worst affected along with others from Uasn Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Nandi branches. Elgeyo Marakwet Knut executive secretary John Cheberi and Baringo Kuppet executive Secretary Zecharia Nyomboi said the teachers will withdraw their services in solidarity with their colleagues who have lost their lives in hands of armed bandits. The officials said most primary and secondary schools along the Kerio Valley, which borders Baringo, West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet have been deserted due to frequent banditry attacks that are now being carried out in broad daylight. “Learners, among them KCPE and KCSE candidates, have fled with their parents to safer areas due to fear of continued attacks that have become the order of the day,” Cheberi said. Elegyo Marakwet Kuppet executive Secretary Paul Biwott accused the government of not taking the issue of security in the affected region seriously. Mohammed however assured residents of the region that the exams would go on smoothly and that security would remain at high level even after the exams. (edited by Amol Awuor)