@alalmaurice Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has urged presidential aspirants to change their campaign messages and focus on the digital economy. He said the economic model being championed by Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi would continue to burden Kenyans, especially the poor. Atwoli said Ruto and Musalia do not have proper solutions to revitalise the country’s economy and have been trying to hoodwink Kenyans. The unionist said the two leaders were to blame for the problem that has been bedevilling the country. “The promoters of the bottom-up economic model being want to use people for their selfish interests,” Atwoli said. He advised workers to elect their next president wisely for a transformative government. Atwoli backed ODM leader Raila Odinga saying he was a progressive leader. Atwoli spoke on Tuesday at the Tom Mboya Labour College during a meeting with union leaders from the hotel industry. He said Ruto is a threat to trade unions and workers. Ruto, he said, does not have the interests of workers at heart and faulted his bottom-up economic model terming it enslaving. “The DP is a businessman and cannot prioritise unions workers. He is focused on amassing more wealth,” he said. Atwoli said he would give workers direction on the presidential candidate they should back in the August 9 general election. He said Ruto's policies do not promote principles of free and fair trade union movements where an employer can negotiate freely. Even though the workers have freedom and the right to elect any leader they want for the presidency, Atwoli said they should evaluate those seeking the State House job wisely. He criticised Ruto for championing the bottom-up ideology when other countries have adopted a smart technology economy. Most of the countries have transformed all their sectors. He cited China, Malaysia and South Korea which have advanced their digital economy and to improve the lives of their citizens. “The developed countries have transformed themselves through information technology. This is the direction that we want our country to fully adapt,” Atwoli said. Based on his mobilisation among workers, Atwoli will play a crucial role in influencing them on how they vote. The Cotu boss said the presidential race is narrowing down to Raila and Ruto and Musalia's political career was on its deathbed. He said the union is steadfast and united in championing the members' interests despite attempts by some politicians to infiltrate the union. Atwoli urged workers to ensure that they are registered as voters to enable them elect leaders of their choice. Edited by Kiilu Damaris