Traders in Busia on Tuesday walked out of a meeting organised by the county government to solve complaints about increased licence and business permit fees. They accused the county of being reluctant to address their plight. They demanded an audience with Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, whom they said should intervene and lower the fees. Those who attended the meeting said the fees had been increased by between 100 and 300 per cent. A trader who operates a posho mill in Malaba town said he paid Sh5,000 to run the business last year. However, county officials wrote an invoice that requires him to pay Sh18,000 for the same business. Another trader who runs a pharmacy said she had received an invoice requiring her to pay Sh23,000 to renew her business permit, up from the Sh18,000, last year. A salonist running her business in the border town said she paid Sh3,000 in 2020 to renew her business permit. The figure, however, rose to Sh5,000las t year before shooting to Sh12,000. She is yet to pay the money to facilitate the renewal of her business permit. Finance chief executive Phaustine Barasa was unable to convince the traders to abide by the 2020 Finance Act passed by the county assembly last year. Barasa said the increment in business permit and licence fees was effected following the elevation of Malaba to a municipality. She said the Finance Act is now law and asked the traders to abide by the new regulation and pay the fees. Barasa had earlier told the aggrieved traders to present their complaints, in writing, to her office. The traders rejected the proposal. A committee comprising seven representatives of the business community was constituted after the meeting. The committee is expected to schedule a meeting with Ojaamong over the grievances. The meeting aims at convincing Ojaamong to mediate and have the law amended to review the fees. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Busia chapter managing director Fred Papa said traders will seek the intervention of the governor to solve the impasse. “The meeting was going on well until the traders disagreed with the officials on the resolutions,” Papa said. “We have to involve the governor before taking any other step. We have mandated the MCA Malaba Central ward Benard Ibela to book an appointment with the governor to meet traders’ representatives, to solve the issue.” He said if possible, the governor should come to Malaba and address the traders. The traders expect to meet the governor before February 25 ahead of the March 31 deadline for paying the fees. James Kangara a representative of traders in Malaba said the increment in fees was so exorbitant and some business people may be pushed out of the town. “These rates are abnormal. We know that when an increase in licence fees and business permits come the increment normally never goes beyond Sh2,000,” he said. “This move has irked traders. We want to meet Governor Ojaamong and we are confident that he will help us.” He said the meeting was convened to avoid taking action that would have negatively impacted peace. Trader, Jemimah Ondeche, said increasing the fees by over 100 per cent kills the business morale and may deter more investors from coming to Malaba. MCA Ibela said he will use his position as a member of the County Assembly Finance Committee to ensure justice is served to the traders. “This problem will affect business in Malaba. We have met the county finance chief executive although we have not come up with a solution,” he said. “We want traders in Malaba to pay for their licences willingly without being forced. I am ready to handle this issue.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris