Football stakeholders have challenged appointing authorities to give local coaches a chance to handle local clubs and national teams to avoid the revolving door of foreign tacticians. They said Kenya must emulate Senegal who won the African Cup of Nations for the first time in their history on Sunday after overcoming Egypt in the penalty shootout. "It took  Senegalese coach, Aliou Cisse, eight years to win Afcon for his country. Senegal didn't sack him or make him resign and neither did they hire a foreign coach. He was given all the time and support to coach and build a strong team that rose against the 2019 final heartbreak to be crowned Africa's finest," said former Rising Stars Under-17 team manager Nick Yakhama. He added: "Winning the Afcon is definitely Cisse's greatest moment after overcoming the 2019 hiccup." "It's all about patience with the coaches. Give them time to know the players and find a rhythm. Believe in your own. Cisse missed the decisive final penalty for Teranga Lions in 2002 and never won the competition as a player but he can now celebrate as a coach." he noted. § He said: "Coaches should also be allowed to bring his assistants to enhance chemistry on the bench. Let him or her do the job without manipulation and you will no doubt see the results. It's about perseverance." He said it is unfortunate that Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards have all along pinned their title hopes on expensive overseas' coaches amidst the financial crisis bedeviling the clubs. Despite sticking with the local elite tacticians, Harambee Starlets have been managed by three coaches in the last two years. David Ouma paved way for Charles Okere who then handed the mantle to Alex Alumira last month. Harambee Stars, on the other hand, are coach-less at the moment after Engin Firat's two-month contract ended. Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee and Francis Kimanzi were previously shown the door without making their mark. Sebastien Migne, who was appointed on a four-year deal, only lasted half the period while Belgian Paul Put left after just three months. "It's about investment in youth and capacity building. The working structures need to be right. The problem in Kenya is that foreigners are given a priority yet we have elite and upcoming coaches," former Thika Queens and Harambee Starlets coach, Richard Kanyi, observes. "We judge coaches with results yet there are no structures in place. Look at the turnover of coaches. A great coach must understand the culture, environment, and demands of the nation. Cisse has succeeded because he's in the best environment," he quipped.  