Spirit at Tottenham is a joy to watch I know Southampton scored late on to beat Tottenham this week but I watched Tottenham in training this week and it is easy to see how Antonio Conte has injected life back into the team. Despite that defeat they do have a new belief. Tuesday’s preparation workout was hard but enjoyable. The players split into two teams of eight and the object was to play quick short pass football and finally score. Assistant trainer Cristian Stellini shouted out the number of passes made and the fast, speedy action is exhausting. The club’s most popular player is Son Heung-min and both he and Sergio Reguilon constantly make jokes throughout training which even has tough boss Antonio Conte laughing as he watches from the sidelines. The spirit at the club is sky high as Tottenham chase a top four place and despite not signing any internationally recognized big names during the transfer window, incoming winger Dejan Kulusevski and midfielder Rodrigo Bentancur are excellent players and good investments for the future. I was also impressed how warmly the first team greeted the Academy players. They spent time with the upcoming youngsters and made them feel important. Conte pointed out that Harry Kane is returning to being the “complete player” now that he is playing a straight No. 9 role. Harry has scored 4 goals in his last 5 matches. Is a transfer the only way out for Lukaku? What has happened to Romelu Lukaku? After a highly successful career at Inter Milan he arrived at Stamford Bridge as a “super-hero” costing £97.5million. The fans greeted him with open arms and opposing clubs were worried. The result has been a huge disappointment despite scoring against Al-Hilal in the World Club Cup this week. One of his main strengths is holding the ball and creating chances for others whilst scoring his own quota of goals. The former has been successful at Chelsea but scoring has deserted him. In the recent FA Cup win over Plymouth, a League One team two divisions below Chelsea, he struggled, lacked conviction and movement. He looked bored and frustrated. Many think it is because of his poor choices when he gave an interview to Sky Italia criticising the Blues and manager Thomas Tuchel, claiming that he was unhappy at Stamford Bridge. He apologised, paid a fine and moved on. But he doesn’t appear to have moved on very far. Tuchel continues to select Lukaku to lead his striking front line when in all honesty others deserve to play on merit. Kai Havertz and Timo Werner sit behind him in selection. Chelsea are currently a topsy turvy team which is proven by their win against Plymouth. Their goals were scored by defenders Cesar Azpilicueta and Marcos Alonso with Lukaku never looking like getting on the score sheet. Lukaku believe that Chelsea defenders are given too much encouragement to play almost as forwards and therefore limiting his chances of creating runs and breaking into opposing defensive areas. The answer might be to sell him in the summer and this has certainly been discussed at Stamford Bridge and Inter Milan are certainly interested. Rodgers under threat at Leicester It never ceases to amaze me how things turn around so quickly in football. One minute Leicester manager Brendan Rogers is everyone’s favourite who could do no wrong but now he is facing a career challenging period…he has reached a crossroad. Leicester’s shocking defeat in the FA Cup to Nottingham Forest was a wake-up call. His team played pretty football but with no bite and no clear direction. That can only be the manager’s fault. This summer’s transfer window will be the most crucial for Rogers and for Leicester. Nine of the players who lost to Forest were in the team when he first arrived three years ago and he pointed out that this is no way for a club to evolve and it needs refreshment in the summer with new talent coming in. However, it is interesting that the bosses at the King Power Stadium did not meet his request for a new central striker to cover Jamie Vardy in January and asking for approximately £200million this summer will test whether or not Leicester see him as the long term manager in charge of a rebuild. Arsenal's shop mocks Spurs Tottenham fans were furious this week when people went online to buy merchandise from the Gunners website store. If fans clicked on to the basket without choosing anything a message popped up which said, “Your basket is as empty as Tottenham’s trophy cabinet.” Ouch! Cavani proves doubters wrong Edinson Cavani has hit back at critics, particularly in Germany, who say he is one of the main troublemakers in Manchester United’s dressing room. Cavani made the winner against West Ham in a recent match and celebrated with scorer Marcus Rashford in a style which left no doubt he was delighted with the win. Ralf Rangnick says Cavani is the player he has spoken with most since his arrival at the club and although the Uruguayan will leave in the summer the coach says he is one of his most important players. Rangnick said this week, “After reports circulated that he could have left in January I told him that I desperately want him to stay until the end of the season. He is probably the only one who can play as a striker back to goal and face to goal.” Eriksen begins new life at Brentford A good friend of mine socializes with Christian Eriksen regularly and I know the Danish midfield maestro is desperate to get his career back on track after suffering a cardiac arrest at Euro 2020 last year. He said this week, “I’ve been given the green light from doctors that I am still capable of being the footballer Christian. Of course I will always have the memory of my cardiac arrest with me but now it’s time to make new memories and really look forward.” After being passed fit by the FA medical team after extensive tests, he arrived at Brentford’s training ground on Tuesday. His departure from Inter Milan was simply because Serie A rules do not licence players with an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator. The FA controlling the Premier League does not have this rule. The manager Thomas Frank said after training that Christian had done well and he will certainly play him when he feels the time is right. Tottenham coach Antonio Conte says he is watching Christian and if all goes well the Dane could even return to White Hart Lane this summer. Lampard defends Dele Alli It probably was not a good idea for Dele Alli to turn up at Goodison Park last weekend in his Rolls Royce and wearing clothes which looked as though they had been donated by a charity organization. He was criticised by respected commentators such as ex-England and Tottenham captain Glenn Hoddle who said he looked like he had been dragged in off the street.” Manager Frank Lampard immediately jumped to Alli’s defence and commented , “I don’t care what car Dele drives or what clothes he wears. As long as he comes to training every day, wants to improve every day, respects the club, respects his team-mates and gives everything he can to produce a top performance, then I am happy.” Clubs disagree on postponing matches Premier League clubs are in disagreement over changing rules which allow matches to be postponed. Some clubs argue that it would be wrong to change the rules mid-season. Other clubs state that they believe some matches have been postponed and it has favoured one club or another. I understand that the Premier League has recommended that a club must have a minimum of four Covid cases before applying for postponement. It should be less of a problem in the future as Covid cases drop. However, the League has yet to decide on the issue. Postponed matches have caused chaos this season with Burnley playing only 20 games against 24 played by Chelsea. Pogba influenced by Rangnick Going against the wishes of his agent, Paul Pogba has been telling friends that he might stay at Manchester United when his contract expires in the summer. Agent Mino Raiola has been spreading rumours that Pogba is unsettled and he will likely sign for Paris St-Germain or Juventus in the summer. However, the player himself has said how impressed he is with interim manager Ralf Rangnick, his playing style, his training methods and he has become close to the German coach since he joined from Lokomotiv Moscow. Pogba is now actively campaigning for Rangnick to be given the chance to take over permanently in the summer when his interim deal expires and he says the outcome could persuade him to stay. However, Mauricio Pochettino is still favourite and since Monaco knocked PSG out of the French Cup the pressure on him mounts despite being 14 points clear in the French League 1. Why Everton rejected his boyhood club Everton approached Wayne Rooney for the vacant manager’s job but he did not even tell his family. He has always been a firm Blue and White fan from early childhood and Everton were his first club. He thought “long and hard” about joining them after Benitez was sacked but he said, “I am pretty sure it will happen one day but for now I have to focus on getting Derby out of their current difficulties in the Championship league. He said, “Everton approached my agent and asked to interview me but I turned down the request. I hope to be a Premier League manager one day and if that is with Everton it would be great.” Derby were deducted 21 points for going into administration and therefore breaking the rules. They currently sit one place from bottom of the league and are clawing their way back up the table and Rooney is doing a brilliant job given all the problems within the club. 