A popular blogger is a worried man. Reason? A key ODM official snubbed him in the Azimio Nyanza edition campaigns. Dejected that the official who is also a county boss had ignored him, the blogger took to social media with unsubstantiated claims. He claimed that the party bigwig had embarked on a mission to destroy Raila Odinga's (pictured) Azimio La Umoja movement. Nothing would be further from the truth. Corridors of Power would later learn that the blogger was just a disillusioned element over the county boss' selection of the Nyanza campaign team that includes the social media king's political rival. Many are wondering how the blogger would manage the political pressure once the campaigns hit the crescendo. *** Has a senior public officer made up with a county boss whom he allegedly terrorised some months back? Well, the public officer, it is said, has been sending elders to seek a meeting with the governor, to no avail. However, the governor is said to have agreed to finally meet the public officer on condition that he profusely apologises over his past wrongs before they can mend fences. A section of elders who had initially tried to broker the truce, have also set conditions that the reconciliation be done openly and sheep slaughtered in accordance with the community's culture. The public officer, a staunch Christian, is uncomfortable with the cultural sacrifice but there's his career to consider. *** Still on matters governors, a county boss who has been flip-flopping on his support for President Uhuru Kenyatta is increasingly becoming isolated. After information leaked that the governor was set to decamp to Deputy President William Ruto's hustler nation, he has disappeared from the limelight. The governor is now said to be playing his cards close to his chest as he marks time before joining Ruto's bandwagon in the coming weeks. He is said to have snubbed a meeting convened by some of Uhuru's allies recently before he reportedly met Ruto at an exclusive club in Western Kenya region. However, reports indicate that the DP has given him conditions before accepting him in his camp, including publicly endorsing UDA. *** Is a senator from Mt Kenya about to join the Tangatanga brigade as he seeks to defend his seat? It is rumoured that the senator's previous bid to run for governor could have hit a dead end after he found resistance with his Jubilee party on the ground. However, after realising that his rival for governor had already occupied the front row in the hustler nation movement, the senator has decided to defend his seat on the UDA ticket. The lawmaker is set to make a grand entry into the DP William Ruto's camp in a few days. (Edited by V. Graham)