Newly appointed Bandari head coach Anthony Kimani says he is determined to help his charges shake off their low self-esteem as they toil to reignite their hopes for a maiden Kenyan Premier League title. The dockers had cemented their spot in the top four for the better part of the season after asserting authority in their initial fixtures. They have, however, experienced dwindling fortunes in their recent outings and currently place in an unimpressive ninth on the log with 26 points. Kimani reckons his charges are battling a bout of low confidence following their torrid form in recent weeks where they crushed in two consecutive encounters against champions Tusker. “There is no doubt that players are low in confidence, a fact that informs their poor form in recent days. We have already met to discuss the situation and they have said they are willing to work hard to find their footing again in the competition,” said Kimani. While admitting that they possess the burning desire like any of their rivals to lay claim to the coveted silverware at the end of the season, Kimani is cautious not to overwhelm his charges with undue pressure. “It's only important that we take one match at a time. There is no doubt that we have the desire to win the league but it's only important that we keep our focus on collecting maximum points from each of our remaining matches,” said Kimani. And after plunging vast resources to rope in quality and experience during the transfer window held earlier in the year, Kimani holds on to the conviction he now boasts of a talent-laden team that can easily rise from the ashes and bask in unprecedented glory. The coastal darlings, however, suffered a major setback after their star-signing Kevin Kimani — who was recently acquired from rivals Wazito — sustained an injury that might keep him out of action for a long duration. Kimani says the diminutive midfielder's absence will merely serve to aggravate the already delicate situation at the club, noting that their midfield had already been immensely compromised after Whyvonne Isuza and Faraj Ominde suffered severe knocks that ejected them from the lineup. “It's quite unfortunate that the list of injuries is ballooning as the season wears on. Kimani will lead his squad in a reverse league fixture against record champions Gor Mahia at Mbaraki Stadium on Sunday. Only this time, he will be standing at the touchline in his new role as head coach, having taken the reigns from Rwandan gaffer Casa Mbungo who left the club on Sunday.  