Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders have expressed their concern over the involvement of President Uhuru Kenyatta in succession politics. The alliance was in Nyeri County on Saturday where they received Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga to the team. In his address, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula questioned Uhuru’s active involvement in politics as his retirement in office nears. Wetangula said the president should have followed his predecessor, President Mwai Kibaki who retired gracefully without much involvement in politics. “Unataka kuficha nini? Sisi tunataka kukuambia rais Uhuru, just pick a leave from President Kibaki, don’t get involved in who succeeds you because you have only one vote (What are you hiding? We want to tell you, President Uhuru…),” Wetangula said. The Bungoma Senator also asked the president about the Kemsa scandal that has not been revealed, even after his 21 days order of investigation. “Kama sisi ni wakora, wale watu wa Kemsa wenye ulisema utaleta report after 21 days ni akina nani? Tuliona wengine wako karibu na wewe, sasa wakora ni sisi ama wale (If we are dishonest, where are the people involved in Kemsa scandal who you promised to table after 21 days)?” He also asked Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to be cautious trading with ODM leader Raila Odinga, saying that he will still be betrayed as before. “Yale alinifanyia mimi, yale madharau yote, yale alifanyia Musalia yote, yale madharau yote, my brother Kalonzo don’t look back, otherwise you’ll become like Lot’s wife in the Bible (what he did to me, all the disrespect, what he did to Musalia, all the disrespect, after all those disrespects, my brother Kalonzo…).” Wetangula, Musalia Mudavadi of ANC, and Kalonzo were Nasa principals before the fallout, where they blamed ODM for being dishonest in their agreement. So far, Kalonzo has hinted at forming a coalition with the ruling Jubilee Party, which is backing Raila for presidency under the Azimio la Umoja Movement. While making his remarks on Saturday during the Jubile National Delegates Congress at KICC, Kalonzo asked the president to be in charge of the Azimio.