Treasury CS Ukur Yatani has said he couldn't resign to pursue his bid for Marsabit governor due to the crucial role his office will play during the transition from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration to the next. The CS said he respects President Kenyatta, whom he owes a deep sense of gratitude for entrusting him with the position. “I have carefully weighed the dictate of my current national duty, respect for my President and the push to offer myself as a gubernatorial candidate for Marsabit,” Yatani said. “In this regard, I have therefore decided not to run for the August general election but instead continue supporting the President in his quest to consolidate his legacy and preside over a smooth transition.” The Treasury boss was touted as among key state officers that were expected to call it a day in the President Uhuru Kenyatta administration. At least four Cabinet Secretaries—John Munyes (Petroleum), Charles Keter (Devolution), Sicily Kariuki (Water), and Adan Mohamed (EAC) —have left their posts. While thanking the people of Marsabit for the confidence they have in his ability to serve in the post of governor, Yatani asked his supporters to elect aspirants affiliated with the Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja Movement. “I shall endeavour to meet some of these expectations from my current national platform. I wish you God’s guidance as you decide to choose your next leaders,” he said in a statement on Thursday. Yatani said he had invested in the preparation for the Marsabit race saying he would still find a way of dealing with wanton plunder of public resources and collapse of public services in the county. In an earlier interview with the Star on the race, the CS said leaders from the region were working on a strategy to unseat the incumbent— Mohamud Ali. “The gentleman who took over has his challenges. People can see what we were able to achieve and the kind of degeneration they have seen now. We will campaign strongly to ensure the guy who is there goes home,” the CS said. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga, Transport CAS Chris Obure, Interior CAS Hussein Dado, and Sports CAS Zack Kinuthia also resigned on Wednesday. Six of their colleagues among them Gideon Mung'aro, Patrick Ole Ntutu, Hassan Noor, Joseph Boinnet, John Mosonik, Wavinya Ndeti, and Ken Obura also left on Tuesday. Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba also quit on Thursday to join William Ruto’s UDA party as international relations adviser. Salaries and Remuneration Commission commissioner Dalmas Otieno also resigned to vie for Migori governor while David Musila left the Board of Museums of Kenya to run for Kitui governor. Edited by Kiilu Damaris