@ppcheti Police are alarmed over increased suicide cases among young people and elderly persons in Mpeketoni, Lamu West. Police records show at least three suicide cases are reported every week. The recent ones are two cases where a 52-year-old man and a 19-year-old Form Three student died by suicide over the weekend. John Kimani hanged himself on a tree in Juhudi B village on Saturday after his second wife allegedly left him and went back to her matrimonial home the previous day, Friday. His body was discovered dangling frm a tree, a few metres away from his home by neighbours The body of an orphan, Samuel Muhuri,19, was discovered dangling from a tree in their homestead by family members of Thursday. They believe the boy was stressed due to life challenges since he couldn’t raise his school fees and meet his needs as his parents had died recently. Mpeketoni OCPD Harrison Njuguna encouraged people to speak out when faced with life issues and challenges instead of killing themselves. Last week, a renowned businessman Onesmus Mtaiti died by suicide in his homestead at Mpeketoni ATC area for unknown reasons. His business is believed to have been doing well leaving neighbours and family shocked by the incident. “The family woke up, found he had died by suicide, he is a successful trader. All these incidents are under investigation. But we believe there are many ways to resolve an issue before resorting to suicide,” Njuguna said. He urged the community members to talk to elders, clergy, trusted family and friends when they feel burdened and stressed. “Speaking clears your head to think wisely and positively. Couples especially, need to take things easy during stormy seasons. Suicide only punishes those left behind,” he said. Mpeketoni community leader Emmanuel Wanyoike urged churches to intervene and help people cope with life. He said it was selfish for people to take away their lives without caring about those left behind. “Let the government also help in giving solutions,” Wanyoike said. “Such incidents torture people emotionally when they happen and must stop.” Lamu pastor and counsellor Sammy Apollo urged churches in the region to enhance social welfare and counselling programmes, to cater to the needs of people undergoing various challenges. “People need to be educated and counselled on what to do when things are not working out, never be ashamed of speaking about your problems. This helps unburden the emotional load,” Apollo said. Apart from Mpeketoni, suicide cases have also been reported in Hindi, Witu and Faza in Lamu East and West. Edited by Kiilu Damaris