Residents of Wajir who are living and working in other parts of the country and abroad have been urged to invest back home to grow local economy and create jobs. Addressing more than 1,000 Degodia community members from Wajir who reside in Garissa, Wajir governor aspirant Siyad Abdullahi said for the local economy to grow, residents must be willing to set up business. Abdullahi, who hails from Wajir West and has already been endorsed by his Mithimal and Matan subclans and the larger Degodia community, said that top on his agenda will be job creation, improvement of healthcare standards, infrastructure development and education standards. “First and foremost I am here today to plead with you to go back home and vote for me as your next governor when the time comes," he said. Hussein Haji, a Degodia elder from Wajir but resides in Garissa, promised to support Abdullahi, saying that they were impressed by his manifesto. "Yes, we are here in Garissa but when time comes to elect our leaders we all troop back to our county to the necessary (vote)," he said. "Secondly, when I assume office I will want your input in matters of governance and growing our great county’s economy.” Abdullahi said part of the solution to the unemployment crisis among the youth was to have as many businesses and industries in the area which will absorb a big number of the youth. He added: “We all need to lead by example by showing other investors that ours is a great county with huge potential that remains untapped.” The governor hopeful added that the national government can only do so much and ultimately it is only the residents who can build their own county. Abdullahi, who has lived and worked in the US for more than 20 years, said his desire to vie for the seat is to bring meaningful change to the county. “I decided to get out of my comfort zone and come back home to try and correct the many  things that I have a feeling  are being done the wrong way," he said. "It is unfortunate that while other counties in Northern Kenya have made tremendous progress in the last two devolution cycles, we have only managed to make a false start because to poor leadership.” While outlining his manifesto, Abdullahi promised to prioritise a modern sewer system, proper waste management systems and a connection to the national electricity grid. He said once they are connected to national grid, it will be easier to build industries that will create job opportunities for residents. “Proper urban planning is needed in Wajir town. You are all aware that as things stand now the town is structured in a very haphazard way. We also need to focus on radical infrastructure development so as to get the wheel of development rolling.” He further said that despite the youth forming the majority of the population, they still leave in abject poverty. Abdullahi added that the situation has not only made them lose hope in life but also made them fall prey to bad groups. The aspirant promised to run a youthful campaign geared towards bringing meaningful change. The county is inhabited by the Degodias, Ogaden and the Ajuran, with the former being the majority. They occupy Wajir East, Wajir West, Tarbaj and Eldas subcounties. Others in the race are the first governor of Wajir Ahmed Abdullahi and incumbent Ahmed Mukhtar, who succeeded his former boss Mohamed Abdi after his impeachment early last year. Other new entrants are Hassan Wehliye, Ugas Sheikh and Hassan Mohamed.  (edited by Amol Awuor)