Deputy President William Ruto and his troops have stepped up attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga ahead of the President’s Central tour. Uhuru is set to start a tour of the vote-rich region next week where he is highly expected to drum up support for Raila’s presidential bid. But ahead of the much anticipated visit, Ruto and his team have launched a charm offensive on the region. On Thursday, the DP and his Kenya Kwanza brigade camped at Kirinyaga county in their third day of campaigns in Mt Kenya region. They made stopovers at Sagana, Kibingoti, Kianjaga, Mukinduri, Kimunya and Karumandi in Kirinyaga. The team was in Nyeri and Murang’a on Monday and Wednesday respectively. Ruto criticised Uhuru for abandoning the more than eight million supporters who voted for him in the 2013 and 2017 elections when he faced fierce opposition and attacks from Raila. “Even if we lacked direction, was it to an extent that we could not get a person from the nine million people to lead us until we are to look for ‘mtu wa kitendawili’ to lead us?” the DP said. Ruto said he stood with the President when he desperately needed someone to stand with him when he was seeking election in the previous two polls. “And if Raila was a good person, why didn’t he support Uhuru in 2013 and 2017?  Even if we are told how many times about Raila, he will not change,” the DP said as he persuaded the region against electing Raila. The UDA boss accused the former Prime Minister of rocking Jubilee Party and interfering with  government’s programmes through the handshake. He said the government failed to actualise its plans in the second term, saying that the achievement of Uhuru’s administration were realised in first term. “All our plans stopped…. electricity, dams, roads and all these projects we are seeing were done in the first term and I came here several times to launch them." Uhuru has often said that his government has performed better in his second term after he shook hands with Raila in March 2018. The DP said he is the best person to carry forward Jubilee’s development programmes, adding that he understands every bit of it unlike Raila who he claimed does not have a track record. Ruto was accompanied by, among others, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Governor Anne Waiguru, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki. Mudavadi said Raila is a baggage who is being remotely controlled by Uhuru and urged the region to reject what he termed as a state project. “This sickness that we have two or three people are the ones who decide the leadership of the country must stop. We cannot be led that way,” he said. “This man is so heavy. We got tired. Now our friend Uhuru wants to carry him. He will also be tired,” he said. Wetang'ula said that Raila and his Azimio la Umoja team are visionless and have resorted to personal attacks and engaging in rhetorics of vote rigging. Rigathi said that while the President was free to visit the region and thank the residents for electing him, he should not sell Raila to them. “We are asking the President to come and thank us for voting for him but don’t tell us about kitendawili because no one will vote for him here,” he said. On his part, Kindiki said  Raila was unable to lead the Opposition and thus has no capacity and ability to lead a government.  (edited by Amol Awuor)