Two self-help groups and some Kinondo residents in Kwale county are crying foul over the alleged grabbing of their land by a private developer. The residents said despite owning title deeds, an unknown individual has moved to fence their land and served them with notices. The developer claimed ownership of 108 acres of land affecting more than 20 families. The residents, led by the Palm Women Group chairperson Fatuma Makori, said they are in great shock seeing the land they legally bought for development encroached by a person whose awareness is not known. "We purchased this land from a resident who had a title deed and we followed the legal process of buying and transferring but surprisingly someone is claiming ownership, " she said. Makori said they acquired the land two years ago using a bank loan of sh2.5 million. She said they will find it hard to pay the debt if the only land meant to generate money is grabbed. The women bought three and a quarter acres of land to build recreational centres. Some of the women are widows and wanted to be self-reliant by creating sustainable income-generating projects. Makori said their dream is now almost shattered because of the fresh land row which they cited as illegal. Currently, the residents are calling for government intervention and probe the land injustice. Makori said they want the government to help them identify the developer and examine his or her documents. "Whoever is declaring ownership of this land should not hide in the shadows. Let them come out and explain to us where they got their papers because we are the rightful owners," she said. Makori appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to take up the matter and ensure justice is served. The residents said the cases of land grabbing in the region are alarming and must be stopped. They alleged that some people from abroad have been claiming ownership of huge parcels of land in Kwale evicting residents and making them live like squatters. Mapema Self Help Group chairman Maurice Achoki said the private developer also grabbed their 10 acres of land worth Sh8 million. He said they too bought it from a resident to do investments. They wanted to construct rental houses. However, Achoki said they have been locked out of their land as the developer has fenced it all. Achoki said it is very painful that they had to contribute Sh500 daily for some years to buy the land that is on the verge of disappearing. They have been saving for more than 10 years. He said before buying the land they conducted a thorough search at the Ministry of Land to ensure it was genuine. Achoki asked the relevant government authorities to protect their land and revoke fake title deeds. Saidi Omar Mwatayari ,one of the original owners of the land sold to Palm Women Group, said he was shocked to hear that  another person was claiming possession of the land he previously owned for years. "I am also surprised I had a genuine title for my property and I don't know how it is possible to have someone else with another title," he said. Mwatayari asked the government to investigate the issue and bring the culprit to book. Riziki Juma said they are remaining with 2.5 acres of land after 2 acres of them were invaded by the developer. He said they cannot access the land because private securities have been deployed to man the area. Juma said they have since lived in fear not knowing when they will be evicted. According to the residents, the investor started fencing the land in January and people are already clearing the bushes, a sign some project is about to be established. The region has witnessed increased demolitions of properties by developers claiming ownership of large parcels of land, a situation that has rendered thousands of families homeless and depressed.  (edited by Amol Awuor)