ODM leader Raila Odinga and his allies in Azimio la Umoja on Tuesday took their onslaught against DP William Ruto to Taita Taveta. The ODM leader asked his backers to reject the Ruto-led team, saying the team has no clue on how to transform the country’s economy. Raila said the country “was playing at the third division league” because of corruption, adding that the UDA side will not deliver the Kenyan dream "as they have no direction". Speaking in Taveta, Raila, who has been in the Coast region since he returned from India, pledged a bag of goodies for the region. He has been to Lamu, Tana River, Mombasa, and Kwale counties. The ODM leader said his promise for free education from primary, secondary, to tertiary and position learners for meaningful jobs as well as better healthcare under Babacare still stands. Raila also fronted the seven-year loan repayment breaks for youth-owned enterprises as well as to complete road projects. “We will also put up industries in Taveta, protect your mining rights and do value-addition on the minerals. We will also process agricultural products for sale in other markets in the country,” he said. The ODM leader said he will deal with land grabbing in the area further, promising to deal with arbitrary arrests targeting pastoralists by Kenya Wildlife Service. “We don’t want to see officers harassing Kenyans. They should protect Kenyans who pay taxes to maintain them,” Raila said, promising an end to roadblocks. The former Prime Minister said he will open up the market at the Kenya-Tanzania border for the growth of businesses. He told residents he will reach out to Tanzania President Samia Suluhu for talks towards the free movement of goods and services across the border. “We have had a good relationship with our neighbours. I shall therefore prioritise talks to open up free trade between Kenya and Tanzania so as to help traders in this county.” In supporting business development, the ODM leader said he will revive the old Voi-Mwatate-Taveta railway line that would link the border town to Moshi. “We are done with reviving the Kisumu railway line, the next focus shall be on the railway line linking Voi to Taveta,” Raila said. On natural resources, he said his administration would ensure that residents benefit from royalties accumulated from the mining sector and the expansive Tsavo National Park. “Mining cartels have been looting minerals leaving residents to suffer from poverty. I shall ensure that royalties are paid back to the community,” he said. Raila was accompanied by MPs Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Mishi Mboka (Likoni) and Kieni MP Kanini Kega. Others included Homabay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, Kilifi Woman Representative Getrude Mbeyu, Narok Senator Ledama Ole kina, Taita Taveta Senator Jones Mwaruma and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed, Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga), Maina Kamanda (Nominated), among others. He was also accompanied by governors Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta), Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and his Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu. Also present was former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Kilifi governor hopeful Gideon Mung’aro. For his part, Kenneth said Raila was best-placed to revive the economy saying the plan to bring parties together for the vote would position the Azimio team for a win. Junet faulted Ruto for blaming the high cost of living on the 'Handshake.' He asked Ruto to call it quits from the post or take responsibility for the high cost of living. “You cannot complain that the cost of living is high yet all your expenses are catered for by taxpayers' money,” Junet said. Wanga said the rising cost of petroleum and basic commodities is linked to the looting of public funds meant for the development of the economy. She said, “We have brought Baba because he is the one who would take Kenya to the next level.” Leaders accompanying Raila took a swipe at Ruto, accusing him of disrespecting PresidentKenyatta while still serving in the same administration. The Azimio team was hosted by Taita Taveta MP Naomi Shaban, who for long campaigned for President Kenyatta in the region. They said Ruto’s promises in the campaign trail are false, saying Kenyans should demand answers on what happened with the earlier ones, like stadiums and laptops. Mung'aro said, “Since independence, we have not had presidents from other communities [apart] from Kikuyu and Kalenjin.  Let us thus help Raila so that he hands over to Joho.”