The Garissa government has partnered with UNHCR to fast track construction of Dadaab Level 4 Hospital, Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane has said. Dagane spoke on Thursday during a meeting with UNHCR officials and the county technical team. He said the proposed facility was a priority for the residents of Dadaab and adjacent subcounties, hence the need to have it completed quickly. “The departments of Health, Works and Donor co-ordination shall work hand-in-hand with UNHCR officials to ensure the success of the project, that should start as soon as possible,” he added. Currently, patients from Dadaab and Fafi are forced to travel 100kms to Garissa for treatment and surgery. The hospital is overwhelmed by patients from Garissa and neighboring counties. Dagane said once complete, the facility will help decongest the Garissa County Referral Hospital. The Level 5 facility has in the last two months been making headlines for the wrong reasons. Patients have been complaining of poor services with reports of medical staff either absconding duty or reporting late. This forced Governor Ali Korane to make an impromptu visit at the facility. He subsequently fired the CEO Ambrose Misore and replaced him with Ahmed Diis. County secretary Abdi Ali said services at Garissa Referral Hospital were overstretched following the closure of health facilities at the refugee camps. He said some of the health facilities left in the closed camps were lying idle and isolated from the host communities. This is after refugees were repatriated back to Somalia. Dagane however appreciated the long-standing partnership between the county government and UNHCR in improving provision of services for the refugee host communities. Head of operations UNHCR, Dadaab Guy Arognon said they were ready to to start building the facility. He urged the government to fast track land allocation for construction sites and offer technical support. Arognon said a site has already been identified by the county technical team. Present at the meeting were county officials Abdullahi Daud (Health), Mohamed Sahal ( Donor co-ordination), Hassan Elmi (Disease surveillance) and public health officer Ahmed Haji. UNHCR officials included Dr Sophia Mohamed (public health officer), Magala Abdi (associate government liason officer, UNHCR Garissa) and Mohamed Gurhan (UNHCR liason officer, Garissa office). (Edited by Bilha Makokha)