Record champions, Gor Mahia, have a glorious opportunity to close in on leaders Kakamega Homeboyz if they manage to beat bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets in their next Kenyan Premier League match at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. After suffering a 3-1 humiliation at the hands of Posta Rangers a fortnight ago, Gor bounced back emphatically under newly appointed German gaffer Andreas Spier who fired them to a retaliatory 3-1 win over their rivals in the reverse fixture days later. K'Ogalo currently sit in the fourth position with 30 points, four adrift of Homeboyz who have a date with relegation-threatened Mathare United at the same venue on Saturday. The Slum Boys might, however, be a hard nut to crack given they bounced back strongly from a string of consecutive defeats to wrestle maximum points from competition newbies FC Talanta at Ruaraka Grounds in their last league outing. The appointment of coach John Kamau from rivals Wazito a week ago injected the much-needed zest into the side whose fortunes had taken a drastic dip. Kamau took reigns from Ezekiel Akwana who oversaw 10 losses in eleven matches. Mathare are treading precariously in the relegation zone at position 17 with 10 points, two above Vihiga. 13-time Kenyan champions, AFC Leopards, travel to Thika to flex muscles with a well-drilled Posta Rangers side. Leopards, who have blown both hot and cold this season having won five times, shared spoils six times and crushed in their remaining six encounters. The performance leaves them in an unimpressive 13th spot on the log with 21 points. On the other hand, the mailmen have experienced a rise in their curve save for their last match, where they crushed 3-1 to Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. They are in a comfortable sixth position on the log with 26 points, but the departure of coach Stanley Okumbi might have a bearing in their subsequent fixtures. Champions Tusker have a tough battle ahead against Ulinzi Stars, who recorded a marked improvement in their last encounter, where they squeezed out a slim 1-0 over a hard-battling Wazito at ASK Grounds in Nakuru. Wazito will hope to bounce back from the defeat when they next battle Sofapaka at Nyayo Stadium on Friday. The moneybags have exhibited a slight improvement in recent matches. They are currently placed 16th with 16 points. Their opponents are 12th on the log with 21 points. Second-placed Nairobi City Stars will seek to enhance their status when they lock horns with Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium on Sunday. Bidco United have a date with Talanta at Thika Stadium on Saturday. Law enforcers, Kenya Police, eye Kariobangi Shark's scalp at Nyayo Stadium on Friday while KCB and Bandari have a mouthwatering clash at Utalii Grounds on Saturday.