The Jibrael sub-clan in Mandera North has endorsed Mohamed Bardad as their candidate for the August election. This is a major setback for current MP Bashir Abdullahi, who wants to retain his seat. Both belong to the same sub-clan. In Northeastern, clan elders play a critical role in choosing leaders during the electioneering period. This is commonly referred to as negotiated democracy. The elders are respected decision-makers in all community matters. On Saturday it was the turn of the Jibrael sub-clan to pick a candidate. Speaking in Rhamu town after endorsing Mohamed Bardad, the community’s Sultan Ibrahim Mohamed Farah said, the endorsement was courtesy of the 2017-agreement. The agreement was MP Bashir becomes the community flag bearer on the condition that come 2022, he steps down in favour of Bardad. The agreement was reached in Rhamu Dimtu. It was attended by the community’s council of elders led by the Sultan, professionals, aspirants, Bashir and Bardad. Farah said the pact still stands. He said as Muslims and a community, they cannot go against the agreement, it would be immoral and wrong. “We are gathered here to pick our candidate who will fly the community’s flag for the Mandera North seat. This was the 2017 agreement that was binding to all parties and must be respected,” he said. “Whenever decisions are made by the community, it is good for the aspirants to be honest and ready to abide by them. Vested interests should not supersede communal interests.” Farah said the community will now rally behind Bardad to ensure he clinches the seat and embarks on uniting and developing the constituency. Bardad, a teacher by profession, thanked the elders for trusting him. He promised to do his best to clinch the seat, develop the constituency and improve the livelihoods of residents. “I accepted the decision by elders in 2017 to pick my brother, I thank them for keeping their word. I fully accept the endorsement and I will provide good leadership,” Bardad said. “I thank the entire Jibrael sultanates led by Farah for trusting my leadership. Special thanks to the people of Mandera North for the support as their preferred choice for the seat.” However, as the ceremony was ongoing, Abdullahi was holding his meeting with some of his supporters and elders allied to him. He said his name will be on the ballot. However, elders led by the Sultan who endorsed Bardad termed his move and action, inconsequential. He said they will urge the community to support Bardad. The constituency which is a cosmopolitan is home to the Garre community and other corner tribes who act as swing votes during elections. Edited by Kiilu Damaris