Cancer patients in Nakuru can breathe a sigh of relief as the construction of  Sh500 million radiology centre at the Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital is completed. Nakuru county is now in the process of recruiting and inducting staff for the centre that will save travel expenses for residents who have been going to Nairobi's Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret for radiology services. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said residents had been spending energy, time and money on travel to get the services. "Most cancer patients are already physically, financially and psychologically stressed by the disease. It is unfortunate that they had to travel hundreds of kilometres, sometimes in congested public transport to Nairobi and Eldoret," he said. Kinyanjui said the county would employ more than 30 medical staff for the new cancer centre. He further said his dream of ensuring cancer patients have access to cheap, quality and timely treatment in Nakuru county was fast turning into a reality. "Construction of the modern radiology centre and equipping it is now complete. In a record two years, despite the land dispute challenges at the initial stages, it will be operational once recruitment and induction is done," he added. The facility has modern brachytherapy, linac and CT simulator machines to treat various forms of cancer. On January 20, Nakuru county public service board advertised positions for key staff who will work in the radiology centre. The county seeks to employ a radiation oncologist, therapy radiographer, radiation physicist, and oncology nurses who will undertake general diagnosis, care and treatment and rehabilitation of patients. The radiology centre is in line with another county project initiated in 2018 by Kinyanjui, an oncology centre at Nakuru PGH that has since offered cancer management services, including chemotherapy to more than 40,000 people. Meanwhile, Nakuru county, in partnership with the Kingdom Seekers Fellowship, has  embarked on the construction of another state-of-the-art referral Modern Maternity Hospital in Bahati subcounty. Apostle John Kimani William said the church will work closely with the government to ensure the Sh300 million maternity hospital is completed within the set deadline. Health executive Gichuki Kariuki said one-stop facility will have a capacity of 120 beds with private and open wards and delivery units. He said the maternity will house a pharmacy, modern diagnostic ultrasound centre, a theatre and even provide gynaecological services. "The second floor will host postnatal and post-caesarean sections inpatient, newborn units and an administration block to effectively provide all essential care that mothers need and their children," he said. Speaking during the ground-breaking ceremony, Kariuki, who was accompanied by Public Health chief officer Daniel Wainaina and other senior officials of Kingdom Seekers said once completed, the new facility will help decongest the Nakuru PGH. It will also improve the quality and efficiency of medical service delivery in the region. He said with the growing statistics of the population in the county, there was need to invest more on reproductive health and reduce maternal and neonatal mortalities. Kariuki added that the county will equip and provide necessary human resources for the hospital to start operation soon after completion.(edited by Amol Awuor)