Many residents of Murang’a fondly refer to it as Forthall. What they don’t know is that the name is borrowed from the first governor of the county, white settler Francis Hall. Hall was appointed the governor of the county in the year 1900 and was among the first settlers in the country. But unlike other white colonialists who came into the country to explore, Hall arrived with his mind made up to find a favourable place and settle. This is because the high-flying leader had experienced numerous hardships since he left Britain. Hall was born in October 11, 1860 to a father who served as a soldier in the British army and had been deployed to India. He received basic education in England but had a restless heart and so he  headed to South Africa in search of greener pasture in 1880, resigning from his clerical work at the Bank of England at the age of 20. He did not like his job. Hall only had a few pounds in his pocket when he traveled to South Africa and a letter of introduction to friends. At Port Elizabeth, he secured a job as a clerk only to resign the following day. He then joined the South African army which by then was made up of white settlers, before going on to be employed as an assistant post master until January of 1883. Hall then decided to become a farmer but soon gave up and started moving around doing odd jobs. By 1891, Hall felt he had suffered enough in South Africa and returned to England but found it impossible to resist the urge to return to Africa. Meanwhile, Kenya had become a British protectorate under Imperial British East African Company that ran the affairs of the British government in the region. Hall was fortunate to be appointed a British official and deployed into the region. His experience in South Africa came in handy and helped him to cope. He was able to quickly learn Swahili which helped him to communicate with residents. He arrived in Mombasa in 1892 and was sent to Fort Smith in Kabete which was manned by commissioner Smith and stayed there for seven years. According to Murang’a County National Museums curator  Anthony Maina, Hall wrote to his father in England in 1900 informing him that he had found an ideal place to settle, south of Mt Kenya. The area was fertile and endowed with rivers with friendly residents, he wrote, noting that he had done a reconnaissance tour to the area in 1896. In reference to the Mathioya and Maragua rivers, Hall said the area was in between two main rivers teaming with fish, and had a stream running across which would provide clean drinking water which referenced Murari stream that flows across Murang’a town. He said he had interacted with the Agikuyu community from the area, terming the residents as far more peaceful than those in Kabete. The new station, he said, would be near Sagana and would enable him to keep in touch with Nairobi while integrating with residents. He erected his flag to ward off radical settlers and applied to be deployed to the area, then known as Mbiri. He had by then been transferred to Machakos. Hall was deployed by the colonial government to Mbiri on September 17, 1990 to establish a new station and was accompanied by 300 swahili porters who settled at the current day Mjini informal settlement area next to Murang’a town. The porters who were Muslims also built Mjini mosque, the oldest in the region. He set up camp at the current day Mbiri Primary School as he established a fort on a hill where he could see the surrounding areas from all sides. The fort was made by mixing mud and locally dug concrete, and was roofed with grass thatching. The fort is there up to now and currently hosts the National Museums office. It has a cell where criminals would be held. By then, residents lived in huts that were grass-roofed while the walls were made of trees known as ‘Njoho’ and ferns. He then established his home at the current county government offices where the ruins still stand to date. Next to his home, Hall set up a camp for his guards, the camp is now Murang’a police station. It is during his reign that he helped appoint the first colonial woman chief Wangu wa Makeri. But his reign was short lived as he suffered a bout of malaria which doctors could not treat and died in March 18, 1901. He had ruled for six months only and was 40-years-old. He was buried in the compound of Murang'a ACK cathedral where his grave is preserved to date. Three months later, the British government published a gazette notice indicating that the Mbiri station would be known as Fort Hall in honour of Hall. He was then replaced by Governor S.L Hinde. History has it that the name Murang’a was a distortion of the Swahili word "mlaghai" adopted after a maasai trader was swindled by a Kikuyu trader at Sagana area that was used for barter trade. “The maasai trader was cheated out of his goods by the Kikuyu trader and in anger called him "mlaghai" meaning a fraud and thus came the name Murang’a,” Maina told the Star, explaining that the county officially got the name after independence. Hall’s fort was used by the Kenya Wildlife Service until 1996 and was gazette as a national monument by the national museums on November 2012. But due to neglect, the building that is on top of a hill, almost collapsed as rain water seeped into the mud walls collapsing one of the rooms. But the national museums moved in and rehabilitated it and now hosts its county offices.   -Edited by SKanyara