Chia seeds are small oval, dark or pale brown edible seeds from the flowering plant Salvia hispanica in the mint family. The chia plant is native to central and southern Mexico and is added to most foods to boost them with micronutrients and fibres. Chia means “strength” in the Mayan language, they were also referred to as "runners food" because runners, as well as warriors, used them as energy boosters when covering long distances or during battle. These seeds are known as a superfood as they contain antioxidants, fibre, calcium, carbohydrates, omega-3 fatty acids, and protein which makes them one of the world’s greatest sources of many essential nutrients, with almost zero calorie intake. Chia seeds are naturally gluten-free, wholegrain seeds, which are absorbed by the body in their whole form, unlike flax seeds. They have a mild flavour which makes them easy to add to most beverages and foods. They're usually sprinkled on yoghurt, fruit salads, cereals, blended with juices, or mixed into baked goods. They can also be combined with water and consumed like that. On top of that, they also contain a good amount of Vitamin B1,  B2, and B3 as well as zinc and potassium. Health benefits of chia seeds These tiny seeds are loaded with so many health benefits as they're packed with nutrients and antioxidants. Below are some of the benefits of consuming them: Great source of fibre Chia seeds are believed to be 35% fibre by weight and most of the fibre in these seeds is soluble fibre. This means once it absorbs water it becomes gel-like thus expanding in your stomach, slowing your digestion down and helping you feel full after a meal. Helps in diverticular disease treatment High fibre meals have been known to reduce the occurrence of outbreaks of diverticulitis by absorbing water in the colon. This helps make bowel movements easier to pass. Even though the cause of diverticulitis is still unfamiliar, it has been frequently linked with low fibre diets. On that note, people are encouraged to consume a hearty fibre-filled diet as it helps reduce inflammation and pressure in the colon. Great for weight loss The seeds are rich in fibre, proteins and low in calories thus they keep one feeling full for longer. This helps with weight loss as you won't get the urge to binge or snack after meals. They also turn gel-like when they absorb water, thus expanding in your stomach and slowing down your digestion, this keeps you feeling full after a meal. Reduce the risk of developing diabetes Chia seeds have been noted to significantly lower blood sugar levels due to their high fibre levels. This decrease slows the absorption of sugar in the blood thus reducing the chances of one developing diabetes. Helps lower cholesterol and cardiovascular disease Increased intake of fibre has been found to lower cholesterol and blood pressure levels. These fibres help lower "bad" cholesterol and slow down digestion which in turn prevents blood sugar spikes after consuming a meal. They also help regulate/lower inflammation, thus reducing the risk of inflammation-related conditions such as obesity, and cardiovascular disease. Helps in detox and digestion They act as a prebiotic which means, they help your stomach produce good bacteria that help keep your digestive system working properly. The fact that they're rich in fibre helps prevent constipation ensuring one has regular bowel movements which are crucial for the daily excretion of toxins through bile and stool. They also collect toxins on their way out thus helping in detoxifying the body. Help reduce chances of thrombosis and Arrhythmia Omega-3 has been noted to help reduce the risk for arrhythmia and thrombosis, which may lead to heart disease, stroke, or sudden cardiac death. Chia seeds are effective at reducing blood pressure as they're high in omega 3 fatty acids which are known to work as blood thinners thus lowering the risk of the above-mentioned diseases as well as blood clotting. With that said, it's high time you incorporated these tiny seeds into your daily lifestyle for a healthier well being.