Some women leaders have unveiled a lobby promising to rally the country behind ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. The leaders said they will hit the campaign trail to market Raila’s 10-point agenda, which they described as the solution to the country’s problems. The group is led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, former CS Sicily Kariuki, CASs Rachael Shebesh, Beatrice Elachi and Nadia Ahmed Abdalla, Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris, Wajir Woman Rep Fatuma Gedi and Samburu MP Naisula Lesuda among others. Shebesh said the team will start countrywide campaigns to ensure a victory for the ODM boss. “We are ready to hit the ground and campaign for Raila, to propel him to power,” Shebesh said. Dubbed Azimio Women Movement, the lobby will work towards peaceful campaigns and unity of the country. “We are gathered here to start an important conversation about a mass movement that brings on board members of our society that have and continue to play important roles in the social and economic development of our nation—our women,” Gedi said. Ijara MP Sophia Noor said Azimio Women Movement will have caucuses in the regions which will form critical units for protecting Raila’s votes. The leaders dismissed claims that Raila is a state project being pushed by the system to protect powerful interests once he is elected as the President. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have severally described Raila as Uhuru’s puppet who will serve a few billionaires instead of a majority of Kenyans if elected. “Raila cannot be anybody’s project, we have no apologies to make as Jubilee for supporting him,” Shebesh said. Lamu Woman Representative Zuleikha Juma told off the Ruto brigade over the project tag insisting Raila has been consistent in his resolve to liberate the country. She said the Kenya Kwanza led by Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has panicked ahead of the polls. “Raila is a project of Kenyans and Kenyans will vote for him overwhelmingly,” Zuleikha said. The Lamu lawmaker called for special consideration of women during nomination by the Azimio coalition. Sicily who resigned as CS Water on Wednesday to contest the Nyandarua governor seat called for a level playing field especially for women whom she said are prone to intimidation during campaigns. “I call on the Inspector General of Police to ensure, women seeking elective positions are protected against political violence and intimidation,” she said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris