Chaos marred the burial ceremony of the mother of Nairobi businessman Martin Nang'ole. Trouble started after Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, who had been invited to speak, apparently demeaned former Rift valley regional commissioner George Natembeya. "I can't speak before Natembeya who recently removed his uniform to compete against me. The matter of protocol no longer matters," said  Wamalwa as he invited Natembeya who had sited. Youths allied to Natembeya rose up agitated and demanded the MP to withdraw his sentiments and apologise. The MP went on and said he was ready to face anyone and anywhere "Mundu Khu Mundu ( Man on man)"telling those competing against him to brace themselves for battle. The remarks angered  Natembeya 's supporters who rose from their seats and confronted the MP. In the process, the MP's youths charged forward resulting in a fistfight. Wamalwa left the function in a huff after it appeared that the situation had become unmanageable. Speaking after order was restored, Natembeya warned leaders not to politicise funeral ceremonies. “The late mama Beatrice Nang'ole whose husband was a long serving  chairman of Nzoia County Council was a peace-loving person. She was hard-working and denominational. Please let us respect the family’s wishes,” Natembeya pleaded. He admonished Wamalwa for his conduct saying his behaviour was not befitting that of a leader looking forward to being elected as a governor. “I feel so low with the type of behaviour I have seen. I hope I do not see it again. The late Mama Nang'ole was a peace-loving mama," he added. He narrated how he prevailed upon warring communities in Rift Valley to embrace peace and coexist in harmony. “I have served this country for 25 years in the civil service. Some people demanded that I remove my uniform, but they have already panicked," Natembeya said. Trans Nzoia county women representative Janet Nangabo condemned the action of her Kiminini counterpart, telling him to respect other leaders. " It's wrong to cheat our people with the divisive bottom-up agenda. We are now in Azimio la Umoja and we will not allow our people to be misled," she said. Nangabo decamped from the Deputy President's Tangatanga camp and joined DAP-K allied to Defence cabinet secretary Eugene Wamalwa. She will be defending her seat on DAP-K even as she seeks a third term in office.  Edited by B.Marita