Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri and former senator Chris Obure on Wednesday intensified their campaigns after getting backing from two groups. Ongeri’s governor bid received major backing after over 200 delegates from Bomachoge Chache and Bomachoge Borabu resolved to support him while businessmen in Kisii town backed Obure’s governorship bid. Even though the campaigns have not officially started, aspirants have begun holding town hall meetings as they seek to replace Governor James Ongwae, who has served his two mandatory terms. “After careful consideration, we have resolved to support Ongeri’s bid for governor,” said Edward Begi, who read the group’s resolutions. Begi, who is Kisii Governor’s legal advisor, announced that major meetings will be held at Egetuki in Bomachoge Chache and Kenyenya in Bomachoge Chache to endorse Ongeri. “We shall comb every village in our bid to ensure that Ongeri becomes our governor,” added Begi. They also resolved to support ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. During the meeting, the opinion leaders asked Ongeri to consider somebody from the two constituencies to be his running mate. Ongeri reiterated that he was firmly in ODM. “As Kisii people, we should make the right choices and the right choice is me. I have a track record having served in various capacities in government,” said Ongeri. “As a community, we should rally behind Raila’s presidential bid. He is the right man to move this country forward.” Ongeri reiterated his calls for issue-based and peaceful campaigns. “As a man of peace, I’m asking my opponents to focus on selling their agenda,” said Ongeri. Separately, more than 100 small scale businessmen, including shoe shiners, grocery vendors, public transport operators also supported Obure’s governor bid. “We have listened to what Obure has told us. Our interests will be better served under his leadership,” said David Nyamweya, a businessman. Grace Kerubo said: “We face many challenges as small scale traders, including high rates charged by the county. We believe if he is elected, he will address those challenges.” During the meeting, Obure, the former Kisii senator, was accompanied by his running mate William Mbaka and senator candidate Charles Onyancha. Obure and Ongeri will battle it out with Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati, Nyaribari Chache Ezekiel Machogu, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, youthful Charles Chweya Matoke, former South Mugirango MPs Omingo Magara and Manson Oyongo. Last week, Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong’era pulled out of the race to defend her seat, leaving Racheal Otundo as the only woman aspirant.