Deputy President William Ruto has found himself on the receiving end of criticism from a Congolese senator over remarks he made in Nyeri county on Monday. In a meeting with Nyeri traders, Ruto appeared to suggest that the Democratic Republic of Congo has no cow. He made the statement while explaining to traders and residents how he will get market for their produce in the event he is elected president on August 9, elections. “Tuko na soko kuanzia hapa DRC, hawa watu wako 90 million na hawana hata ng'ombe moja (We have a market here in DRC Congo. These people have a population of about 90 million but they own no cow)," DP Ruto said. The remarks attracted the rage of Congolese Senator Francine Muyumba Nkanga who took to her Twitter handle to react. The Haut-Katanga Senator expressed her disappointment on the DP terming his remarks as undiplomatic even as she demanded an apology. “Mr Vice President William Ruto, this is really unacceptable, with all due respect there is a need to withdraw this statement If DRC did not have a single cow how could Kenya sign economic deals with DRC, Equity Bank is currently making money in Congo, this is an insult," Muyumba tweeted. She added: “We are friends to Kenya, a candidate running for the highest office of the Country William Ruto need to be diplomatically conscience as KENYA need to strengthen economic ties in the region for Kenya’s internal Economic growth. Kenya Airway is now flying in some of our big cities.” During his Nyeri visit, the DP unveiled his county-specific deliberations which he said seek to feed into the grand plan to revolutionise Kenya’s economy. Defending the DP, Elgeyo MarakwetSenator Kipchumba Murkomen asked Muyumba to take the matter lightly adding that she is overreacting. Ruto spoke to small-medium size traders from Nyeri and asked them to keep him accountable for all his promises. "We said we are going to change the national conversation to one centred on the people and their aspirations,” he said. He added that he will visit all the 47 counties where a broad document will be signed entailing all the issues raised. Edited by B.Marita