Flamboyant City preacher Lucy Natasha and her Indian fiancée Stanley Carmel go for dates and movies to strengthen their marriage. The two are happily married after their traditional wedding on January 29. Speaking during Valentine's Day in a Q and A dubbed 'Love trivia', the two shared details about their love to their congregation at the Oracle church. The first question was about their first encounter with each other. Rev Natasha said her husband slid in her Instagram DM. "Then, I physically met him in Dallas, Texas," she said. Carmel was asked to say what he loves most about Natasha. "I love that she is compassionate, everything about Natasha. She loves life and she is courageous and many women around the world look up to her." Natasha said she loves that Carmel has family values. "I love how sweet and romantic you are. The way you spoil me and bring out the girl in me," she said, adding that he believes in the call of God that is in her life. The couple was then asked when their fans should expect their first child. "Very soon and I like the number of grace, five children," Prophet Carmel said. Being an Indian, Carmel said he loves kuku kienyeji and ugali and pilipili. Speaking about their honeymoon, Natasha said it was "sweet, romantic and it was fire". Carmel said he liked the fireworks and the moonlight dinners. On how they spice up their love life, Natasha said they create time for themselves. "Most of the time, we have a hectic day, so we go out on dates and just do normal life." Carmel said Natasha is a perfectionist who likes it when things are done there and then. She also loves perfumes and Carmel said she has hundreds of collections of them and she loves life." He loves big machines and watches," Natasha said. When the two are not in a church, calling each other Papa and Mama Oracle, Carmel said he refers to Natasha as 'katoto Hodari and Babe." Natasha said she refers to him as her bad boy and her person. On who is the better kisser, they both agreed each is good.