Many health organizations use body mass index (BMI) to classify weight and predict the risk of metabolic disease. This is misleading because people with increased belly fat are at risk even if they appear slender or haven't crossed the stipulated BMI. There are different types of belly fat with visceral belly fat being the most stubborn one, and posing a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes, heart disease and other health conditions. Below are some ways to shake off that stubborn belly fat: 1. Reduce alcohol intake Alcohol can have benefits in small amounts but is seriously harmful when consumed in excess.  Heavy alcohol consumption is been linked to an increased risk of central obesity - that is, excess fat storage around the waist. 2. Avoid sugar-sweetened beverages Sugary beverages appear to be even worse than high sugar foods as they are loaded with liquid fructose which increases belly fat. Your brain doesn't process liquid calories the same way it processes solid ones therefore you're likely to consume too many calories and end up having them stored as fat. 3. Eat plenty of soluble fibre This type of fibre promotes weight loss by helping you feel full so you naturally eat less. It absorbs water and forms a gel that slows down the movement of food. Sources of soluble fibre include: 4. Avoid foods that contain trans fats Trans fats are created by pumping hydrogen into unsaturated fats. These fats have been linked to inflammation, heart disease, insulin resistance and abdominal fat gain. They're usually found in margarine and spreads and are also often added to packaged foods. They're often listed as partially hydrogenated fats. 5. Do aerobic exercise (Cardio) Studies have shown it is one of the most effective forms of exercise for reducing belly fat. The frequency and duration of your exercise are more effective than intensity. 6. Eat a high protein diet Alcohol can have benefits in small amounts but is seriously harmful when consumed in excess.  Heavy alcohol consumption has been linked to an increased risk of central obesity - that is, excess fat storage around the waist. High protein intake increases the release of the fullness hormone PYY, which decreases appetite and promotes fullness. Protein also increases your metabolic rate and helps you retain muscle mass during weight loss. 7. Perform resistance training (lift weights) Studies involving people who are predisposed to diabetes, type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease showed that lifting weights may be beneficial for belly fat loss. A combination of strength training and aerobic exercise leads to the greatest decrease in visceral fats. If you do decide to start lifting weights it's a good idea to get advice from a certified personal trainer. 8. Drink Green Tea Green tea contains caffeine and the antioxidant epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) both of which boost metabolism. Regularly drinking green tea has been linked to weight loss though it's not as effective on its own and best combined with exercise. If you want good results, you have to combine different methods that have been shown to be effective. These methods are associated with healthy eating and an overall healthy lifestyle. Therefore changing your lifestyle for the long-term is key to losing your belly fat and ensuring you don't gain it all back.