State House Chief of Staff, Nzioka Waita has for the first time talked about his entry into the murky waters of politics and his plans for Machakos county. Speaking on Tuesday, Waita stated that his plan is to serve the people of Machakos, as he outlined his larger dream of making the county a metropolis for Nairobi. "Machakos, Kiambu, Murang’a and Kajiado counties are within the Nairobi ecosystem. I want to make sure the county of Machakos benefits from the growth of the Nairobi metropolitan and the metropolitan infrastructure," he said on Citizen TV. "Nairobi can only expand in the direction of Machakos and when the expressway is done Machakos’s role as the bedroom of the city will be reinforced." Waita said he aspires to create wealth for the county and use the revenue from Nairobi to develop infrastructure in the other areas where it is needed. He insisted that he will make Machakos a city in five years if elected governor. The State House chief of staff said that through his intervention a section of roads in the county have been completed. Waita noted that Governor Alfred Mutua had his agenda for the county and as he pushed for it in his capacity as governor, he was also pushing for the same from the State House. "I have maintained my role as an honest broker for all the leaders in the region to ensure if they had development agendas that needed airtime I would raise my hand." BANKING ON EXPERIENCE Waita added that he is an administrator and through his experience will help the Machakos county manage its money and ensure people get services they need. "The county has enough politicians, they don’t need more," he said. Asked when his last day will as President Uhuru Kenyatta's chief of staff, Waita said he will work until February 9, at 5 pm and then had over to the head of public service. "I will make a farewell call to the President and ask for his blessings and support and thank him for the privilege of allowing me to work for the people of Kenya and to be in his service and to have earned his trust to be able to work for him for seven years," Waita said.