Hopping over raw sewage is a daily unwanted exercise for the people of Mukuru Kayaba slums in Nairobi. Named after a Kei apple fence that marked its border, Kayaba is located in Nairobi’s Industrial Area, sandwiched between Enterprise Road and the Ngong River. It is one of the largest in the cluster of Mukuru slums consisting of Mukuru Kwa Njenga  and Mukuru kwa Reuben. The majority of inhabitants live in tiny one-room iron sheet dwellings measuring approximately 3 by 3 meters. Mukuru slums, said to be home to more than 100,000 people, is dilapidated. Here, raw sewerage flows freely on footpaths and between houses. The grey-black mixture of mud and garbage with a foul smell flows within Kayaba as children play and mama mbogas sell vegetables in the crowded, bustling slum. Living in the slums is hard enough, but when it rains it's downright miserable. Chiluke Adah, a mother of eight who sells charcoal, told the Star the sewerage situation got worse when the government demolished a few houses three months earlier to pave way for the construction of feeder roads. However, a huge section of the road construction has been left unattended for almost three months since the excavator dug the ground. “The problem started with this road, as you can see it has not been completed. So when it rains the whole place gets flooded and becomes a mini swamp,” she said. In 2020, the national government announced plans to upgrade 408km of roads within the city slums. This was one of the measures being undertaken to improve accessibility of essential goods and services as the county combats the Coronavirus pandemic. Back in 2018, the Nairobi Disaster Management Unit had raised concern that lack of access roads was one of the challenges they faced during fires outbreaks. Most areas, especially in the informal settlements were noted to have poor road networks, making it difficult for firefighters to arrive in time. However, it seems the creation of feeder roads has led to more pain and problems for residents than benefits. Kayaba residents experience water spills from the river which is polluted with garbage. This amounts to a health hazard as the river water mixes with the cutwater pipes which are the main source of water for domestic use for the residents. “Tunakula shida maji ni chafu saa zote tumbo yetu na watoto wanaumia kwa sababu ya maji chafu ( We are suffering. Every time we face stomachache problems together with our children because of the contaminated water),” Ada lamented. When the demolitions occurred, most of the residents lost their business premises which were a source of income for many. The Star established that mama mboga, carpentry, shops, tailors, and hawkers are some of the most common business in Kayaba. “Before the excavator came we had permanent business premises but now we forced to operate from makeshifts structures and hawk so that incase the excavators return we can shift with ease,’ Adah added. After the demolitions were carried out, some traders opted to focus on hawking street food from one corner to the other. 28-year-old Agnes Wanja, hawks boiled eggs within the area after her business was wrecked after the demolitions. Wanja has a two-year-old baby to take care of so she has no option other than hawking while carrying her child. “I had a salon in a small mabati shop but I lost everything. My baby girl has to eat so I am forced to sell boiled eggs to carpenters to make ends meet every day,” Wanja added. When asked whether they have raised their concerns with the government, the residents decried that the state has been abandoned them. “ Even if we speak, who are we addressing if the same government has brought us all these miseries just because of a road that we are yet to see constructed," said Makau John, resident. (Edited by Tabnacha O)