Governments can take proactive policy approaches to mitigating risks posed by high levels of sovereign debt to an equitable recovery, the World Bank now says. This, as Kenya remains among African states with a high debt stock, currently at Sh8.2 trillion. Of this, Sh4.2 trillion is external consisting of bilateral and multi-lateral while Sh4 trillion has been borrowed locally, mainly through bonds. The country along side South Africa, Guinea Bissau, Eritrea, Ghana, Togo, Sierra Leone, Gabon, Congo, Angola, Mozambique and Zambia have debt at, or above 70 per cent of their respective, recent data from the World Bank and IMF indicate. According World Bank, the Covid-19 crisis led to a dramatic increase in sovereign debt, with average total debt burdens among low- and middle-income countries increasing by roughly nine per cent of GDP during 2020. This is compared to an average of 1.9 per cent of GDP per year over the previous decade. Governments around the world mobilised enormous resources to pay for the Covid-19 pandemic response. Many emerging economies, already heavily indebted at the outset of the crisis, took on additional debt to support households and firms. “Managing and reducing elevated levels of sovereign debt improve the ability of governments to continue providing support through the recovery, especially to low-income households and small businesses, which is key to ensure an equitable recovery,” World Bank notes. However, coordination between debtors and creditors has become more difficult than in previous crises because of the greater number of creditors and the higher participation of commercial and nontraditional creditors in the market for sovereign debt. Governments at high risk of debt distress can pursue proactive debt management approaches with creditors through, for example, debt re-profiling, which replaces existing debts with new debt with a different currency or maturity profile, the global lender says. “Governments in debt distress must coordinate with creditors to restructure debt. Effective restructuring requires the prompt and comprehensive recognition of debts, coordination with and among creditors, and a medium-term plan of reforms needed to achieve debt sustainability,” it says in the –World Development Report 2022: Finance for an Equitable Recovery. They and their creditors can benefit from improvements in sovereign debt transparency, which requires comprehensive disclosure of claims against the government and terms of the contracts that govern the debt. Contractual innovations can also help overcome coordination problems and speed up the resolution of unsustainable debts, but they are not a universal cure, World Bank advises. There is also a need for well-developed tax policy and investments in tax administration to support debt sustainability in the longer run by increasing the government’s ability to mobilize revenue, it says. In December, Kenya’s National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said the country aims to replace a nominal public debt ceiling with a debt anchor as a percentage of GDP by the end of June 2022, Reuters reported. The debt ceiling is set at Sh9 trillion. Last week, Kenya was named among five African heavily indebted countries , together with Ghana, Angola, Ethiopia and Zambia, that are are about to experience serious debt risks, according to Standard Bank Group.