Four police officers attached to DCI Langata, have been arrested on charges of Robbery with Violence. DCI director George Kinoti said the officers abducted a man at NextGen Mall on February 6, 2022, at around noon and forcefully demanded money from him. "The man who had requested for a taxi by the roadside along Mombasa Road, was accosted by the officers before being forcefully bundled in a waiting Subaru, that had five occupants," the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said. Kinoti said whilst in the vehicle, the in-charge Corporal Tom Otieno, forcefully transferred Sh40,000 from the victim’s M-pesa account to his Mpesa account. They then proceeded to the victim’s apartment where they took a further Sh272,000 from him, before dumping him at Choma Zone located at Total petrol station along Mombasa Road, after a 2-hour ordeal. "The following day, the victim went to Akira police station to make his report, only to find the vehicle he had been bundled into parked at the station," he said. Kinoti said he immediately rushed to DCI headquarters where he reported the incident at the Serious Crimes unit. "Investigations were launched immediately and the serious crimes detectives established that the vehicle indeed belonged to DCI Lang'ata," Kinoti said. All the four officers who were involved have since been arrested and identified positively by the victim, in an identification parade conducted at the DCI headquarters. The suspects are in police custody facing Robbery with Violence charges, contrary to Section 296 (2) of the Penal Code. Kinoti condemned the incident. "Their actions are isolated indiscipline cases that do not represent our moral values and what we stand for," he said. "We are an investigative body that is responsive to the security needs and requirements of every Kenyan and such acts do not in any way define who we are." He cautioned any police officer/s found on the wrong side of the law, that stern and prompt action shall be taken against them. "The Directorate shall spare no effort in bringing such criminals who taint the image of the entire Police service to justice," he said.