Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority has advertised for the supply of Bus Rapid Transit buses for the first phase. Namata said the buses will be considered based on propulsion technology that includes biodiesel, hybrid and electric. The authority said the buses can be sold or leased for three, seven and 12 years. “Namata invites sealed tenders from original bus manufacturers, motor vehicle dealers, leasing companies, financial institutions and interested firms for the provision of buses and transport services for the BRT project through leasing,” the authority said. It urged interested and eligible candidates to obtain further information and inspect tender documents at Cianda House, Koinange street, Room 512  between 8 am-12.30 pm and 2 pm to 3 pm. Namata said a complete set of tender documents may be downloaded free of charge at www.tenders.go.ke or www.namata.go.ke The authority urged those who have downloaded tender documents to forward their particulars to the authority for recording. It encouraged bidders to download the documents online and register by sending their details to info@namata.go.ke. “Bidders shall submit both technical and financial proposals in separate envelopes,” the authority said. Namata said tenders must be accompanied by a bid security of Sh1 million. Tender validity will be 280 days from the date of opening and an additional 30 days beyond the tender validity period. Namata said duly completed tender documents endorsed in plain sealed envelop, marked with tender number will be addressed to the acting director general. The authority said the tender seal will be opened immediately thereafter in the presence of the tenderers or their representatives who chose to attend the opening at Namata board room on March 22 at 10 am. Namata chief executive Francis Gitau had told the Star, the government had proposed procuring buses to pilot the BRT  through an operational lease. Gitau said the move will ensure buses are procured faster. “If we go for procurement of buses through buying, it will take a long time and because manufacturing usually has a lead time of six to nine months that will be a very long time,” Gitau said. He said the government is keen on Kasarani and Nairobi Central railway station as the portion is set for testing and pilot phase. Namata was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a. The authority is mandated to establish an integrated, efficient, effective, and sustainable public transport system. Namata has gazetted five BRT lines which are in different phases of development. The feasibility study for Line 1, which is called Ndovu, is under review while Line 2, called Simba, is under construction. “Detailed design for Line 3 has been submitted while finance is being sought for Line 4,” Gitau said. He said funding for Line 5 has been obtained from Korea Exim Bank. On February 26, 2019, Transport CS James Macharia gazetted transport corridors in the city. BRT Line 1 runs from Limuru-Kangemi-CBD-Imara Daima-Athi River and Kitengela. Line 2 runs from Rongai-Bomas-Langata Road-CBD-Ruiru-Thika and Kenol. Line 3, called Chui, runs from Tala-Njiru-Dandora (Juja Road)-CBD-Show Ground (Ngong Road) and Ngong. Line 4, which is called Kifaru, is composed of East and West. The East one runs from Mama Lucy Hospital-Donholm (Jogoo Road)-CBD. The West one runs from CBD- T Mall-Bomas-Karen and Kikuyu. BRT Line 5, which is also called Nyati, traverses Ridgeways (Kiambu Road)-Balozi (Allsops) and Imara Daima. Commuter rail networks which include Nairobi-Limuru town, Nairobi-Ngong town, Nairobi-Kenol, Muranga, Nairobi-Kiambu town, Nairobi-Ruai town, Nairobi-JKIA and Nairobi-Konza have also been gazetted. Edited by Kiilu Damaris