The handshake is not to blame for the shaky economy, if anything, it helped resolve many problems, ODM leader Raila Odinga has said. Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza alliance has blamed the March 9, 2018, handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta for the troubled economy. But Raila said it helped address the high cost of living and rising public debt, among other challenges. The ODM leader spoke on Monday in Kwale, one of his strongholds, where he drummed up support for Azimio la Umoja. The former Prime Minister said facts are stubborn and asked Kenya Kwanza to tell Kenyans the truth about the genesis of the problems. He dismissed Musalia Mudavadi, saying the ANC leader has no moral standing to advise the country on debt since he increased the ceiling before when he was Finance minister. “Musalia has no solution to this problem. These people are lying. But as they say, when the truth is told, lies will separate themselves,” Raila said. He said it was hypocritical of the Kenya Kwanza team to pass the buck yet they were in government when the problems got worse. Raila said the DP was equally to blame for the country’s problems. He asked Kenyans to revisit the history of why he sacked Ruto from the Agriculture ministry under the grand coalition government. “The cost of living is going up because of corruption. We will deal with this when we assume office. We have the solution to the debt crisis. Let Musalia leave these things for us,” he said. Raila said all countries are in debt but what matters is whether the borrowed money is put to good use. He promised to cater to Kenyans' development needs. “We stood together in 2013 and 2017. I know many people vote for me here. I am not tired. I am ready to take up this fight,” Raila said. “We know the issues [range] from water, land, fishing, infrastructure – roads, electricity, and education.” Raila said the August election is not about succeeding Uhuru but improving the economy and dealing with the country's enemies – ignorance, poverty and disease. “We have a 10-point plan to deal with these issues which among others spells our plan to provide free education for all, a kitty for single mothers and Babacare,” he said. The ODM leader pledged to build a port at Shimoni and positioned his Sh6,000 monthly stipend for vulnerable households as one that would solve the hunger crisis in the region. Azimio backers who accompanied Raila defended the handshake, saying it saved Kenyans at the height of the post-2017 election debacle. Raila was joined by Coast leaders Hassan Joho (Mombasa governor), Gideon Mungaro (ex-Lands CAS), Kwale assembly speaker Sammy Ruwa, Kwale Woman Rep Zuleikha Hassan, MPs Twalib Badi (Jomvu), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Kamoti Mwamkale (Rabai), Gertrude Mbeyu (Kilifi WR), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Mohamed Faki (Mombasa Senator). Also in the ODM leader’s entourage were Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga and Narok Senator Ledama Olekina. They accused Ruto’s camp of staging the problems they raised concerns about in their statement in Meru. The leaders said Raila had warned of the debt and cost of living crises back in 2015, but the DP vehemently supported the government at that time. The pro-handshake team said Ruto was to blame for the laws that saw Kenyans suffer increased taxation and revision of the debt ceiling. Junet said it was hypocritical of the Kenya Kwanza team to blame the handshake for the economic woes, saying Mudavadi spoke of things he knew nothing about. “We are not stupid. You cannot lie to Kenyans that the handshake caused the high cost of living. The person who has caused the high cost of living and increased debt was sitting right beside Musalia,” he said. “Raila spoke in 2015 of how Jubilee was over-borrowing, stealing and [initiating] projects that had no value to Kenyans.” Junet said the Bills that have caused the high cost of living in the country were brought to Parliament by Aden Duale and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah, who was the Budget committee chairman when the debt ceiling was raised. Joho said the handshake cured the country at the height of the tension that followed the disputed 2017 presidential elections. “If it was not for the handshake, I would have continued to be oppressed by Jubilee for standing with our people. We followed Raila because we know he means well for this country,” the governor said. He said Ruto should be the last person to make any promises, having occupied the second most powerful seat in the land. “He has been Deputy President since 2013, how can you come to tell our people that you can only give them wheelbarrows?” Joho asked. Ledama said Musalia should have looked at his environment before speaking of the independence of the Judiciary and deduction of Sh400 billion from the national government budget. “Make no mistake of electing these people. They will deduct your allocations for projects as they have indicated in their plan to reduce national government budget by Sh400 billion,” he urged Kwale residents. Edited by Kiilu Damaris