Aspiring leaders approach each election cycle with varied promises for different groups of voters in a bid to bag their support. These promises range from economic empowerment for all, the building of schools, agriculture, health improvement among many other things that directly and indirectly affect the daily lives of people. With less than six months to the August 9, elections, Kenyans are facing the season of political promises. From Presidential aspirants to Governor, Senator, MP and Member of the County Assembly, several aspirants are armed to the teeth with a manifesto highlighting their mission. Not all of these promises are kept once they get elected. Surprisingly, the trend keeps repeating itself after another five years and some leaders who failed to fulfil their promises end up being re-elected. A focus on deputy president William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga shows that the two leaders have a significant portion of their manifestos tailored towards the youth. The two politicians have been billed as the top presidential contenders for the August 9 polls. According to the 2019 population and Census results, Kenya has 75 per cent of the 47.6 million population under the age of 35, making it a youthful nation. Of these, the 2019 Housing and Population Census indicate that 29 per cent or 13.6 million of Kenya’s population is aged between 18-34 years. In the quest to bag the support of that vote-rich category, Ruto and Raila have left nothing to chance in wooing the group through elaborate campaign pledges. For DP Ruto, part of his plan for the youth is to set aside Sh100 billion fund which will support millions of them in giving them capital to start businesses and create jobs for themselves. He pegs his manifesto on the need to solve the needs of the youths first before addressing any other matter. Ruto whose campaign agenda is based on the bottom-up economic model has promised to create up to four million jobs for the youth. "These youths are our children, we have taken them to school, they have diplomas and degrees. If we don't plan for their employment we will lose them to alcohol, robbery and depression," Ruto said. "Next year when we form a government, priority number one will be to set aside Sh100 billion to create employment for the youth." He plans to achieve this through a focus on empowering SMEs by supporting them in their  SACCOs and transforming agriculture to make farming a more profitable and attractive venture for the youth. "It is only by changing the economy that we will be able to employ more youth, and empower small businesses," he added. “Kenya cannot be built by stipends. We need jobs and business opportunities that will make them economically independent.” ODM leader Raila Odinga who is seeking the presidency under the Azimio la Umoja Movement, however, has a different model of empowering the youth to that of Ruto. He pledges to create a stand-alone Ministry for Youth Affairs and mainstream appointments of the Youth in his government. Besides, he seeks to create a Youth Commission with equal representation of both genders. The commission will be tasked with advancing the participation of youths in all spheres of public and private life. Inside Raila's intray of strategies to empower the youth include also the creation of a tax holiday. He said new start-ups will have seven years to stabilise themselves before being required to remit taxes. Corporate organisations having a majority of their staff as the youth will receive tax incentives as a way of encouraging the absorption of the youth in the job market if Raila wins the presidency. Also, the ODM boss has pledged the creation of the National Boda Boda Fund that will empower the operators across the country. He said he will make funds available for them so that they can be able to support their operations through access to affordable loans and avenues of saving for future investment. He also seeks to revamp and establish industries across the 47 counties. This, he says, will ensure Made in Kenya products provide employment opportunities for the youth and also enhance the consumption of local produce. With the help of the National government and Private sector, Raila will also roll out a 10,000  Kenya National Youth Internship Program for graduates in various sectors (KNIP) per year. The pledges by the two top presidential aspirants are somewhat convincing. However, will the leaders keep their words in the event they win the seat or it will be the usual game of musical chairs?