Kikuyu elders have reiterated their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta and his decision to endorse ODM leader Raila Odinga as his presidential candidate of choice. The elders have said Uhuru’s decision represents the desires of the community and is aimed at ensuring the country is united. Kinyua Mwangi, the national patron of both Kiama Kia Ma and Kikuyu Council of Elders, also defended the President’s statements during the Sagana 3 meeting in which he reprimanded the church for accepting donations sourced through graft. Kinyua said Uhuru did not attack the church, as has been claimed by Kenya Kwanza alliance members, and that his was just a general caution. “The President, who is our member, spoke as an elder and only asked the church to scrutinise the source of the money received as donations especially if the source is questionable," he said. “This would keep them from accepting money from not only thieves but people who may have committed much worse offences.” The elders said they will continue to stand behind the President, saying Central Kenya needs to remain united ahead of the general election. Kinyua said the community risks its future if it approaches the elections disintegrated. He said the elders' role is to ensure there is peace, harmony and unity in society. Ndung’u Gaithuma, the Kiama Kia Ma national chairperson, said the two councils of elders have been working hand in hand to bring the community together. He said the role of enhancing togetherness has been delegated among elders to ensure members of the community living in all parts of the country speak in one voice. The elders spoke at Mumbi grounds in Murang’a town during the crowning of Simon Gathii Gichuru as a ‘muthamaki’ or a king on Saturday. The ceremony started with a ritual conducted in Kangari, Kigumo, before the crowning ceremony. Elders from the Central region, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and the Coast region converge in Murang’a town. “This is a ceremony that is done by the two councils, Kiama Kia Ma and Kikuyu Council of Elders. We have great reasons to bring all elders together because the community is in difficult times,” he said. Gaithuma said the extreme divisions caused by some political leaders in the region call for elders to work together as the country heads into the general elections. The elders gave the staff of leadership to President Uhuru Kenyatta in November 2012, just before he was elected in 2013, signifying that he is the leader of the community. “We have to affirm that we are firmly behind the staff that we gave out to President Kenyatta in Bomas. We sit with him occasionally because he is our member,” he said. Gaithuma said they support Uhuru’s bid to bring peace and unity in the country, adding that chaos affects many members of the community doing business in various parts of the country. “Those living in Central region listen and heed to our advice. If we don’t vote together, then the election day will be a bad day for us as a community because we will not be able to forge forward,” he added. Edited by A.N