Rags to riches isn’t a story everyone wants to hear - until it is done. It's Manu Chandaria’s story needs no embellishing. The 92-year-old illustrious businessman has grown his family's multi-billion-shilling empire from 40 employees to 34,000 today. Unlike many Kenyan billionaires who were born with a silver spoon in their mouth, Chandaria only inherited a business foundation his family set up upon moving to Kenya in 1915. Today, Chandaria is a renowned businessman and philanthropist. Before he retired two years ago, he was the long-serving chairman and CEO of Comcraft Group, a large network of companies present in over 35 countries. He is the chancellor of United States International University-Africa and was the first chancellor for Technical University of Kenya. Chandaria lives in a lavish home in Muthaiga that he bought 50 years ago from Bruce Mackenzie, a minister in Kenya's first Cabinet. Some of his furniture date back over 200 years. He has been married to his wife Aruna for almost 68 years and the two have two children, Nael and Priti. During an interview on Churchill Live, Chandaria detailed his journey of how his family built their businesses from a small store on Biashara Street expanding it to multi-billion-shilling entities. When Chandaria’s father first arrived in Kenya from India, he only had one dream: to make 4,000 rupees and go back home. However, in his first job he was only earning 20 rupees and realised it might take all his life to hit his target. “Back then, the Indian employers allowed their workforce to engage in other businesses like supply and that is how my father started his business and eventually quit employment,” he recounted. The family lived together with three other families in Ngara where Chandaria started school before the family moved to Mombasa. He then proceeded to Jamnagar India University in Mumbai to pursue a Bachelor of Science degree. He went to the University of Oklahoma in the USA in 1950, where he pursued a bachelor’s degree in engineering and later a master’s degree in the same institution before embarking on a journey back home to build his father’s business. “My father had sacrificed so much for the family through the business and that gave me a motivation to grow it further. Together with my brother and two cousins, we started working on expanding the business,” he said. Chandaria said as the family was building the business, they did not only want to make a living, but also add value. “Business is only a means. The end is to make a difference in the society. Profit is not the answer; people around you must have an improved life,” he said. “That kind of generosity and maturity of mind you develop over time after interacting with people of values”. As the business grew to other countries, so did the family and each male member was assigned a leadership role. In an interview with the Harvard School of Business, Chandaria said keeping the family together is a major challenge. “Running a joint family is more difficult than running a joint business,” he says. “The family is spread across the world but we meet once a year to look at the businesses”. Chandaria however says remaining consistent in the core values as a family has helped keep the business together. “The same way you can’t play around with my business, you cannot play around with my family. To be able to stand up for what is right, even at a cost, sets the standards for a successful business,” he asserted. Chandaria says he runs the business by setting example rather than pushing hard, and remaining humble. “I live a simple life. I am a vegetarian because I believe all animals deserve to live. I believe in truth and in holding the hands of others. I believe in humility and always being honest,” he said. The business mogul says his family learnt humility from Mother Teresa who visited their home at least four times. “Many years ago, when my daughter came back home after studying in England, every time I came back home, she complained of being bored. I asked her to volunteer in Kariobangi at Mother Teresa’s construction site. After a few days, she started appreciating and enjoying the work," he says. "Six years later, Mother Teresa saw my name on a plaque on our gates and came in to inquire if that was my daughter’s home. “I once took her to meet President Daniel Moi and when the head of state asked her what she wanted, she responded saying she needed water for the people she was helping. We were all amazed,” he recalls. Chandaria says he set up Manu Chandaria Foundation in 1956 after approval from his father who had initially insisted that he expands the business before having a foundation. “Hard work, integrity and a good attitude propelled me towards success. Even in marriage, the same is required,” he said. Chandaria said his wife, whom he praised as extremely generous and kind, made him who he is. “Marriage is not a bed of roses. You must understand and accept someone’s weaknesses,” he advises. Chandaria bought his wife a Rolls Royce about seven years ago after the 87-year-old insisted on having the high-end car. “She barely uses it, but that is what she wanted and a Mercedes couldn’t cut it for her,” she says. Chandaria affirms that above all, social work is a necessity for his family and that they are currently building a workshop at Lang'ata Prison so that women inmates can learn skills before getting out.