Kenya Sevens' forward Oscar Ouma and playmaker Samuel Oliech are expected back in the squad for the Singapore leg in April. Kenya Sevens head coach, Innocent Simiyu, said the duo has been recovering and are in the final part of rehabilitation. He said he is hopeful that the two players will return in time for the trip to the Far East. "We have been monitoring their progress and I hope they can resume training soon and play a role in the series this season,” added Simiyu. The tactician said poor preparations impacted negatively on the side's performance in Malaga and Seville last month which saw Shujaa pick a paltry nine points. Simiyu revealed that there were Covid-19 cases in the team and the side had to cancel two weeks of training due to the same. "Our preparation was affected after some of our players contracted  Covid-19. We missed two weeks of training which could have benefited us for the two legs in Spain,” he said. In Malaga,  Shujaa won one match, beating France 26-15 but lost 19-17 to Canada, 19-14 to Wales, 17-12 to Scotland, and 26-17 to Japan thus finishing 14th overall. In Seville, Innocent Simiyu's charges suffered an embarrassing 42-0 loss to Australia and also lost 14-10 to Scotland. They then bounced back to beat Canada 24- 5 and recorded further wins to Germany  (24-7 ) and Spain (24-19) to finish ninth overall Simiyu said Shujaa must improve their execution in both defence and attack as well as other facets following the two legs in Spain. “If you look at our performance in Malaga where we lost by two points to Canada and five points to Wales, the margins are small. Thus means a dropped pass and missed tackle can change the outcome of the game,"  said Simiyu. The former skipper expressed confidence that the side can achieve their target of 100 points and make it to the quarter-finals despite the poor performances in Spain. "I believe we are right on track despite the dip in form in our last tournament. We have a month-and-half to correct our mistakes before leaving for Singapore. Shujaa lie eighth on the log with 31 points after four tournaments.