One might assume with all the love hearts, teddy bears, chocolates and Cupid’s displayed on the streets and restaurants that all would be rosy for couples. Valentine's Day is the day that some couples get an opportunity to celebrate love in a special way but, unfortunately for some, they split up during the love month. According to Facebook relationship-status changes, data reveals that break-up rates on and around Valentine’s Day are pretty high (much higher than April through November.) Most people break up during the week before or after Valentine’s Day. It might seem cruel but during this month, people reevaluate themselves and their definition of love. This ends up with many taking time to pause and start questioning their relationship and where it is headed. It was around this period when tension and arguments in relationships skyrocket on realization they were not valued as they wished. Another main cause of breakups is infidelity. Unfaithful partners get caught during this time frame because they cannot be with different partners at once. Also, some people will expect showers of adoration and being paraded on social media while professing their undying love. And when their expectations are not met, they feel betrayed, leading to a breakup. Others break up due to the pressure from either social media, family and friends or your partner, especially during Christmas and Valentine's Day. It's ironical how some of the most magical holidays bring out the worst in situations. Most females expect a proposal during this time frame, especially if the relationship has been steady for some years. If it doesn't come through, they feel let down/taken for granted. This might lead to them doubting the relationship and their partner. Social media poses a lot of pressure because everything is scrutinized and overanalyzed. This might lead to couples feeling jealous, getting mad at their partners because they haven't gone big with their gestures. They then hop into relationships with other people with the hope of getting a better Valentine's treat the following year. Some men engage in dumb or risky business so as to offer grand gestures so that their girlfriends don't leave, which in itself is a shaky solution to an inevitable problem. Some couples are able to work on these issues and come out stronger and more in love but sadly for most couples, it's the end. Edited by M. Asamba