The two-techie brothers accused of assault and malicious damage to property are set to take plea on March 9. This is after the two- Edward and Paul Ndichu- failed to show up at the Kibera Law Court to take a plea in the proposed charges. The file was formally registered after the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution changed the earlier plan and allowed their prosecution on January 7. The officers handling the matter planned to have the two summoned after they failed to appear, but a lawyer representing them appeared before a magistrate court and argued they were out of town and unwell. The court agreed to defer the plea taking to March 9. The two are accused of assaulting two sisters- Stephanie, 25 and her sister Cheryl Murgor 23. The ODPP reviewed earlier plans to charge the two sisters in the case of fighting in public and assault. The ODPP had, on November 17, 2021, ordered the twins to be charged with assault and malicious damage to property. But the plea taking was delayed awaiting the processing of a new complaint by a woman- Munyra Hassan Mohamed- who was also involved in the scuffle when the said assault happened on October 17 at the Emara Ole Sereni Hotel, Nairobi. The two sisters’ lawyer Philip Murgor and the Federation of Women Lawyers –Kenya (Fida) protested the move, saying it was aimed at defeating justice, which prompted the new move by the ODPP. The two sisters had reported the matter and recorded further statements and narrated their ordeal to the police before they were issued with a P3. The officers also recorded a statement from a witness who was also assaulted in the drama and issued him with a P3. They also obtained official records of the M-PESA transaction between the Ndichu brothers and Samuel Ramdas, whose car was damaged. The team also inspected the damaged car, which was photographed by the Scenes of Crime Personnel. Police officers who attended the scene also recorded their statements. They also obtained CCTV footage of the drama. The two women run a designer clothesline in the city. They said they were attending a wedding after-party at the hotel on the 10th floor and were accompanied by two friends, Samuel Ramdas and Patrick Koech. At about 2.30 am, one of the twin brothers allegedly made an improper pass at Stephanie, to which she told him she knows him as a husband to Janet Mbugua. Munyra, who was with the brothers, shouted ex-husband. According to them, when Stephanie left for the exit, one of the brothers verbally assaulted her and abused her. At the entrance, one of the brothers violently broke the right-hand door side mirror while the other one broke the left-hand side one before they again went to attack Cheryl. Cheryl fought back, and based on this, she is set to take a plea. The twins then pleaded to pay for the damage of the car mirrors and a dent at Sh110,000. “One of the brothers proceeded to pay via M-PESA, after which they both went back to the hotel. However, immediately thereafter, the transaction was reversed. At no point did the young ladies accept any compensation for the assault or injury to themselves,” Murgor said in a past interview.