Six matches are on the card in the Kenya Women's Premier League this weekend with teams in the red zone eager to stop their poor run as the title race gathers momentum on the other end. Second-placed Gaspo will be eager to close the three-point gap to table-toppers Vihiga when they take on Ulinzi on  Saturday at Stima Club. The soldiers are ranked third on log. The Gatundu-based Gaspo have 16 points—two points better than Ulinzi. Unbeaten Vihiga are on 19 after winning six matches and drawing once in their last seven matches. A win for Gaspo will lift them to joint leadership with Vihiga should the latter lose to Wadadia at Mumias Complex on Saturday. However, Vihiga are also likely to open a five-point gap if they get the better of Wadadia and the Gaspo versus Ulinzi tie ends in a draw. Ulinzi will move to second if they manage maximum points. "We have never lost against Wadadia but they have scored against us in all the past meetings. All the same, we expect an entertaining match," Vihiga coach Boniface Nyamunyamu said. The relegation dogfight is a tricky affair altogether with five teams fighting for survival. Bunyore Starlets, Kayole, Kisumu All Starlets, Nakuru and Bunyore are all trying to avoid the drop. Minnows Kangemi, who are last on the table with three points, will be buoyed by their first win of the season having beaten Wadadia 3-2 a fortnight ago to put their campaign back on track. Kangemi face fellow newbies Bunyore Starlets at Mumboha grounds. Bunyore coach Daniel Arunga admitted that this was not the best time to face Kangemi but exuded confidence that they are still up to the task. "We want to go all guns blazing with focus on three points. Playing at home in front of the fans gives us a slight advantage," Arunga said. "Morale is high and we have no injury. Kangemi are a good team. Their 3-2 win against Wadadia means they are no pushovers." Trans-Nzoia will be without Esther Ouru, Joyce Makungu, and Noel Amtata when they visit struggling Kayole at Stima Club. Defending champions Thika Queens, who are a pale shadow of their former selves play Kisumu who are currently blowing hot and cold. The Benard Kitolo-led Zetech Sparks to have a date with Nakuru City Queens.