Some Azimio affiliated leaders have challenged Mt Kenya region residents to make a wise decision by electing progressive-minded leaders in the August 9 polls. Speaking in Kirinyaga during the unveiling of county senator Charles Kibiru’s governorship bid, the leaders told the residents that their decision in the forthcoming polls would be a crucial determinant in the direction the country would take. National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi hailed the prosperity that has emanated as a result of communities from Central and Nyanza regions burying the hatchet and working together. While outlining some of the historical events that have been archived courtesy of the unity and harmony between the two regions, the Suba South legislator intimated that the unity had helped heal the scars caused by political differences in the past. He cited the most recent being the 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga that birthed a peaceful country and coexistence between different tribes. With that in mind, he urged the region's residents to see to it that the collaboration continues even into the next government. “During independence, key figures from the two regions came together and helped in delivering this country from the hands of the colonialists. Their effort  did not stop there as the two would in coming years fervently fight for the restoration of  multiparty democracy while the country was under the one-party rule.” “In 2002, the Nyanza region launched an overwhelming support for the now-retired head of state Mwai Kibaki, an action that brought an end to KANU's 24-year-old rule,” he said. Siaya Senator James Orengo called on the residents to rise above mediocrity and critically think about the wellbeing of the nation as they prepare for the August polls. He urged them to assess all leaders and elect those who would fight for their interests while shunning those pursuing divisive politics. “Let us rid off circus from our politics. As Kenyans, it is our duty to elect leaders who will fight for our rights and ensure there is equity in resource allocation. This will be achievable if we have leaders who will agitate for the creation of extra constituencies in the central region.” Kibiru pleaded with residents to give leadership positions to those who demonstrated care and love for them. He also commended President Kenyatta’s government for implementing transformative projects in the county. “Before President Kenyatta’s tenure, Kirinyaga had only 53 kilometres of tarmacked road. Through his administration, we now have 632 kilometres of tarmacked road.” The senator who joined the Kirinyaga governor’s race on a jubilee party ticket said he would continue to fight for sufficient allocation of funds to the county and region through the one man, one vote, one shilling formulae. He added that his goal was to see Kirinyaga is allocated more funds from the current 4.1 billion shillings to 7.1 billion shillings before his term ends. Laikipia Governor Nderitu Mureithi called on Mt Kenya to back the Azimio movement as it was the best suited to rescue the country from economic hardship and ensure prosperity for all through its four main pillars. “Our main agendas are to ensure the provision of quality health care, education, boost small enterprises and see to it that all Kenyans enjoy the freedom of settling anywhere across the republic.” Mureithi, who is equally Raila’s presidential campaign chair, urged Kenyans to maintain peace and avoid being used by politicians to cause violence. He further urged his fellow politicians to engage in mature politics because politics is never a matter of life and death and should never lead to enmity. Kirinyaga Jubilee chair Muriithi Knag’ara expressed optimism that the revamped Jubilee party shall clinch all elective seats in Kirinyaga as the party is still dominant. He refuted claims made by Governor Ann Waiguru that the party had lost its glory in Mt Kenya and instead noted that it is back with a thud and its effect shall be felt deep and wide.