Baringo leaders have demanded President Uhuru Kenyatta break his silence on Rift Valley insecurity and put an end to runaway violence. Led by Baringo MP William Cheptumo, they said enough is enough, adding it is about time the head of state should take it upon himself to end the bloodshed in North Rift. Eight people have been killed by bandits since December. The President has been busy arranging coalitions and party meetings to defeat DP William Ruto. “We have lost the lives of our people owing to bandit attacks since last December yet the head of state, President Uhuru Kenyatta, has kept so silent —why?” Cheptumo asked. He was addressing congregants during the installation of the Full Gospel Churches of Kenya Bishop Dr Joshua Cheptarus in Kabarnet town on Sunday. Frequent deadly banditry attacks have recently been reported along the porous borders of Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana and Laikipia counties where people have been killed, others injured, maimed and displaced. Houses have been torched and thousands of livestock stolen by the bandits while the state stands by, they said. “We  are planning to bury the latest bandit attack victim on Tuesday after laying to rest seven others since December, totalling eight, yet President Uhuru is busy with other activities as if nothing is happening here,” he said. “So please, Mr President, we are requesting you in the name of God to kindly have mercy, drop every activity and tour the bleeding ground to address insecurity,” Cheptumo said. The legislator praised Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang'i for the frequent visits and interventions against banditry, but said the situation has now gone beyond him, as it requires a presidential directive. On February 4, Matiang'i ordered massive security operation to pursue and flush out the notorious bandits in Kerio Valley but so far no state action is visible. Cheptumo further cited the school bus incident where bandits ambushed  students of Tot mixed secondary school in the bordering Elgeyo Marakwet. A convoy of bright yellow buses was sprayed with bullets, one driver was killed and as many as 15 students hospitalised. Cheptumo was backed by his Baringo Central Counterpart Joshua Kandie, who also told President Kenyatta to consider dropping everything else he it first address the crime bedevilling innocent Kenyans. “Kenya cannot be led differently from other foreign countries in the world that always put the lives of their own citizens first. We understand  the government has got all the machinery to protect its people and their property," Kandie said. He said learning has been paralysed in 17 Baringo schools and the fate of the learners is unknown. "We don't even know if the affected candidates shall seat for their exams,” Kandie said. Furthermore he said thousands of residents, including school going children, have been displaced and now their schools are converted into IDP camps for the internally displaced. “Government should do something or tell us if it has lost the battle to the armed bandits, then I can personally even mobilise resources from my foreign friends. "Then we can have special machinery like choppers fully equipped with powerful cameras to deal with these few armed bandits, because our people can’t be left suffering all this long," Kandie said. However, Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot urged the leaders to approach the issue of banditry slowly and appealed to the locals to intervene to feed, dress and shelter their fellows affected by banditry. Present were the county assembly speaker David Kiplagat, the former Governor Benjamin Cheboi, the  former Wildlife PSProfesor Fred Segor and the assembly clerk Richard Koech who has resigned. (Edited by V. Graham)