Inflammation can be defined as a natural protective mechanism in our bodies. Your immune system becomes activated when your body recognizes anything that is foreign which triggers the inflammation process. It’s a physical condition in which a part of your body becomes swollen, reddened, hot, and often painful, especially as a reaction to injury or infection. Inflammation can be a positive thing as it helps send nutrients to injured sites to increase healing. Additionally, inflammation can even be helpful as it supports the immune system to fight off infection. However, excessive inflammation created by dietary and lifestyle choices can lead to a whole host of issues. Common causes of chronic inflammation include Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus, where your body attacks healthy tissue. Exposure to toxins, like industrial chemicals, attack from bacteria or viruses, and untreated acute inflammation, either from an infection or injury. The most common signs of inflammation include; pain, heat, redness, swelling and loss of function. However, some foods have been known to help alleviate the pain and other symptoms. GREEN TEA There are a host of benefits associated with green tea, including possible reductions in risk of heart diseases and even obesity, these benefits could be attributed to the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant compounds found in green tea. Naturally occurring phytonutrients in green tea, like catechins and L-theanine, are thought to provide a majority of the health benefits associated with this beverage. OMEGA-3 FATTY ACIDS This is a form of fat found in common foods, such as salmon, walnuts, and tuna and it’s known to reduce inflammation within the body. It is also known to support heart health. There're also omega 3 supplements in capsules and liquid form. Another good source of anti-inflammatory omega-3 fats are seeds such as flaxseeds, chia seeds, and hemp seeds. While this fat is the main nutrient that allows this seed trio to have anti-inflammatory benefits, flax, chia, and hemp host many other nutrients as well, including fiber, protein, and iron. The best part is that they can be disguised easily in many different ways such as in smoothies, salads, yoghurts, or baking. CACAO Cacao is the plant that serves as the base in making chocolate. Most people associate the plant with chocolates, which are high in calories and sugar. Cacao on its own is actually a very nutritious ingredient. Cacao powder is a natural source of polyphenols, compounds known for their antioxidant properties that have the ability to positively impact health. These antioxidants are thought to aid in weight management, reduce the risk of certain chronic diseases, and exert anti-inflammatory effects. TURMERIC Turmeric is a spice goddess that’s essential to every household. Cooking with turmeric can be great for your health. Curcumin is an active compound in turmeric that is known for its health benefits such as reducing inflammation, possessing antioxidant activity, and even supporting heart health. GINGER Ginger is widely known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant capabilities. Ginger can be enjoyed in many different forms, such as in stewed meals, powdered, pickled, or in tea, all providing you with health benefits. It is also known to aid and help alleviate indigestion, motion sickness. GREEN LEAFY VEGETABLES Leafy vegetables such as spinach, kales, and collard greens are really helpful as they're high in natural antioxidants and polyphenols (these are protective compounds found in the plants.) RESVERATROL Resveratrol is a plant compound that has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Red wine is known to contain resveratrol, making it healthy to have a glass after meals. Resveratrol also has a positive impact on blood pressure, cholesterol, and in moderation may help protect brain tissue for anti-ageing effects.