Operations of some water and sanitation companies could stop due to the huge debt they are owed by their customers, audit reports show. The 2018-19 financial audit reports reveal the semi-autonomous companies are yet to recover millions of shillings, some outstanding for 30 years. This even as about 40 per cent of the water they supply do not generate revenue. The reports by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu have exposed how directors of the companies are irregularly taking home huge cash in allowances. The firms are run by boards appointed by governors. Meru Water and Sanitation Company is yet to recover Sh161.55 million owed by its suppliers. The debt has been outstanding since 1992. “However, no evidence of recovery or write off of long-overdue debts was provided for audit review,” reads the report “It has been impossible to establish the existence of effective measures for the management.” The company irregularly paid its directors' allowances amounting to Sh1.13 million. The allowances were paid using rates determined by section 9 of the Meru County Water and Sanitation Services Act, 2014. However, the rates exceeded the Salaries and Remuneration Commission rates contained in the circular ref no SRC/ADM/CIR/1/13 (122) dated April 2014. “As per the circular, the allowances would have amounted to Sh397,000 resulting to Sh733,000 overpayments,” the report says. The Nandi Water and Sanitation Company Limited has not recovered Sh13.54 million, more than 60 days after they were billed. This is contrary to Section 6.3 of the water services board financial manual of December 2005 which states, the company may allow up to 60 days moratorium before payment for monthly bills. “The recoverability of the long outstanding debts balance of Sh17.54 million could not be confirmed,” Gathungu said in the report. The report shows 477,502 cubic meters or 44 per cent of the total volume of water valued at Sh12.04 million produced by the companies did not generate any revenues. This was above the allowable loss of 273, 254 cubic meters or 25 per of the total production prescribed in the guidelines issued by the Water Service Regulatory Board. “The non-revenue water resulted in the loss of sales estimated at Sh12.04 million which harmed the company’s profitability and could erode sustainability of its operations,” the report says. In Kilifi, the Malindi Water and Sanitation Company has not recovered Sh137.85 million which has been outstanding for several years. The company has not developed a debtor’s collection strategy on how to improve efficiency in collections or recoveries of the debts. Up to 28 per cent of water produced by the company did not generate any revenues resulting in a loss of Sh18.80 million. “No explanations have been rendered for the high non-revenue water and measures being put in place to comply with guidelines,” it says. The management irregularly paid members of the board of directors’ allowances for attending meetings. There were no minutes of the meetings, contrary to the code of governance for state corporations paragraph 8 (e ). The provision states minutes for every board committee meeting and resolutions highlighted must be drawn. Edited by Kiilu Damaris