The government has finally revoked the gazettement of Chetambe Hills as forestland in Bungoma county. More than 10,000 residents feared they would be ejected from the land in Webuye East constituency. The 406 acres in parts of Maraka and Mihuu wards was gazetted as a forest reserve on July 25 last year. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko issued the degazettement notice on January 26, 2022. There has been a protracted battle between elected leaders and the government over the land. Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa, Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and several MCAs held consultative meetings with the government, which culminated in the degazettement. Residents have lauded the government for listening to their pleas. Several leaders in Bungoma had asked the government to revoke the gazettement of Chetambe hills land. Led by Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa, the leaders had called on Tobiko to resolve the Chetambe land issue and allow residents to settle without fear of eviction. “Majority of these people are worried, they can't settle well because of the eviction threats,” he said. In June 2021, Bungoma leaders asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to revisit the gazettement of Chetambe (Webuye) Hill Forest Land, saying the move puts at risk the lives and livelihoods of thousands of residents. They urged the President to put on hold the process of eviction to allow for proper consultations and public engagements before anything happens. In January this year, Tobiko said Uhuru had asked him to revoke the gazette notice. “President Kenyatta has withdrawn the gazette notice of Chetambe Hills land. The new identification and the survey will be conducted soon to identify those who were compensated,” he said. Tobiko called on Bungoma county commissioner Samuel Kimiti to identify those who were compensated. “Those who were not compensated should settle down and initiate development projects, those settling in government-owned land should surrender it for gazettement,” he said. The area touches half of Webuye town, part of Pan Paper factory, an interchange on the Great North Road and residential areas. In the 19th Century, the hills harboured a fort for the great ruler of the Tachoni and Bukusu communities also known as Chetambe Yifile. This fort had houses for the families and a cattle kraal. In the middle of the fort, there was a sacred tree known as the omutoto, which was regarded as holy. It was the place where elders paid their respects and offered animal sacrifices to the gods. Edited by A.N