Shabana’s interim coach Kevin Momanyi has exuded his confidence that he will fill the shoes of Robert Ojienda, who left the club a week ago. “I have been given a chance by the management to handle the team on an interim basis. I want to thank them for this and I want to assure them that I will not let down,” said Momanyi. “These chances are rare for upcoming coaches. I want to demonstrate that I can take this position on a permanent basis.” So far, Momanyi has overseen two wins, edging Naivas 1-0 away and beating Mwatate United 2-0 at home. Speaking ahead of Saturday’s game against Muhoroni Youth at Muhoroni Stadium in Kisumu, Momanyi said they expect a tough game. “Mohoroni Stadium is always a hostile hunting ground but we are traveling there for maximum points. We have prepared well and the players are focused,” said the tactician. He said the team has been boosted by the signing of Patrick Ochieng and Ibrahim Ochieng from Kisumu All Stars. “They will help strengthen our midfield and defence. We are working on bringing more players on board,” added Momanyi. The club will, however, miss the services of attacking midfielder Brian Michira, who is on the verge of joining Kenya Premier League side Wazito. Shabana lie fourth on the log with 17 points, three behind leaders Fortune Sacco. Third-placed Murang’a Seal welcome second-placed APS Bomet at St Sebastian Park in Murang’a while Kisumu All Stars host Migori Youth at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. In Kirinyaga, Fortune will collide with Gusii FC while Kibera Black Stars and Silibwet will battle it out at Camp Toyoyo. At Awendo Stadium, promoted Mara Sugar entertain Dandora Love with struggling Mwatate United hoping to get their campaign back on track when they host Mully Children’s Family. Winless Mwatate are bottom of the log with just three points. SS Assad will be up against former Kenyan Premier League side Vihiga United while another KPL side, Zoo Kericho, host Mombasa Elites at Kericho Green Stadium. Zoo Kericho coach Herman Iswekha said he is keen to lead the club back to the top-flight league after being relegated due to match-fixing allegations.