Hela Intimates Epz Ltd, a garment manufacturer in Athi River Machakos County risks running into losses following an ongoing stalemate with striking workers. The company’s over 5, 500 workers have for the last three days been locked outside its premises after they protested against a newly introduced payroll system. The workers have since been reporting to work each morning only to stay outside the factory that is located inside the Export Processing Zone. They have been demonstrating against the company’s management’s failure to have them join Tailors and Textile and Workers Union. The company that operates 24 hours closed on Wednesday following the ongoing workers strike. The workers have accused the company of transferring them illegally to a new employer and unlawfully sacking some colleagues. The private firm is a local subsidiary of Sri Lankan-incorporated Hela Clothing which manufacturers lingerie for European and United States markets. The workers claimed that the firm’s management had turned deaf ears to their complaints and instead continued to violate their constitutional rights. According to the payslips seen by the Star, the workers earn a monthly basic salary of Sh14, 700 and gross pay of 18, 112 that is exposed to various deductions including NSSF, NHIF and Sh20 Benevolent fund. The company’s Human Resources Manager Monica Kamau when reached by the Star said she wasn’t in a position to comment on the issue. “I’m not in a position to talk now, but we shall talk,” Kamau told the Star by phone on Thursday. The workers who addressed the press on Thursday said they had lots of problems, some medical, financial hence were in need of payment of their dues alongside services. “We are undergoing lots of problems in this company. When women report to work from maternity after three months, they are exposed to machines without the company’s management minding whether they underwent CS during delivery,” Metrin Changalwa said. Changalwa said women who had just delivered were forced to work during nightshifts and threatened with sackings whenever they complained. The workers also accused the management of engaging police officers who harassed them unnecessarily. They said the company was planning an ownership change and had made changes to their contracts without informing them. "I have worked for this company for seven years. I am now being forced to be enrolled in a new payroll under a new company brand. This is a gimmick to deny us our service pay as stipulated in law," Shadrack Ogutu said. The staff also claim that the company had been sacking employees who question certain decisions made by the management. According to the workers, those targeted were due for service benefits after serving the company for years. “The company is forcing workers to reject union members in the company. The company name has changed from Hela Intimates to Hela Clothing, yet workers haven’t been paid for their services,” Ogutu said. Ogutu said enrolment of new payroll numbers had been going on and the rights of the workers had been violated. “We request for the CBA. We need our fellow workers who were thrown out of the company due to union allegations to resume work. The management is thriving on workers intimidation and coercion in disregard of the labour laws. Workers’ rights have been infringed in totality with workers being subjected to long hours of unpaid overtime," he added. Tailors and Textiles union Athi River branch secretary James Cheptrin confirmed that they had received complaints from the workers. "We are not opposed to the company ownership change but we are demanding workers to get their dues. We have already taken the matter to court,” Cheptrin said. The protests come barely a month after more than 2,000 workers at the Global Apparel company held a peaceful protest after they were denied entry into the company. The workers had been fired and asked to reapply afresh for their positions.