Leaders allied to the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) failed to show up for Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s thanksgiving prayers ceremony at Thika stadium on Saturday despite being invited. The leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto and who have been Kuria’s close political allies under the Tanga Tanga faction, deserted him and instead headed to Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Meru for the Kenya Kwanza political campaigns. The Chama Cha Kazi (CCK) party leader had extended the invite to the leaders as well as ODM leader Raila Odinga, who is at the Coast for the Azimio la Umoja campaigns, but they all failed to attend his ceremony. Those who attended are the Forum for Mount Kenya Region leaders including Martha Karua (Narc-K) and Mwangi Kiunjuri (TSP). Others are Kiambu governor James Nyoro [Jubilee], Thika MP Patrick Wainaina and former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando. Regional politics took center stage during the event as leaders took turns to rebuke calls to fold parties in the Mt Kenya region. Political parties in the region include The Service Party (TSP), Chama Cha Kazi (CCK), Narc Kenya, Democratic Party of Kenya (DP), The New Democrats (TND), People’s Party of Kenya (PPK) and Party of Democratic Unity (PDU). Martha Karua said that the Constitution is clear that Kenya is a multi-party state and that calls fold regional parties is aimed at returning the country to the dark days of single-party system and dictatorship. “We fought very hard for multi-partism in the country and achieved it in 1992 and there’s no way we will be coerced to join one party. Joining one party will bring back dictatorship in the country,” Karua said. Kuria said that the region will not be coerced to support any presidential aspirant blindly “without knowing or understanding what’s on the table for us.” The MP reiterated that he will not be joining either Kenya Kwanza or Azimio camps saying that he is focused to work together with leaders under the Forum for Mount Kenya to champion for the interests of Mt Kenya region. Kuria said that Mt Kenya region must be keen on its share in the government that will be formed after the August 9 elections, saying that there’s a high possibility that Raila and Ruto will work together after the polls. “There will be a handshake between the two after elections. Should they decide to work together who will be there to fight for the interests of our region?" he poised. Kiunjuri on his part said that for the region to support either of the presidential candidates, they must commit to heed and support the region’s irreducible minimums. “Again, nobody will promise Mt Kenya region anything in the boardrooms. Issues will be represented in public rallies and in public domain. Whoever wants our vote let them come to the public and say whether they will heed to our demands. We will not follow anyone blindly without knowing what’s in the basket for us,” Kiunjuri said. Thika MP Patrick Wainaina said that it’s high time to empower parties in the region for them to win more seats in county assemblies and the National Assembly in the August 9 elections. Wainaina said that having more representatives elected through the parties will give the region a strong bargaining power which will ensure that the region’s interests are prioritized.