Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has sought advice of the Attorney General following a protracted power tussle pitting four higher education regulators. The Kenya National Qualification Authority, Commission on University Education and Technical Vocational Education Training Authority are wrangling over mandates. George Bala, a Nairobi resident, is in court to challenge powers granted to KNQA to recognise and verify national and foreign academic qualifications. CUE and TVETA hold that they are bestowed with the mandate amid assertions that KNQA has no legal backing to purport to verify degrees and diplomas. Bala, in the bid to quash Part III of the Kenya National Qualifications Framework Regulations, 2018, said that the roles are vested in CUE and TVETA. Magoha asked AG Kihara Kariuki to appoint legal representatives for the regulators who are respondents and interested parties in the Bala case. The CS wants the AG to seek an adjournment of the case for 90 days to allow his office to review the regulations. The mention is slated for today. “The purpose of this letter is, therefore, to seek guidance and support on the review of Part III of the KNQF regulations,” the January 19 letter reads. Magoha, in a call of urgency, wants the AG to advise his office on the review of the contested regulations. He said inconsistencies with certain sections of the KNQF regulations as the root cause of the conflict between the regulators. “The key mandate of the KNQA is to provide for the development of a National Qualification Framework, it is important to amend the regulations to avoid a scenario where other sub-sector players will have overlapping and conflicting mandates with KNQA,” Magoha said. Magoha wants changed, Section 10 of the rules which provides for recognition, equation, and approval of foreign qualifications. “This regulation is inconsistent with the provisions of section 8 (1) of the Act which stipulates that the authority shall establish standards for recognition of national and foreign qualification.” “The established standards are to be used by the sector regulators namely KNEC, CUE, and TVETA to govern the recognition, equation and approval of foreign qualifications,” Magoha said. He also wants Section 11 of the KNQF regulations, which provides for KNQA to receive and approve applications and issue certificates of experiential learning, changed. “Regulation 11 brings into existence a certificate of experiential learning. However, the Act does not mandate the authority to issue certificates signifying attainment of a qualification,” Magoha said. On accreditation, Magoha said conflict arises where a TVET institution is required to apply for accreditation to award qualifications with KNQA yet such may have been already accredited by TVETA under the TVETA Act. The University Act, for instance, says CUE shall recognise and equate diplomas and degrees. KNQA Act provides that an institution cannot award national qualifications unless the institution is accredited or recognised or is a university accredited in line with the University Act. Whereas the KNQF regulations mandate KNQA to develop a framework for the development of an accreditation system on qualifications, the regulations present a conflict in terms of application, criteria, inspection and audit of accredited educational institutions. KNQA was before Parliament on Tuesday over the row as the Public Investments Committee sought answers on why the agency was charging fees without a legal basis. KNQA director general Prof Juma Mukhwana was hard-pressed to explain to why the agency was applying regulations that are yet to be ratified by Parliament. The committee, chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, seeks to probe Magoha on the matter, amid concerns of potential liability on part of KNQA. “Any regulation has to pass through Parliament after consideration by the Committee on Delegated Legislation. We seek answers as to why these regulations did not pass through Parliament,” Nassir said. The Mvita lawmaker said a situation of state corporations fighting against each other must not be allowed to continue.