In Islam, a person must be buried as soon as possible after death, which is usually no more than 24 hours later. Lamu cleric and historian Mohamed Mbwana says the speedy burials partially stemmed from days back when hygiene was not at its best and as such, it was a way to protect the living from any sanitary issues. Despite widespread misconceptions about Muslims not supporting post-mortems or autopsies, Mbwana says it is acceptable to delay a Muslim burial when the person has not died from natural causes. "If somebody has been killed in battle or foul play is suspected, then autopsies can be performed as long as they still stay within the required timeline for a dead body, which is 24 hours,” Mbwana says. All Muslims believe in the afterlife, he says, so it is a religious requirement for the body to be buried after death as soon as possible, preferably within 1–2 miles and without embalming. “If it’s a natural death caused by disease and other natural causes, we don’t do an autopsy. But if we feel the person's death is caused by someone, like being gunned down or poison, we encourage an autopsy so justice can prevail,” he says. So long as the body is accorded all the respect and the autopsy is done before the lapse of the 24-hour period before burial, Muslims have no opposition, the cleric added. He says sometimes, some Muslims frown upon the practice as it is seen as a desecration of the human body. Mbwana says the body in many religions is viewed as God’s property entrusted to humans for a limited period of time, after which it must be returned to the owner (God) in the best condition possible. “An autopsy means some parts of the body will be lifted out and as such, there will be changes, removals and additions. What goes back to God is not exactly what he created,” Mbwana says. It is this unity in the belief of the sacredness of the human body that has made many deplore post-mortem examinations. Mbwana says any death that has not been planned by Allah must be investigated to bring justice to the deceased and their family. Such cases include cases where a person has died from a possible infectious disease that poses a health risk to the community. “We believe Allah determines how we all die and we try not to question him when the time comes,” he says. TEACHINGS ON AUTOPSY In one of his teachings, renowned Muslim scholar Mufti Menk says protecting the honour of a Muslim after his death is the same as the rule of protecting him when he was alive, and that breaking a deceased body’s bones is exactly like breaking them when he is alive. He says an autopsy is permissible if it is done to identify the cause of death, or for certain beneficial purposes, for example as a part of a syllabus in learning medicine. Menk says when the benefit of the general public conflicts with personal benefit, the general public’s benefit is prioritised. “In the issue of performing an autopsy on the body of a deceased, it will dishonour the deceased. However, identifying the source of the disease and preventing the disease from spreading is a general or public’s benefit. Hence, it is permissible,” Menk says. In the case where it has been decided that an autopsy is needed, medical personnel responsible for the exercise are required to follow several criteria, as explained by Lamu cleric Abdulhman Fataki, which includes maintaining the honour of the deceased. “The decision to perform an autopsy is made only when there is a desperate reason or necessity to do so. If there are bodies of a non-Muslim and a Muslim, choose the body of a non-Muslim first if the autopsy is for medical purposes or identification of a disease,” Fataki says. If there is an alternative method of teaching autopsy, he says, then medics are encouraged to choose it to avoid dishonouring the deceased. “If the family of the deceased refuses to consent to an autopsy, then respect their decision,” he says. “However, if the autopsy is crucial, comfort them and explain the benefit of it. The reason is because we have been commanded to be fair and benevolent. That includes getting justice if is there’s reason to.”