Anxiety has engulfed Harambee Starlets' participation at the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifier against Uganda even after the Confederation of African Football handed Uganda an automatic ticket. The government-appointed Caretaker Committee is optimistic that Caf will rescind the decision to allow Starlets to head to Kampala for the February 17 encounter. Chief executive officer of the disbanded Football Kenya Federation, Barry Otieno, wrote to Caf withdrawing the team from the qualifiers and the African football governing body, in return, gave Crested Cranes the greenlight for the Morocco showpiece later this year. Crested Cranes immediately broke camp following the news. There has been no official communication from Caf to the Caretaker Committee over the matter and Starlets are worried they might not play even as more foreign-based players are expected to hit camp this week. “We hope to have some news after the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Cameroon because we believe Caf officials are concentrating on the ongoing tournament. If they stick to the decision, it will be a big blow for the players who have really sacrificed to don the Kenyan colours,” Caretaker Committee member, Rishadi Shedu, remarked. The former Harambee Stars coach added: “Caf’s decision caught us off guard. Barry should have looked at his decision as a Kenyan without any politics. He ought to have approached the Caretaker Committee before taking such a decision. I am confident the decision will be rescinded and our girls will play.” Starlets coach Alex Alumira said he’ll continue sharpening the team as the committee sorts out the matter. He expects injured forward Violet Wanyonyi to return to training next week after sustaining a knee injury while playing for Trans-Nzoia in the Premier League last weekend. “The players have recovered from the setback and look sharp and ready. My job is to handle the team as we expect those in charge of administration to provide the way forward. USA-based Marjolene Nekesa is on the way and we should be a full house by the end of the week. Some foreign-based players won’t come because of club duties but we are in constant communication," said Alumira. Alumira, who guided Vihiga Queens to three national league titles before taking charge of Tanzania’s Tiger Queens, added: “We have the potential. If I can compare Kenyan players with the likes of Tanzania and South Africa, we are on another level. The players have come off age and with the exposure in Caf Champions League, Cecafa Club qualifiers and assignments with the national team, Kenya is a force to reckon with.”