The amazing thing is that for the four or so years that he has been the governor of Kisumu, Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o has cut a niche for himself as one of the world’s leading authorities on urbanisation and cities management in general. Many are the times that he gets invited, often by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) to address meetings touching on sustainable urban development as well as urban planning. "Nyong’o has made a name for himself in these circles and now he is a world authority. I believe he can bring more glory to Kenya if he continues this way," says a UN expert who did not want to be quoted for this article. One of the reasons Nyong’o found his way to this table was through the reengineering the face of Kisumu city to make it a world class metropole. Another feather in his cap was when he won the rights to have Kisumu host this year’s Africities Summit in May. Africities is the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa’s flagship pan-African event that is held every three years in one of the five regions of Africa. It mobilises communities and local authorities in African countries, as well as financial institutions, civil society groups and development partners at continental and international level. Combined with the refurbishment of the railway and port (although these are national government projects that took place under Nyong’o's watch) as well as the elevation of small urban centres to towns and the perceived nod from ODM leader Raila Odinga, Nyong’o looks like he is all set to be reelected in August. But is he? Some people think otherwise. There are those who believe that the development of Kisumu city that has earned Nyong’o international acclaim might be a poisoned chalice. Defence Chief Administrative Secretary Peter Odoyo says Nyong’o has achieved a lot. “However, there is a groundswell of dissatisfied people including hawkers and bodaboda operators who were moved when the development was taking place. Some of them are back in the villagers and it is very possible for Nyong’os opponents to galvanise these people to vote against him,” the former Nyakach MP said. Another former MP from Kisumu county who chose to remain anonymous agrees with Odoyo. “These people are very bitter and I don’t see them voting for the governor. Another thing is although there is a lot of development activities going on in the city, there has never been any meaningful thing going on in the rural areas.” With the battle lines now drawn and a coalition calling itself Kano/Kadibo offering Ken Obura as its candidate to face Nyong’o, the governor needs to up his game. This coalition has outgoing Senator Fred Outa and former Governor Jack Ranguma and ex-county assembly speaker Onyango Oloo. They have held several rallies across the county selling their ideas to the electorate. As usual, the issue of clan will play a big role here. The Kano/Kadibo believe they have the largest numbers and that they will only seek votes from other areas to lock Nyong’o out. The other clans are Kisumo, Seme where Nyong’o comes from and Nyakach. “We believe we stand for the aspirations of many Kisumu residents and we will give them the right leadership,” says Richard Ogendo, a key member of the group. But a Nyong’o supporter says that by choosing Obura, the coalition has given them a weak candidate. “We have heard rumours that Obura is a UDA sympathiser and we are going to capitalise on this,” he says. Then there is the claim that although he is from Kisumu, Obura has made his home in Wagusu in Siaya county. The race for Senate is equally interesting. Senior Council Prof Tom Ojienda looks like the front runner although there are those who believe that because of party loyalty, former Muhoroni MP Prof Ayiecho Olweny should get the ticket. There is also the issue of clan in that Nyong’os deputy Mathew Owili is from Nyakach and so does Ojienda. The Woman Representative position has seen various names being floated including Grace Akumu, Rose Kisia, Doris Ombara, Carren Oloo, Beatrice Williamson, Sally Okudo and Judith Atiang. Current Woman Rep Roza Buyu is said to be eyeing the Kisumu West MP seat that is held by Olago Aluoch. Kisumu Milimani MCA aspirant Tuli Apiyo says the old hands might just face very stiff competion from 21-year-old Valentine Otieno who has been very active on the ground. Apiyo feels ODM should enhance security for women aspirants. “How safe are we when we are going to fight for seats with men. We may be popular but lack the muscle of the men. What is the party doing to protect us?” she asked. The battle for the seven constituencies is yet to fully open up.