Chair of the Independent Elections Panel for the upcoming Cricket Kenya elections, Ken Wyne Mutuma, says he will draw on his professional background as a lecturer to successfully steer the February 26 polls. The University of Nairobi don says he is versed with democracy and governance processes and will use the same knowledge to fulfill his responsibilities within the committee. "One of the areas I teach focuses on democracy and corporate governance. Courses such as these are important in terms of the process of transition. I am very glad that Lady Justice (Rtd) Aluoch (chair of Cricket Kenya Normalisation Committee) spoke about a free and fair election. I hope we will make a valuable contribution in that respect," Mutuma said. Mutuma added that the panel will be spurred by the spirit of the Kenyan constitution, which is centered on free and fair democratic processes. "I am very passionate about this process. We will work hard to ensure we deliver an outcome that is in the spirit of article 81 of the constitution as far as a free and fair process is concerned," he said. Mutuma boasts 19-years of experience as a law scholar, having started as a legal officer for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in 2002. He holds a Ph.D. in Law from the University of Cape Town, South Africa as well as a Master's degree in international trade and human rights from the same institution. He was speaking on Monday afternoon at Nyayo Stadium during a media briefing to provide the roadmap for the polls, slated for Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Mutuma announced that six positions will be contested including the chairperson, vice-chairperson, treasurer, director of women's cricket as well as representatives of cricket county associations and cricket sports clubs. "The nominees must be a citizen of Kenya if the nomination is for the positions of chairperson, vice-chairperson, and treasurer. Nominees must also produce clearance certificates from DCI, KRA, EACC, Credit Reference Bureau, HELB as well as certified copies of national identity cards or passport," he said. Additionally, voters, candidates, and persons interested in the polls must meet the legal threshold of the Sports Act 2013 as well as Cricket Kenya Constitution 2022. Only full and associate members, including county cricket associations and clubs,  who will have registered with the normalisation committee by February 15 will be allowed to vote in the polls. Speaking at the same presser, Aluoch urged the different entities interested in participating in the elections to make haste and register with the committee. "Participation will require proof of membership of Cricket Kenya. We call upon all associations and professional groups to apply for membership and associate membership of CK in line with article 7 of the CK constitution," she said.