Rift Valley regional commissioner Maalim Mohammed has pledged his commitment to eliminating  banditry in Kerio Valley. Mohammed said security forces were pursuing criminals who attacked school buses in Elgeyo Marakwet, killing a driver and injuring 13 students and  two teachers. He said the government was deploying new but effective measures to ensure banditry attacks are stopped. He did not elaborate. “We may not speak out about the plans we are putting in place but our resolve is that we will get all these criminals. We cannot continue to live that way. Our children must be allowed to go to school and learn," Mohammed said. He said the results of the government plans for the region will be felt. The commissioner said the government has identified Tiaty constituency as a hideout for criminals and was working on strategies to open up the region and flush out the gangs. He said the government has convened a security crisis meeting on Thursday and extensive discussions are expected. The meeting will also plan for safety in schools in Kerio Valley and other parts of the region during the KCSE and KCPE national exams next month. Two days ago bandits  shot and killed a teacher in Kerio Valley, just a after the school bus attack in the same area. Mohammed said all county  commissioners, education officials and officers from the DCI department will discuss the safety of schools in the region. “We will also involve leaders from the region and residents to ensure the exams go  smoothly," he said," He said education officials have been instructed to ensure school buses do not operate after 6pm for the safety of students and teachers. “We will not allow any school head to go against that directive because the most important thing is the safety of all children in schools," he said. Extra security will be deployed to all schools in the region ahead of the exams. At Tot secondary school whose students were injured in the attack, Mohammed said four armed officers had already been deployed. Twelve of the students and two teachers injured in the attack are still hospitalised with bullet wounds following the last Thursday's attack. Governors in the region led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu have also condemned the latest killing and urged President Kenyatta to personally intervene to restore security. Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis said they security situation is the region is worrying and the county governments were ready to support all efforts to restore security. He expressed concern that even young children in areas like Tiaty were armed and said there was urgent need for the government to getting the arms out of the wrong hands. The government has announced plans for forcible disarmament in the region, following a two-week amnesty.  Disarmament has not yet commenced. (Edited by V. Graham)