The DAP-K party has today unveiled Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati as the county's gubernatorial candidate in the August 9, elections. The party has also received over 15 members of the county assembly and other aspirants who want to run for various seats on DAP-K tickets. Speaking at Posta grounds during the DAP-K rally, Wangamati said he had ditched the Ford Kenya party and officially joined the new party to seek re-election in the August polls. "I have decided to make this final decision in broad daylight to avoid doubt, I want to assure you that I will support Raila's presidential bid to ascend to power," Wangamati said. Wangamati revealed that Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula has been barring him from initiating development projects to benefit Bungoma residents. “He has used the court to stop me from imitating projects. I want to ask Bungoma residents to support my re-election where I will use the opportunity to initiate industrial sectors that will give avenues for employment,” he said. Wangamati added that he was part of the 30 governors who attended the Azimio la Umoja meeting that was graced by ODM leader Raila Odinga saying that he was Raila’s point man. “We held a fruitful meeting with Raila Odinga and agreed that we will support his presidential bid,” he said, adding that it’s only Raila who will change the economy of the country. Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) deputy party leader who is also the Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya urged Senate speaker Ken Lusaka to drop his gubernatorial bid and support Wangamati’s re-election. “Wangamati came and found me in the council of governors, I have seen him following my footsteps to develop Bungoma. I humbly ask my brother Lusaka to drop his gubernatorial bid and support Wangamati’s re-election. Even if he doesn’t run for Bungoma seat he will still get a top seat,” he said. Oparanya noted the rally was to happen in Busia but it was cancelled due to unavoidable circumstances. DAK-P deputy party leader Ayub Savula condemned Ford Kenya party leader and ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi for the decision they made to support DP William Ruto to ascend to power. “Wetang’ula and Mudavadi are very cheap, the duo has given the Luhya leaders led by Oparanya chance to lead this region,” he said.