Deputy President William Ruto has apologised for his remarks that suggested that the DRC Congo rears no cow. In a statement by his head of presidential campaigns communications Hussein Mohamed, the DP said he regrets the misunderstanding that his remarks caused. "I regret any misunderstanding that may have arisen on account of my speech and take this opportunity to assure the government and the people of DRC of my profound admiration and high regard," the DP said. Ruto said his speech was on a light note to emphasize how the DRC market is big for Kenyan dairy farmers to exploit. "My speech was informal, and my use of certain effects was purely to underscore the magnitude of the opportunity and the urgency of the moment to a local audience. It was not intended to disrespect in any way," Ruto added. His apology comes after hours of online uproar from the Congolese nation who deemed his remarks as undiplomatic and disrespectful. Led by Haut-Katanga Senator Francine Muyumba, DRC citizens demanded an apology and the withdrawal of the statement. “Mr Vice President William Ruto, this is unacceptable, with all due respect there is a need to withdraw this statement If DRC did not have a single cow how could Kenya sign economic deals with DRC, Equity Bank is currently making money in Congo, this is an insult," she said. More Congolese took to their social media to express their disappointment on the DP even as they shared images of their cows. The rage saw the ODM leader Raila Odinga weigh in on the debate and even asked the DP to apologise. Raila in a statement on Wednesday termed the DP's remarks as reckless saying it risked sparking a diplomatic tiff. "Ruto's attack on DRC is a manifestation of a reckless lack of vision and foresight; a pathetic failure to see where opportunities abound for Kenya, DRC produces," Raila said. He added: "As a person who has worked diligently alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta in deepening the ties that bind our two countries, I have been very disturbed and deeply disappointed by utterances of deputy president William Ruto that poured scorn in an otherwise friendly and enterprising nation that also holds  Kenya in high esteem". Kenya had earlier issued a statement pledging its commitment to a respectful relationship with DRC.