Record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia have appointed a new technical bench, just a couple of days after they sent the erstwhile coaching staff packing. German tactician Andreas Spier will lead the new bench comprising Michael Nam as his assistant and Boniface Oluoch as the interim goalkeeper trainer. Whereas the transformation is ostensibly meant to address the tactical hitch that has seen the club's performance plummet in recent weeks, observers reckon there could be more to the development than meets the eye. The changes at the club have been overshadowed by claims of growing disquiet among players, who are at loggerheads with the management over accumulated pay. Even more disturbing are damning reports that the outgoing coach, Mark Harrison, and his assistant Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo, are leaving empty-handed. Spier will be K'Ogalo's sixth tactician in a space of two years. That's quite telling, isn't it? I mean, it can't be that all the five coaches hired by the club proved to be incompetent, at the end of the day. Whereas the club's honchos are reluctant to admit it, Gor's main problem has been the lack of sufficient resources to retain quality tacticians. How they get to convince them to join the club in the first place still baffles me. The rain started beating Gor the moment former shirt sponsors Sportpesa pulled out. Gor have been in the news for all the wrong reasons ever since. Unless the underlying issues at K'Ogalo are addressed, success will remain a mirage. Incessant leadership wrangles form the bulk of Gor's perennial headache. As we speak, the current office is polarised and some officials are not on speaking terms. When the club conducted elections last year, there was a renewed sense of hope among loyal fans who thought a timely change in leadership held out better tidings. Alas! Such thoughts ended up being mere hallucinations. The club is currently between a rock and a hard place as financial constraints continue to bite. What's even more telling is the palpable desire of some players to seek greener pastures after months of frustrations. The tension existing between the office and the players played out in public after their Kenyan Premier League match against Bidco United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. It took the officials almost two hours to calm down enraged players, who were demanding payment. A player who didn't want to be mentioned said they had already endured enough and were keen on bolting should opportunities arise. “I'm already tired of playing for the club without being paid. I regret having joined the club in the first place given I had an option to sign for a rival team. I'm not ready to pen an extension once my contract expires,” said one of the players. The office must swing into action and rectify the situation before matters boil over. There is no question about the challenges clubs are facing globally especially after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, like any other entity, it behoves a club of Gor's calibre to figure out a fallback plan should push come to shove.