Operations in public health facilities in Kwale have paralysed for the second day after health workers started their strike on Wednesday over delayed salaries and lack of promotions. The doctors are demanding to be paid Sh15.7 million of accumulated arrears and allowances from 2018. However, Governor Salim Mvurya warned the striking health workers would be sacked for absconding their duties, terming the strike as illegal. The doctors vowed to stay put. The medical practitioners had issued a seven-day strike notice on January 24. Bakari Karisa who has had bladder surgery and came for his weekly check-up went back home unattended after waiting for hours. He had travelled from Kinango but did not get services at the Kwale Subcounty hospital. I was told to wait for the doctor however, none of us has been served,” he said. Similar scenarios were witnessed in other county public health facilities. Karisa is worried about getting an infection as the urine bag has to be replaced frequently and his health monitored. He hopes the strike ends soon because he can't afford health services from private hospitals. Amina Hamisi whose two-year-old son had a night fever was disappointed for lack of services. “I don't know what to do, my son is very sick and I haven't received any help,” she said. Hamisi said at some point the doctors are on a go-slow and it takes hours to serve the next patient. Mwanajuma Ali from Bombo village had to seek health services in a private facility. Ali said she had to beg the hospital for services and promised to pay later because she had no money. Fatuma Bakari opted to survive on painkillers and went home untreated hoping for services to resume. However, recent attempts by health workers to reach a consensus between the county and doctors have failed. On January 28, the health workers and Kwale government held a meeting in Msambweni but disagreed. The county promised to pay the doctors all the pending arrears on February 28 and asked for more time to work on the promotions. The doctors, through the Kenya Kwale Branch Kenya National Union of Nurses chairperson Tobias Onyango, rejected the offer and promised to down their tools if not paid. “There will be no services in all public facilities in Kwale effective February 2 if the employer would have not met our demands,” he said in a press briefing in Msambweni Referral Hospital. However, Mvurya said the county does not owe anyone and workers are paid on time. The doctors claim some have been stagnant in the same job group for years contrary to the law that requires one to be promoted after three years. Mvurya said the county has been promoting some in phases and already 381 health workers have been approved for promotions. He said the doctors are impatient and have no reasons to strike saying in the next payroll will have the money in their accounts. He said headcount exercise is ongoing in all health public facilities. “It is not a must you work in Kwale, we have provided you with everything and can't tolerate your behaviour, if you don't work, you will be fired,” he said. Efforts of health workers to demonstrate flopped on Thursday. Edited by Kiilu Damaris