Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday came under fire over his remarks on the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Kenyan embassy in Kinshasha expressed displeasure at Deputy President William Ruto’s remarks on DRC as ODM leader Raila Odinga waded into the matter. Raila castigated the DP demanding that he apologises over his unfortunate remarks capable of creating a diplomatic tiff between the two friendly nations. “The DP must own up and apologise to the government and the people of the Democratic Republic of Congo,” Raila said. Ruto while addressing business community in Nyeri county, insinuated that the Central Africa nation has no single cow. “We have a market here to DRC which has 90 million people but not a single cow,” Ruto said during the meeting with Nyeri business community. Raila described the remarks as reckless and disappointing to come from a person of the DP’s stature. In a statement to newsrooms, the former premier said DRC is a friend of Kenya and the attack by Ruto is unwarranted and short sighted. “Ruto’s attacks on the DRC are a manifestation of a reckless lack of vision and foresight, a pathetic failure to see where opportunities abound for Kenya,” Raila said. Raila’s comment came on a day  Kenya ambassador to DRC Amb Dr. George Masafu issued a statement expressing dissatisfaction with Ruto’s DRC comment. Already, Masafu has written to Kenya’s Foreign Affairs ministry protesting the remarks. According to Masafu, the remarks have not gone down well with the business community terming it an insult. “The embassy has informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Nairobi on the negative reactions that the comments have triggered among the business community and general populace in DRC,” Masafu said in a statement. “The Kenya embassy wishes to reiterate that the government and the people of Kenya share a deep and respectful historical relationship with the government and people of the DRC. This relationship stretches back to the independence of our respective countries.” 