Nairobi County Assembly is mourning the death of Deputy minority leader Mellab Atemah Lumalah who passed away on Monday morning after a long illness. Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura told the Star that the legislator was undergoing treatment and they received the sad news early in the morning. “Indeed it is true that we have lost one of our own who has been ailing for a while now. Mellab was part of the house leadership and carried her duties effectively,” he said. Mellab, who is an ODM Party nominated MCA, had been on treatment in India until her demise. She succumbed to cancer. Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu eulogised Mellab as someone who broke many barriers to become a Nominated MCA, and later appointed Deputy Minority leader. The governor said her biggest aspiration this year was to vie for an elective seat in the August 9 polls. "On behalf of the people of Nairobi County and on my own behalf, I want to convey my deepest and heartfelt sympathies to Fredrick and Myles. My thoughts and prayers are with  you during this trying time." When the assembly resumed sittings from its long recess early this month, Speaker Mutura had communicated to the house on Mellab’s health status. “Hon. Members, you may also be aware of one of our us, Hon. Mellab Atemah Lumalah, Special Elect Member from the Orange Democratic Movement who has been on treatment in India since December last year, I request for your healing prayers,” he said. In 2020, the late Atemah was appointed the deputy minority leader as the ODM party streamlined its leadership at the assembly. Passing his heartfelt condolences, Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo highlighted that Mellab faced a challenge to her life by way of a grave illness, with great courage. "As an assembly and part of the leadership, we have lost an iron lady who was not only a colleague but dignified leader who served effectively." “This is particularly a difficult and painful time for his family. In extending to them our heartfelt condolences, we wish them courage and strength to bear this irreparable loss,” he added. On behalf of the ODM leadership in the house, Minority Whip Peter Imwatok eulogised Mellab as a loyal and staunch party member who was respected among her peers. “It's indeed very sad to us as a family of ODM to lose a great friend and a powerful support base of baba in the assembly more so our deputy minority leader. may her soul rest with Angels,” he stated. The late Mellab was an active member of the house during plenary sessions and was the seconder of the controversial motion passed by the assembly to ban commercial sex workers in Nairobi, back in 2017. Edited by B. Oruta