Vihiga Senator George Khaniri will not work with ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi because of Deputy President William Ruto. The senator, who was elected on the ANC ticket, said he will work with a party that is in Azimio la Umoja to vie for the Vihiga governor seat. Khaniri spoke on Sunday in Sabatia sub-county at Muholera PAG. “We have supported this man for many years, but this time we are sure he is going to get that seat in this forthcoming general election,” Khaniri said. “As Vihiga people, let's rally behind Raila Odinga and support him. Once he gets it, we shall also be able to pick it from him,” he added. The lawmaker urged residents to remain vigilant and cast their vote where the power is heading. He said it’s shameful to vote for a community that has been in power for the last 46 years, yet there are some communities that have never tested power since independence. “President Moi served for 12 years as vice president and 24 years as head of state, Deputy President William Ruto has served two terms in office. What of other communities?” Khaniri said. The senator has been a long loyalist to Mudavadi; his defection seems to rattle the ANC party within Vihiga county. Khaniri is the latest defector from ANC. A number of lawmakers had defected from the party after the ANC party boss declared he will work with DP Ruto during the NDC at Bomas. Others who defected include MPs, Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Oscar Nabulindo (Matungu), Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero),  Ayub Savula (Lugari) and a section of  MCAs from Western. However the exodus in ANC has been attributed to Mudavadi’s failure to consult stakeholders within Western and the ANC party at large. Khaniri said he will not follow Mudavadi into Kenya Kwanza Alliance and would instead support Raila's presidential bid. "As a person of Vihiga, my stand is that I am in Azimio la Umoja of Raila Odinga. I am supporting Raila's presidential bid. Let Mudavadi go alone in Kenya Kwanza," he said. Khaniri termed Mudavadi's move as a big political miscalculation that is likely to land him in political coldness. The lawmaker said Mudavadi has gone against Elija Masinde’s prophecy that Luhyas will get the presidency from the lake. “Mudavadi should have remained close to Raila under Azimio la Umoja and pushed for the presidency together, he was to benefit a lot,” he said. He added that Mudavadi had been working very well with Raila and he stood high chances of getting full support from the ODM leader when the right time comes. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)