Shujaa face champions South Africa, the USA, and Canada in a tricky Pool A in Singapore Sevens set for April. Following an underwhelming performance in Seville over the weekend where they finished ninth overall picking eight points, Kenya will open their campaign against Mike Friday's USA. This will be followed by a tough encounter against the in-form South Africans and close their preliminary assignments against Canada. South Africa have won the four opening tournaments and are unbeaten in 35 matches. Pool 'B' will see eternal rivals Australia and England collide alongside Spain and Samoa, who are expected to make their first-ever appearance since the 2020 World 7s Series. Olympic bronze medallists Argentina headline Pool 'C' and have a date with Scotland, Wales, and New Zealand. New Zealand are also expected to make a return after missing the 2021 World 7s Series and the opening four rounds in 2022. This season's surprise package Ireland will be seeking to continue their superb run when they face France, Japan, and Fiji. Skipper Nelson Oyoo said the team salvaged pride by amassing eight points after a torrid first day when they lost to Australia 42-0 and Scotland 17-12 to drop to the classification matches. “We really had to fight hard after losing two games in the pool stages.  The boys showed character but going forward, we must do better and aim for the main cup quarter-finals," he said. Shujaa beat Canada 24-5, Germany 22-5, and 24-19 extra-time win over hosts Spain in the 9/10th place playoff match. Oyoo hopes the team can use their experience in Serville to improve on their performance in Singapore. "We need to minimize errors, win our kickoffs and improve our transition to defend and we will be competitive," added Oyoo. Commenting on their pool, the Nakuru RFC winger said there are no easy groups and the team must show resilience. "We have beaten USA and Canada before and it's a game of margins.  South Africa will be a tough nut to crack but we will fight until the end,” he added. Standings South Africa 88 Argentina 70 Australia 66 USA 46 Ireland 46 England 38 Kenya 31 Spain 29  