Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to give businessman Stanley Livondo a job because "he is desperate". Echesa said Livondo is used to being misused by the state “to do dirty jobs” instead of asking for a good job. “Why can’t Uhuru give him a good job if he means well for him?” he said. He said the wild allegations by Livondo that some people planned to assassinate the President were part of a wider scheme by the state to whip emotions against Deputy President William Ruto ahead of the Sagana III meeting and it will not achieve anything. “Azimio team has realised that they can’t remove Mt Kenya region people from the DP and now want to use ethnic emotions to drive a wedge between him and the people but it won’t work. It’s too little too late. Kenyans are not fools,” Echesa said on the phone on Wednesday. He said the DCI should make public the report filed by Livondo to substantiate his wild claims. “Let the DCI tell Kenyans what Livondo told them," the former CS said. He said Livondo was embarrassing Luhyas by accepting to be used to tarnish other people’s names. Livondo on Saturday claimed that some people had twice attempted to assassinate the President. This was during the homecoming of Gatundu MP Moses Kuria from hospital in Thika. The Serious Crimes Unite at the DCI summoned Livondo over the remarks on Monday and asked him to return on Thursday. Livondo told police he has evidence to support his claim and wants those deemed witnesses to be protected. He also asked for his security to be boosted. "I have given what I have and I want all my witnesses to be ready. I have also asked that my witnesses be provided with security because this thing is big," he said. Kuria had asked DCI boss George Kinoti to investigate claims made by Livondo on Saturday in Thika. "You have a friend who attempted to crash your plane twice, will you forgive him? The first attempt was when President Uhuru Kenyatta was leaving Kisumu and the second attempt was when he was going to the US through Dubai and he had to make a detour," Livondo said. Edited by A.N