Raila Odinga's visit to Kwale on Tuesday brought together four ODM governor hopefuls, calming a rivalry that had ripped them apart. For the first time aspirants Chai Lung'anzi, Hamadi Boga, Agness Zani and Sammy Ruwa shared a podium. Previously the leaders engaged in supremacy battles on who should host Raila. When he toured the region in January for Azimio la Umoja launch at Matuga Girls High School, Boga, Lung'anzi and Ruwa's supporters clashed and jeered each other. Lung'anzi snubbed the rally, with inside sources saying Raila favours Boga for the ODM ticket. However, on Monday supporters of the four candidates danced together as a sign of solidarity. Each group allowed their opponents to freely enjoy the moment and as they raise their posters high shouting names of their preferred candidates. Lung'anzi attended the event accompanied by Kwale Senator Issa Boy, Boga, Ruwa and Zani also received a grand reception as the crowd cheered at Mwangulu in Lunga-Lunga. During the speeches, all leaders were given a fair opportunity to sell their manifesto as their supporters remain cool unlike in previous meetings. Boga, a former Agriculture PS said he wants to use his profession to serve Kwale residents. The governor hopeful said he will address food insecurity and unemployment through agriculture. "We want to create employment opportunities for our youth, and fulfil the Azimio agendas," he said. Boga pledged to fight corruption and tribalism to better the lives of residents. Lung'anzi said he will unite Kwale residents and put an end to tribal politics. The former Kenya Ports Authority employee said he is looking forward to an industrious future. Lung'anzi further said he will set up industries to provide employment and improve the county's economy. Ruwa said he wants to bring change, job opportunities and embrace technology to improve lives. "My focus is to transform the economy and create a conducive business environment for residents," he said. However, Zani said she will ensure Raila gets maximum votes in his presidential bid. Zani also said she will also upgrade the living standards of residents and ensure enough jobs are created. The four will battle for the ODM ticket in April. In an interview during the mass voter registration held in Kombani last week, the four vowed to support each another even after the nominations. County ODM chairman Suleiman Mwanyoha said the party will conduct  free and fair nomination exercise. "As ODM we don't discriminate against anyone and all shall be given equal opportunities," he said. While chairing the rallies, Raila didn't endorse any candidate. He completely avoided taking sides and concentrated on his Azimio campaign. In his previous tours, Raila said the party learnt a lot in the Msambweni by-election and won’t repeat the same mistake. Then ODM had favoured Omar Boga, Hamadi’s brother causing division among party members. Others contesting the Kwale governor seat include Fatuma Achani and Chirau Ali Mwakwere. Achani enjoys the support of Governor Salim Mvurya.