Kemri has released the first locally made test kits for Covid-19 and malaria. The two were launched on Tuesday by Health CAS Rashid Aman. They were made by researchers at the Kenya Medical Research Institute. Aman said the Ministry of Health will start buying the kits in bulk. “We have done about three to four million Covid-19 tests so far and they are expensive. The ministry will support Kemri with production and will be the main consumer of the product,” he said. The CAS spoke in Nairobi where he opened the Kemri annual scientific and health conference. Kemri said its Covid-19 test kit, known as KEMcov-19, will retail at Sh1,600 per test, compared to the imported kits that cost about Sh2,600 per test. The Kemri kit comprises a master mix and a probe mix for qualitative pathogen detection and characterisation of SARS-Cov-2 RNA It works with samples mined from the throat or from deep inside the nose. A single piece of the malaria test kit will retail at Sh60 compared to the existing kits that go for Sh300 apiece. Damaris Matoke, a molecular biology scientist at Kemri, said both kits have been reviewed and registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “They are available nationally and can be used in local health facilities nationally,” she said. “During testing, they were found to have 100 per cent sensitivity and specificity.” The two measures describe the accuracy of the test in determining if someone is positive or negative. Commercial manager Cecilia Wanjala estimated that, with wide uptake in Kenya, the local malaria kit would save the government Sh58 million every year. She said Kenya would save about Sh405 million in one year if it takes up locally made Covid-19 kits. “The proceeds will then strengthen local research and development at Kemri,” she said. But Kemri will find an already shrinking Covid-19 test kits market dominated by cheap imports from Asia and Europe. The major testing types include RT-PCR tests, rapid antigen tests, and rapid antibody tests. Currently, one of the cheapest test kits was introduced by Unicef early last year and was approved by the World Health Organization for emergency use in March 2021. The Unicef test is now available for Sh290 per test – for comparison, other rapid diagnostic tests for Covid-19 are currently available for Sh454, but the cost might go higher after importation. “With many countries procuring rapid tests in the millions, this creates significant savings that will be essential as they respond to the pandemic,” Tatsiana Ptashnik, contracts manager with Unicef supply division’s health technology centre, said in a statement. “The less budget countries need for diagnostics the more resources they can direct to vaccines or essential medical equipment for hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, saving more lives.” Edited by Henry Makori