Kisii governor hopeful Omingo Magara has declined a request by his UDA rivals to abandon Governor James Ongwae's succession race and instead shift his focus to the Senate seat. United Democratic Alliance Kisii governorship hopeful Rachel Otundo said Magara was better poised to win the senatorial seat. "I think he (Magara) should begin listening to the ground because most people are of the opinion that he is ideal for the Senate seat than the managing the county wealth," said Otundo during party aspirants meeting at Alexandria Resort in Kisii. Magara, who was present at the Friday meeting, turned down the advice saying he has all that it takes to be the county boss. He, however, said the most pressing  issuefor now was to secure victory for DP William Ruto when the country goes to the polls in August. "This should be the clarion call for all of us, let's stop this backbiting, we are a team, let's focus on the goal," he stated. The function was attended by all aspirants seeking seats for governorship, parliamentary and  county assemby. Among those who attended are Kitutu Chache North aspirant Ogamba Migosi and governorship hopeful Akunga Nyangweso among others. Migosi also doubles up as a member of DP William Ruto's think thank. The party branch has been suffering defections lately due to constant infighting by the officials. On Thursday, Ruto in a WhatsApp group told off those opposed to the joining of the party by other members. He said it is such behaviour that was weakening the party in Kisii. Governorship hopeful Ezekiel Machogu has already signalled his intention to join the party amid protests by a section of disgruntled elements in the party. On Friday, Magara asked the members to rally together for the common good of the party. "Let's accept that this infighting is causing us divisions which are not healthy to a party that wants to win in the General election," he said He said he is willing to back any other candidate who would win the ticket for the seat. "This should be the spirit of all aspirants who are seated here today," he said. Migosi, on his part, said the bottom-up economic model was all about empowering those in the lower rungs in society. "This should be the gospel that we should preach to our people. We must crystallize this to our people as we sell the UDA manifesto," he said. The party, he observed, was on a serious growth trajectory and asked the members not to feel uneasy with the coming of new members. "A party is like a church, it only grows with more members. No party grows by shutting its doors," he told the Star. Similar sentiments were aired by Woman Rep hopeful Dorothy Mamwancha. Mamwancha told the members to be good ambassadors of Ruto instead of fighting those who were in the camp already. There was momentary drama after a man was ejected from the meeting for heckling speakers. Meanwhile, youths allied to UDA senatorial hopeful Okengo Nyambane have vowed to lead peaceful campaigns. Group leader Kevin Mosomi said Nyambane candidature embodies the aspirations of the youth and asked all youth across the County to rally behind him. 