Former Garissa governor Nathif Jama has hinted at forming an alliance with the Samawadhal community which resides in Ijara constituency. Jama said with a strong alliance and his development record, which remains unmatched, his will be an easy victory. The former governor spoke on Tuesday in Masalani town. “As you are all aware I am in Azimio that is being spearheaded by Raila Odinga. Senator Abdul Haji is also part of this winning team. "We are in talks and soon we will have a breakthrough that will see us make a formal announcement of the alliance,” Jama said. He said he believes that his firm leadership and strong administrative credentials have helped achieve developmental milestones in Garissa. Garissa is inhabited by three major clans namely the Awlihan, Awdhaq and the Samawadhal. Jama is from the Awlihan. Since devolution, the three communities have been teaming up to balance clan equations and win available seats in the county. The Senate and deputy governor seats have been going to the Samawadhal. The Samawadhal clan has nine sub clans namely the Abokor Aden, Hassan Aden, Abdikarim, Baha, Rer Suleiman, Ashantalis, Mahad Abdalla, Rer-Mohamed and Abdalla Muse. IEBC data shows that Ijara constituency has 30,000 registered voters. Local analysts say the choice of a running mate will have an impact on the election outcome. Last month, the Samawadhal community endorsed Garissa Senator Abdul Haji to defend his seat in the August polls. Haji's endorsement at the Masalani Baraza Park was attended by several leaders and elders from the nine sub clans of the Samawadhal community. Haji said that going forward they will be teaming up with other clans residing in our county with a view of forming the next county government. In 2017, the Samawadhal entered into a pact with Abduwak under the Tolomoge alliance. They then shared elective seats on the Jubilee Party ticket. The Abduwak took governor, woman representative and Garissa Township MP positions while Samawadhal had deputy governor and Senate positions. Local political analysists say the Hajis still hold a lot of influence among the Samawadhal and whichever alliance they enter into or the candidate they support for governor will have a high chance of winning. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)