Kinna youths are on a mission to plant at least 10,000 trees this year, to counter the devastating effects of climate change. The Isiolo-based Kinna Green Ambassadors youth group have developed a 10,000 tree nursery with different tree species. Isiolo county is faced with perennial drought. This season, farmers are counting losses after it rained for only two months. The group intends to plant the trees along water catchment areas, schools, hospitals and some private entities. They also plan to educate members of the community on the need for environment conservation. In 2020, some 17 youth established Kinna youths to address issues of persist drought, flash floods, whirlwinds and environmental degradation. In April the same year, the youth won Sh2.9 million ABSA Bank award for their environment conservation initiatives. Group chairman Yunus Wako said they sought public support and vote hunt after a competitive vetting by ABSA Bank management. The bank had written on their twitter handles requesting Kenyans with community social responsibility initiatives to apply for the funds. Jane Maina, Absa bank head of sustainability, said two other groups majoring on women and girls empowerment from Samburu and Laikipia were also awarded similar amounts. Maina spoke on Thursday when she led a team of ABSA Bank officials to a tree planting exercise by Kinna youth. She said they had vetted a list of 200 applicants and the youths’ idea attracted the attention of many Kenyans. “It is good to see young people taking part in such projects. The bank continues to partner and support innovative ways that entrench solutions for future generation,” Maina said. Wako said when they started the initiative they never thought they would get any funding. "We are grateful to ABSA Bank for their interventions. We have leased land for a nursery bed with a capacity of 10,000 tree seedlings. We have planted 700 trees this year. "I challenge youths and institutions to support such initiatives. ABSA now have a good image in my community,” he said. The chairman said they have received only 30 per cent of the money. Kinna’s secretary Ali Hassan said they had become tired of writing proposals that were not fruitful but they never lost hope. He urged the county government of Isiolo and Kenya Forest Service to support their endeavours in saving the environment. Hassan said they have also planted vegetables and other fast growing food crops. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)