Deputy President William Ruto has told ODM leader Raila Odinga to come out of the shadows of President Uhuru Kenyatta and face him without help from the head of state. Speaking during the second day of Kenya Kwanza tour of Meru county, the Deputy President said the former Prime Minister has been giving the impression that the President is part of the August 9 contest. “Stop hiding behind Uhuru. Come out and face me. You should stop making it look like August 9 is a Kenya Kwanza versus Uhuru Kenyatta contest,” Ruto told a rally in Kiutine market, Igembe Central constituency. The Deputy President further said the Raila-led Azimio La Umoja Movement should not claim credit for any achievements of the Jubilee administration. “The Azimio group did not vote for Uhuru. Stop talking about the track record of the government. We will claim every credit because we voted for Uhuru,” he added. Over the last days, Ruto has maintained that no one can deny him credit for the Jubilee government achievement’s in the last 10 years. On Sunday, he reiterated that the August 9 polls pits Kenya Kwanza Alliance against Azimio La Umoja Movement and not Ruto against Uhuru. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi expressed confidence that Kenya Kwanza will resoundingly beat Azimio at the polls. “Where will they get the numbers? Where will he get the votes when the Rift Valley, Western and Mt Kenya are moving away from him,” he posed. He termed Raila as a baggage, who has to be carried along in any political formation that he is in. “We are happy that Uhuru got the excess baggage off our shoulders. We know that very soon you will also get tired,” he said. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula invited Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi to join the Kenya Kwanza bandwagon. “Kiraitu shares our thoughts, plans and vision for the country. He should be part of Kenya Kwanza team,” Wetang'ula said. The Kenya Kwanza team first worshiped at Maua Catholic Church before addressing other rallies in Igembe South, Igembe North, South Imenti and Buuri constituencies. Also present were Tharaka Nithi senator Mithika Linturi, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi and MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Alice Wahome (Kandara). Nyoro said Kenya Kwanza is assured of a landslide victory since most regions of the country support its leaders. Kindiki said Raila had formed the habit of harvesting where he did not plant. “We will not allow you to benefit from the sweat of Uhuru and Ruto,” he said. Ruto promised that his government will reduce the cost of farm inputs to boost agriculture. “Apart from reducing the cost of farm inputs, we will also look for markets for the produce,” he added. He assured Meru residents that his government will address problems facing the miraa farming. “Miraa is key in this area. I want to tell you that we have opened discussions with Somalia to reopen that market. We have also agreed as Kenya Kwanza that we need to look for other markets for the produce,” he added. “We will look for market for miraa the same way we do for coffee, tea and other cash crops that the country exports. There will be no brokers or cartels in agriculture.” Mudavadi and Wetang'ula promised that the cost of farm inputs will go down once they form government. “We want miraa farming to be on the same level with coffee, tea and other cash crops,” the Ford Kenya party leader said.   -Edited by SKanyara