A section of Mt Kenya MPs affiliated to the Jubilee Party have rubbished claims that the party is unpopular in the region. Led by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, the legislators said the party  is revamping and will be back on the national stage. Ngunjiri said he was shocked to hear some of the leaders elected on the Jubilee ticket talking ill of the party despite having been beneficiaries of the same party. “As members, we are strongly in it [Jubilee] and will continually support our party leader who is President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. Ngunjiri spoke on Monday during a meeting that brought together more than 1,000 Jubilee delegates in Mwea, Kirinyaga county. He urged all leaders who were elected on the party ticket but have since decamped to other parties to resign from their positions because they no longer subscribe to the party’s ideology. “We need loyalty in the party,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by Lari MP Jonah Mburu who said a section of regional leaders had fallen prey to political deception, ending up losing direction. The legislator said the those members should gather courage and come back home despite the hurdles, since most of them are living in regrets and are unable to rejoin the party. He said their input would be resourceful in putting the house in order as well as strengthening the party at the grassroots level. "We have not come here to campaign for any presidential candidate. We are meeting to strengthen the Jubilee Party at the grassroots level as well as to strategise on how our house can expand.” His Limuru counterpart Peter Mwathi condemned remarks made by some leaders who said some parties were mere briefcase entities over their lack of representation despite existing for a long time. “It is wrong to look down on some parties. Every party has a right to exist and to  carry out is constitutional mandate because most of these small parties have representation in any of the law making houses.” Mwathi said it would be unfortunate if some politicians are paid a handsome amount to abuse and discredit President Kenyatta's administration. Ndaragwa’s Jeremiah Kioni said the President was concerned over how Mt Kenya is being tricked into believing in lies despite having no one to negotiate on their behalf after his term expires. He expressed concerns over the formation of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance where none of the Mt Kenya leaders were principals to the coalition. This, he said, reduced the chances of sitting at the negotiating table on he behalf of the community. “The President is a bit concerned over how some Central Kenya leaders have stooped low and fallen at the mercy of other parties and coalitions," Kioni said. Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira said there is need to part of government so as to have easier access to resources. “We still need more roads in Kirinyaga and thus being in government will be an adde advantage. This will give us an easier time to negotiate on it as well as other projects necessary to be implemented in our county,” Wachira said. He said that 60 meetings will be conducted in the county in order to equip the county residents with civic education on the qualifications to look out from leaders asking for their votes. The team unanimously agreed to carry out an aggressive grassroots party campaign in region after the  ‘Sagana 3’ meeting with President Kenyatta.(edited by Amol Awuor)