Murang’a traders want an aspirant from the South to succeed Governor Mwangi Wa Iria in the August polls. The traders led by Joram Kinyanjui, said time has come for Murang’a South to produce the next county chief. The businessmen spoke on Tuesday at a Gatanga hotel in Murang'a. Wa Iria who hails from Kiharu constituency in Murang’a North, is coming to the end of his two-term tenure. Murang’a South consists of Kigumo (78,481 votes), Maragwa (96,078 votes), Kandara (98,633 votes) and Gatanga (96,004 votes). Murang'a North on the other hand consists of Kangema (48,730), Mathioya (54,940) and Kiharu (111,260). Already seven aspirants have thrown their hat in the ring as they seek to rise to the county’s top seat. They include Senator Irungu Kang’ata, former Planning PS Irungu Nyakera, former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau, Woman Representative Sabina Chege and philanthropist Stanley Kamau. Others are Dr Moses Mwangi who was floored in the 2017 elections by the incumbent Wa Iria and Water PS Joseph Wairagu commonly known as Wairagu Wa Maai. In the 2017 elections, Kamau who hails from Kigumo in Murang’a South, failed to clinch the Jubilee party ticket and lost to Wa Iria. He declined to contest for the seat as an independent candidate. Mwangi who also hails from Murang’a South has received blessings from the incumbent. He will be seeking to replace him on the latter’s Usawa Kwa Wote party ticket. Mwangi was officially unveiled as the party’s candidate by the party leader and presidential aspirant  Wa Iria on Monday. He will be banking on the gains of Wa Iria including the revival of the county’s dairy sector which improved milk prices from Sh23 to Sh35. Kinyanjui said the duel will be between Mwangi and Kamau [both from Murang’a South] but coined on Mwangi to carry the day. “We have witnessed the major transformation of various sectors spearheaded by Governor Wa Iria.  Most people were waiting for him to declare who he will pass the leadership baton to. "This is the turning point in the gubernatorial race. With the blessings of Wa Iria, Mwangi is likely to be the second governor of Murang’a,” Kinyanjui said. He dismissed claims that party politics waves will determine the outcome of the elections. Kinyanjui said despite Kang’ata being the UDA candidate, which is popular in the region, the politics of North and South will significantly dent his pursuit to rise to the coveted seat. “Voters in the South are wise now and will mostly vote for a candidate  from this region. It’s true that most areas in the South, especially the lower parts of Gatanga and Maragwa, have been lagging behind in developments. "Therefore, residents feel that if they get a governor from this region they will witness more developments. This is blow to Kang’ata despite being in UDA,” he added. Trader Barnabas Thethe said though the race was deemed as a two-horse race between Kang’ata and Kamau,  Mwangi with the blessings of Wa Iria will stage a spirited competition and might clinch the seat come August 9. Recently Kang’ata in his campaign tour appealed to Murang’a residents to shun politicians who are scheming to divide the region along North and South. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)