The High Court has overturned the Tax Appeals Tribunal decision that shifted to the Tax Administration the burden of proving tax payments were made, calling it contrary to law. The burden of proof lies with the taxpayer, it said. In its appeal, the Tax Appeals Tribunal said Pearl Industries Limited had discharged its obligation of proving there was a purchase for Vatable goods. The tribunal had said it provided invoices and proof of payment for the supplies. The Tribunal had further assigned to the Commissioner the burden of proving Pearl Industries Ltd knew or ought to have known its transaction was part of a fraudulent scheme. In the end, it arrived at the wrong decision that the Commissioner failed to establish fraud, the court said. In an application for a VAT refund, a registered supplier of Vatable goods is expected under the tax laws to provide the original electronic tax register, signed delivery notes and payment documents. These are to enable the Commissioner establish whether the purchases took place in the first instance. In a judgment delivered on January 31, High Court judge David Majanja said both the Tax Appeals Tribunal Act and the Tax Procedures Act impose the burden of proof on the taxpayer. The taxpayer must prove an assessment is excessive or incorrect. The judge disagreed with the Tribunal that it was upon the Commissioner to prove that the invoices and deliveries were not genuine and that cash withdrawals made by Pearl Industries Ltd Banks went to persons other than its suppliers. The court further held  the documents requested by the Commissioner were not unreasonable or outside of the law as had been suggested by the Tribunal. The court said the request was within the Commissioner's powers under the Tax Procedures Act. “In this case, the pendulum of proof swung three times: the first was upon the Respondent (Pearl Industries Ltd), which it did by providing the documents requested by the Commissioner; "[The] second shifted to the Commissioner, who after reviewing the documents challenged their authenticity and validity. This meant the burden of proof finally swung back to the Respondent to prove that the Commissioner was wrong in its position and overall findings,” the judge ruled. In the case, the tax investigations by the Commissioner had revealed there was no sale or delivery of goods. Investigations showed a fraudulent scheme in which fictitious invoices and Electronic Tax Register receipts were being printed and sold clandestinely to companies to support VAT refund claims. The businesses from which Pearl Industries Ltd was claiming input VAT from were not registered for VAT, the investigations had established. (Edited by V. Graham)