Kenya's private sector executives expect a moderate economic recovery in  post-festive season months of January and February, but see an improvement as the year progresses. According to the Monetary Policy Committee Market Perception Index released yesterday by the Central Bank of Kenya, at least 60 per cent of the respondents expect the easing of Covid-19 restrictions, decline in infections, and notable increase in uptake of vaccines to boost economic activities. Back to school activities and spending, and front loading by businesses to achieve high performance in a bid to safeguard against any election disruptions later in the year were cited by 35 per cent of respondents as factors that would support economic activity in January and February. However, 54 per cent of respondents indicated that uncertainties around the Covid-19 pandemic and the variants still risks to economic activity in the next two months. The survey assessed the CEOs optimism in the growth prospects for their companies, sectors, and the Kenyan and global economies over the next 12 months. Most CEOs expects their companies to expand in the next one year, with confidence level at 53 per cent while 37 per cent of them feel things will remain the same. Ten per cent fear that their activities at their firms will drop. Majority of the top executives who project their sectors to largely remain the same as they recover from the Covid-19 turmoil stands at 51 per cent, with 35 per cent hoping their sectors to improve as the economy heals. The balance 22 per cent expect things to worsen over the next 12 months. They also expressed less optimism in the growth of the country's economy this year, with 43 per cent expecting it to stagnate while 35 per cent anticipate growth. Optimism for own company growth prospects and in the Kenyan economy, was mainly due to improved consumer demand, lower inflation and lifting of Covid-19 restrictions Similar sentiments are shared for the global economy, with 51 per cent expecting it to remain the same. While 39 per cent expect the economy to expend, 10 per cent think the economy will drop due to various uncertainties. The survey indicates that business activity remains largely at the same level, with orders, production volumes and the number of full-time employees remaining stable. Demand has stabilised following the easing of Covid-19 restrictions. Seasonal factors and minor disruptions due to Covid-19 measures at the country’s borders will see business volumes remaining at about the same levels, says the survey. Firms in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors reported higher prices of goods and services purchased on account of global supply chain disruptions, rising import costs, and commodity prices stabilising at higher levels. Increased demand was reported in the manufacturing sector, where firms reported a spill over of demand from Q4 of 2021 and increased business opportunities from the region. Slight increases in sales growth was also reported for firms in professional services which continued to experience strong business performance and a strong start at the beginning of the year which generally heralded improved business prospects. Exporting firms reported increased business from existing clients hence increased sales. Manufacturing sector firms also reported steady sales in 2022 Q1. Firms that anticipate lower sales growth attribute this to seasonal factors, with sales expected to pick up from the end of the first quarter of the year. The survey conducted up to January 3 targeted CEOs and other senior officers of 356 private sector firms comprising 38 commercial banks, one mortgage finance institution and 14 microfinance banks (MFBs). The other 302 are from non-bank private firms, including 84 hotels, through questionnaires sent in hard copy and by email.