At least eight aspirants have shown interest in the Malindi parliamentary seat, four of whom are in ODM. The incumbent Aisha Jumwa is eyeing the Kilifi governor seat. The latest entrant, Kenneth Karisa, hails from Amwamkare clan, one of the larger clans within the Giriama subtribe of the Mijikenda. Karisa on Tuesday urged the clansmen to bless his bid at his rural home in Jilore, Malindi, before he embarks on campaigns. The aspirant, who wore full traditional regalia, was blessed by two elders from his clan. Former Chief of Defence Forces General Samson Mwathethe, Kilifi secretary Arnold Mkare and top officials from the Amwamkare clan were present during the ceremony. Karisa, who runs a foundation that supports diverse projects in health, education and sports, banks on his projects and the population of his clan to clinch the seat. He said his mission is to use his network and authority to establish industries in the constituency so as to create job opportunities and uplift the economy. The aspirant said Malindi is facing many challenges because of over reliance on the tourism sector and lack of industries such as that of cashewnuts. Karisa urged Malindi residents to desist from electing leaders based on political parties’ saying they end up choosing the wrong leaders. “I decided to join politics because of the things I saw while running Karisa foundation. "There are so many problems here in Jilore and Malindi at large but if we join hands, they are issues we can address,” he said. Karisa urged residents to support him and ensure he is elected as MP so as to continue the work he has been doing with his foundation. The Malindi parliamentary hopeful said they need to elect leaders of kind heart who understand the problems of people so as to get solutions to their challenges. “There were times when tourism was thriving here but now the situation is bad. Only buildings are left and there is need to revive the economy of the constituency,” he said. Karisa will be battling for the seat with seven other aspirants including Phillip Charo, Amina Mnyazi, Jamaal Gadaffi, Lennox Pande all of ODM, together with Peter Ponda of UDA, Willy Mtengo of PAA and Nixon Nyule. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)