Former Kisumu county lands executive Vincent Kodera has intensified his quest for the Nyakach parliamentary seat in the August 9, polls. Kodera is seeking to unseat Aduma Owuor who is serving his second term and plans to defend his seat on an ODM ticket. The former executive has been holding strategic meetings with women, youth and professionals groups to outlined his agenda. He is set to launch his official campaigns on Friday at Sigoti in Nyakach. In an interview with the Star, Kodera expressed confidence that he will defeat Aduma in the forthcoming elections. Kodera said he will ride on the charitable work he has been undertaking in the area. Kodera and Aduma will battle for the ODM ticket in party primaries slated for April. Others eying the seat are Okoth Opande, Collins Apuoyo, Bob Vincent King'ora and Sam Osamba. Top on Kodera's agenda will be to unite the residents who he says have been divided based on clans for many years. He said the division is not healthy for developments in the constituency. “I would rally residents to work harmoniously to ensure we walk together in delivering on the development agenda to better lives,” he said. Kodera also plans to prioritise agriculture through modern farming methods for sufficient food production for domestic use and export. He said most of the food in Nyakach comes from neighbouring counties like Nandi, Kericho and Kisii yet the subcounty has huge fertile lands for agriculture. According to Kodera, there are 35, 553 households in Nyakach which consume vegetables worth Sh7.1 million daily, translating to Sh213 million in a month and all this revenues go to other counties. Kodera also looks towards initiating water projects which will tackle shortage of the precious commodity as well as improve road networks. He has pledged to work closely with the government through the Ministry of Interior to ensure maximum security, especially along the troubled border of Nandi, Kericho and Kisumu counties. Kodera also said he plans to tackle the historical injustices that have for many years affected residents of Sondu due to unending border dispute. “A constructive dialogue will end perennial Kericho-Kisumu-Nandi border disputes for the peaceful coexistence of residents on either side,” he said.