Politics took centre stage during the burial of former speaker Kenneth Marende's mum late Mama Dorina Marende at Mumboha grounds in Luanda. Politicians allied to Azimio la Umoja and Kenya Kwanza used the podium to drum up support for their respective political outfits. Addressing mourners, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the Mulembe nation had made a decision during the Bukhungu 2 declaration on the political path they will take. He said the region is solidly behind the Azimio la Umoja movement led by ODM leader Raila Odinga even as he told off the Kenya Kwanza alliance saying they have nothing to offer Kenyans However, Emuhaya MP Omboko Millemba, allied to Kenya Kwanza, rose to the defence of the function saying politics should not be used to divide the region. He urged leaders to instead use their divergent views to channel more development projects to the benefit of locals. "It's our right to be where we are the main point should be what we get should be the benefit of locals," he said. Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa urged the Mulembe nation to be wary of emerging political formations saying Azimio movement is the way to go for the region. The Defence CS also read a speech by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Wamalwa said he has never been out of power adding that his political permutation has never missed forming the next government in a succession race. Similar sentiments were echoed by Tana River governor Dado Godana and DAP Party leader Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wamunyinyi, who is also Kanuyi MP, said if the Mulembe nation speaks with one voice, the region will benefit greatly. "The signs have emerged and the next government will be formed by Azimio," he said. Kenya Kwanza politicians also drummed support for their camp even as they defended their outfit from attacks. Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and Vihiga county woman representative Beatrice Adagala maintained that it is their democratic right to engage with any political formation. The Kenya Kwanza formation has been accused of creating division in the region to divide votes in a bid to bar Raila from clinching the presidency. Edited by B. Marita