AFC Leopards' burning urge to boost their squad has been dealt a heavy blow after a letter written by a former player to the world football governing body, Fifa, scuttled their plans to acquire new signings. The limping 13-time Kenyan champions had hoped to hoist their fortunes in the Kenyan Premier League with the arrival of quality players. In an exclusive interview on Monday, the club's assistant coach Tom Juma said they had resolved to rope in fleet-footed teen sensation Josephat Lopaga from Posta Rangers and seasoned forward John Makwatta from Kenya Police. Harambee Stars offensive midfielder Cliff Nyakeya (Wazito), and budding youngster Victor Omune (KCB) were also in their plans. Juma confirmed the four players had expressed willingness to join the club and had even trained with them. “Efforts to bring Lopaga, Makwatta, and Nyakeya into the fold was aimed at sharpening the blunt attack that has seen us register more losses and draws than wins in their fixtures,” said Juma. However, Juma is upset that a far-reaching letter penned last year by Rwandan defender Soter Kayumba has thrown a spanner in the works and hampered their progress. Kayumba wrote to Fifa demanding to be paid Ksh1.8 million dues owed to him. “All was set to bring the players into the den but Kayumba's letter foiled our plans,” said Juma. Kayumba's letter provoked the wrath of Fifa who imposed a transfer embargo in March last year even as it emerged he was not the only one crying foul. Among those lining up for compensation are erstwhile gaffers Marko Vasiljevic, Andre Cassa Mbungo (currently with Bandari), and ex-players  Kayumba, Vincent Habamahoro, and Tressor Ndikumana. Juma, however, said they have rolled out a comprehensive plan to offset the debts in a frantic effort to free the signed players from Fifa's manacles. “We are sourcing for funds to settle the dues if our appeal falls through,” said Juma. Despite the turmoil that continues to wreak havoc on the club, Ingwe shook off their underdog's tag heading into last Sunday's Kenyan Premier League encounter to thump the more fancied Posta Rangers 3-1 at Thika Stadium. The win fired Leopards to 11th on the log, momentarily salvaging them from a relegation threat that had hounded them for the better part of the season. “We are happy with the progress of the team and, hopefully, we'll be able to replicate our performance against Posta Rangers in our subsequent fixtures,” said Juma. Coach Patrick Aussems' charges began the season on a torrid note and went on to blow hot and cold as the top-flight competition wore on. “We are keen to get out of the relegation zone and register a decent finish at the conclusion of the season. We can only do this if we strengthen our current squad,” said Juma. Meanwhile, Juma confirmed the return of defensive midfielder Collins Sichenje to the den after a six-month professional stint with PAOK FC in Greece.  