IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has expressed fears the electoral agency might not meet its target again in the second round of the enhanced voter registration. Speaking in Garissa at the county commissioner’s office during an inspection tour, Chebukati, however, expressed optimism that if Kenyans turn out in the remaining few days, they might significantly close the gap. The registration that began on January 17 ends on Sunday, February 6. Chebukati said the IEBC has so far registered a paltry 500,000 voters countrywide. In Garissa, they have registered 8,736 against a target of 24,000. “We are very far away from the national target. I know it is an uphill task but let’s cross the bridge when we reach there. It’s not too late, we still have one week. If Kenyans can come out in their numbers, we shall be able to serve them. Let us be hopeful,” Chebukati said. “My appeal to Kenyans across the country is to please take advantage of this last week and register so you can be able to elect leaders of your choice,” he added. The IEBC chair ruled out any further extension, saying it will be the final phase in preparation for the August 9 general election. Individuals can still register separately. Chebukati further praised residents of Garissa county for using the second phase to turn up in large numbers to register, saying it was so far the leading county with a total of 8,736 against a target of 24,000. During the first continuous voter registration between October 4 and November 5 last year, Garissa county was second with 50 per cent. Turkana was tops with 63 per cent. More than 5.2 million eligible Kenyans enrolled as new voters countrywide. “I want to confirm here that Garissa is doing very well as against other counties. We hope that by the end of the exercise many more with ID cards will have registered,” he said. In Garissa, some of the reasons that were cited for low voter registration include lack of ID cards, especially among the youth, voter apathy, lack of enough awareness and drought. Drought was said to be the main reason. However, Chebukati said since the government has issued  new ID cards recently, the youth who are yet to register should come out and do so. “My appeal to the residents is let us set a record with the remaining 16,000 youth coming out and register so you can fully participate in the August polls. This is your democratic right to elect the leaders you want,” the chair said. He appealed to local leaders to continue mobilising their people to register emphasizing the important role they have played throughout the exercise. Chebukati further revealed that all the electoral body’s programmes are running smoothly After the voter registration, the next activity will be the party primaries. He urged aspirants to promote their parties and conduct themselves peacefully. For those who don't follow the law the commission will have a process to deal with them through a code of conduct committee,” Chebukati said. He said the commission will continue to work closely with the office of the DPP,  the NCIC and security teams to tame politicians who misbehave. (EditEd by V. Graham)