A standoff has ensued at City Hall after Nairobi county workers on Tuesday went on a go-slow over poor working conditions. Services have been grounded at City Hall as a section of staff refused to report to their work stations and assembled outside City Hall Annexe. On Tuesday morning, the VIP entrance along City Hall Way which is used by the Governor and other high profile public figures was locked from the outside using a chain and padlock. The other entrance which comprises of the executive wing and City Hall Annexe were not spared, as the gates were also locked. The Kenya County Government Workers Union (KCGWU) had earlier raised concerns over non-functional lifts and poor working conditions at City Hall. In a letter dated February 10, the union’s Deputy secretaries Augustine and Calvince Okello highlighted that the poor working conditions have not only affected workers but also people visiting for services. The union argued that as a result of the ‘unwanted’ conditions, the staff are demotivated and productivity has also been affected. “This not only reduces productivity trends amongst individual employees but also contravenes the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of 2007, occupational safety and Health Act of 2007 and the collective bargaining agreement of 2013 on good and acceptable labour practices,” reads the letter in part. The letter was addressed to County Secretary and the County Public Service Board. The union called upon the county government to intervene and initiate an immediate solution. “It is our humble appeal to your office that you initiate an immediate solution to aid our workers and clients especially those with physical challenges from persistent suffering and unnecessary inconveniences." Consequently, the union had given the Governor Ann Kananu-led administration seven days to address the issues, failure to which, an industrial actions would proceed. “Should this take more than seven days from the date of this letter, the union which holds the mandate to voice on behalf of its members shall have no option but to resort to unspecified industrial action in accordance with the existing law to have the matter addressed in totality, reads the letter. To solve the issue, the union urged the county government to set aside Sh5 million to restore the lifts and repair the damaged toilets. “Noting that city hall faces auction by KCB Bank due to Sh4.3 billion loan, the union only wants Sh4 million paid to restore lifts and another Sh1 millions for toilet repair." Attempts to reach Governor Kananu and County Secretary Jairus Musumba were futile as they did not respond to calls and messages. Ironically, in the last Financial Year (2020-2021), City Hall had budget Sh90 million for renovations. Sh30 million was to be spent to refurbish offices, Sh10 million to repaint, while Sh40 million would be used for re-roofing and Sh10 million for rehabilitation of washrooms. In the current financial year, only Sh55 million was allocated; Sh15 million for painting offices and Sh40 million for reroofing. Edited by B. Oruta