Newly appointed Posta Rangers head coach, Salim Ali, has his work aptly cut out days after taking the reigns at the Kenyan Premier League club. The former Mathare United and Ulinzi Stars gaffer has expressed faith in the ability of the current squad to brush aside their underwhelming form witnessed in recent encounters and reclaim their foothold in the cutthroat Kenyan Premier League. The mailmen have won a solitary match in their latest five encounters and Ali, who succeeded Stanley Okumbi earlier in the month, admits he is worried about their wobbly and erratic run in the country's top tier. “I'd be lying if I said we are in good shape at the moment especially considering our latest results. We certainly need to step on the gas and register positive results in our remaining fixtures,” said Ali. “Bagging only one win in five consecutive encounters is nothing to smile about, so it is important that we put matters right. The sooner we do that the better,” said Ali. Ali, however, believes there is still enough time to turn around their fortunes as they frantically grope for a lifeline that will keep them in contention for the title this season. “It is the desire of every tactician to guide the team to a string of positive results and that includes me. I have assessed the team for the few days we have been together and I strongly believe we have sufficient depth to turn around our fortunes,” said Ali. After cementing a place in the top five towards the end of the first leg with a remarkable performance, Posta have increasingly found themselves on the receiving end, eventually slumping down to eighth on the log with 26 points. Ali's reign at the helm of the club experienced a torrid start with a heartwrenching 3-1 loss to AFC Leopards at Thika Stadium on February 13. The soft-spoken tactician said he will need some time to appraise his charges before he can ultimately lay his objectives bare. “Right now, I can't start placing my demands on the table given I only joined the team recently. We shall first have to play a couple of matches and make the necessary observations before I can make my season's objectives known to the players,” said Ali. 