The National Transport and Safety Authority has started training school children on safe road crossing. The authority is partnering with the private sector and targeting about 1,000 schools located along highways under the Vuka Salama Initiative. The authority pitched camp at Kimorori Primary School near Kenol town in Murang’a South subcounty to train more than 1,500 pupils on road safety. According to NTSA’s director general George Njau, more than 750 pupils are forced to cross the Kenol-Sagana highway which is currently being upgraded into a dual carriageway. The school was also provided with materials to help the children cross the road safely and ensure they are visible enough to motorists. Angela Kang’ethe, an official from Los Ninas Ltd, said they were able to do demonstrations and equip children with information on how to safely cross the road. Los Ninas Ltd deals with programmes that support social and economic development of children. The school, she said, was selected due to its high vulnerability and high population of pupils who are forced to cross the road everyday to access it. “This is a busy highway that poses a high risk to children and, as a community, we are pleased to provide training to the pupils,” she said. She said the programme will soon be rolled out nationally and invited more NGOs to come on board. The school, Kang’ethe said, lost a pupil a year and a half ago after she was hit by a car while she was crossing the road early in the morning. The school’s administration appealed for a footbridge and the partners said they would reach out to Kenya National Highways Authority to see if it can consider including it as part of the dual carriage construction works. “A footbridge would benefit the wider community and make it safer for people to use the road.” NTSA Central region manager Bora Guyo said it is the mandate of the authority to ensure Kenyans are safe while they use roads. The Vuka Salama Initiative, he said, was necessitated by the high number of lives lost in road accidents every year. In January alone, 322 people lost their lives while last year, 4,370 people died in road accidents, he said. Guyo said a footbridge is important near the primary school to help them navigate the high traffic and praised partners for facilitating the training. He warned miraa vehicles who speed, saying the authority will be conducting an enforcement operation against them from February 22 to March 14 in all affected counties. Kimorori Primary School head teacher  Peter Wahome said it has been a scary experience when children arrive in the school and leave in the evening. He said some motorists refuse to slow down even when flagged down to allow children to cross. “This is why we are asking the government to construct a foot bridge here so children will be able to go in and out of the school comfortably,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)