Valentine's day, is a day of love and gifts as most of us have had it ingrained in our minds from a tender age. February 14 is a day when couples look forward to meeting the high expectations and impressing their significant other, with social media pressures playing a factor in the type of gifts. And some single people, on the other hand, are left feeling lonely, sad, envious, and sometimes angry either at the universe or their ex who ruined their “could’ve been.” However, we all forget one important detail, this now acclaimed international holiday was originally not a day for lovers. Valentine’s Day is actually a Christian traditional feast day that was set by the Catholic Church to honor not one but two Christian martyrs named Saint Valentine. Emperor Claudius II of the ancient Romans executed two men — both named Valentine — on February 14 of different years in the 3rd century A.D. Their martyrdom, through Pope Gelasius, was honored by the Catholic Church with the celebration of St. Valentine's Day. However as the years progressed, folk traditions began shifting from the significant cultural and religious feast celebrations and started associating the day with romance and love. A tradition that first started from the common belief in France and England that birds started their mating season on February 14. Cooperates soon commercialized the celebration in most regions of the world. The day is eagerly anticipated with stalls and malls donning red all over, flowers, teddy bears and so many other treats linked to the day. Restaurants, on the other hand, are advertising their offers for couples to dine and spend the evening at their premises. Fun fact: Flowers and chocolates might seem like the obvious and most sort out gifts but according to statistics, jewelry is actually the most spent on Valentine’s Day gift choice, followed by reserved/walk-in date nights at restaurants. People tend to justify this by tagging along with the idea that St. Valentine is the patron of love. Valentine defied Emperor Claudius II's ban on marriage. The emperor thought it distracted young soldiers but Valentine continued illegally conducting weddings for couples in the spirit of love. He was caught and beheaded. However, the cause of his death is still unclear as some legends claim Valentine was killed for attempting to help Christians escape prison in Rome. Whichever it was, we can’t deny acts of love were involved. But it was love for his fellow humans, love for all people. So if the day is to be celebrated, it should be to embrace all the people in your life that you love and feel loved by. Not just set aside for your spouse or romantic partner. And self-love as well, because how can you ever truly love others if you don’t deeply love yourself?