A new poll has revealed ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is the most preferred running mate for Deputy President William Ruto. The poll released on Thursday by Trends for Insights Africa also showed that former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth is the ODM boss’s best running mate nationally. Musalia, who joined Ruto’s camp mid-January, polled 27 per cent of the 1,541 respondents interviewed by Tifa. Coming second in Ruto’s camp was Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru who was supported by 15 per cent of the respondents. This is the first time that Waiguru is dwarfing some of the DP’s pioneer allies including Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua in the battle for Ruto’s running mate. Gachagua received a popularity rating of 11 per cent followed by Kalonzo Musyoka at eight per cent. However, Kalonzo, who is also a principal in the One Kenya Alliance, does not support Ruto’s presidential bid. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata and Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro polled five per cent each while Kandara lawmaker Alice Wahome managed four per cent. In Raila’s team, Kenneth led the pack with a popularity rating of 41 per cent with Kalonzo coming in second with 18 per cent. Overall, the poll showed a strong show by women in the race for running mates. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua came third in the Raila camp with a rating of 13 per cent followed by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu at five per cent. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya had four per cent, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui had two per cent while Murang’a Woman Representative was among those who scored one per cent. On women running mates, Karua is considered the best female deputy for Raila at 44 per cent nationally. Karua was followed by Ngilu at 28 per cent and Chege at seven per cent. Notably, there were more male than female respondents with a preference for  Karua. Karua’s highest support as a female deputy running-mate for Raila is noted in Central. Other regions where she has higher support than Ngilu includes Eastern, Nairobi, Rift Valley and Western. Waiguru has the highest mentions for the most electorally beneficial deputy female running mate for Ruto with 40 per cent nationally. Apart from North Eastern, Waiguru has the highest mentions as the most ideal running mate for Ruto. Although Karua is currently in OKA, she is still mentioned as a possible ideal running mate to Ruto with 16 per cent. Wahome, a key Ruto confidant polled 10 per cent followed by Susan Kihika at three per cent. On who would be Ruto’s best running mate from Mt Kenya, Waiguru was top with 31 per cent followed by Gachagua at 14 per cent. Nyoro came third with 11 per cent followed by Karua at 10 per cent with ex-Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri polling six per cent. The best running mate for Raila from Mt Kenya region is Kenneth with 48 per cent followed by Karua at 29 per cent. Nakuru's Kinyanjui came third with four per cent. -Edited by SKanyara