Three-time world 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop believes the country's prospects in the three and half-lap race is in safe hands despite missing out on the Olympic title in Tokyo last year. Speaking during his first integrated track training at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret on Friday, Asbel said the return of Elijah Manang'oi after a two-year doping ban and the return to fitness of Olympic silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot puts the country in good stead heading into the World Championships and Commonwealth Games later in the year. He observed the country is also blessed with naturally talented milers who are always ready to challenge for top honours when the opportunity arises. “The return of Manang'oi and availability of Cheruiyot in 1,500m means Kenya is in safe hands at the moment," said the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games gold medallist. "We have seen a lot of development in the 1,500m race in as far as championships are concerned. I have also seen successful transitions by some talented young runners. If you look at the Olympics, Cheruiyot was the only experienced runner.” Asbel said his first track training session since January 2018 felt quite different as he ran one-mile three times and six 200m sprints. “It was so challenging to have my first session after four years of frustrations following the ban," said Asbel, still insisting he is innocent. Asbel, the 2007 world junior cross country champion, said he never felt comfortable training alone but he had to get used to doing it all alone in the bushes. “I feel relieved to train with my colleagues. My life is now coming back to normalcy and I really appreciate my friends who have welcomed me back,” he said. “I never expected that (the ban) to happen and when it happened, I lost friends and nobody wanted to associate with me, especially elite athletes. However, it was not their mistake. The situation defaulted everybody’s trust in me and it was understandable. I do not have any grudge but now I am back, hoping to make those relations once again.” He revealed he is planning a gradual rise back to the top with the World Championships in Oregon, USA his main target.