Political analyst Maxwell Kariuki has joined the race for Thika MP. The alumnus of Thabo Mbeki School of Public and International Affairs will be taking on bigwigs in the race. The race was previously dominated by former MP Alice Ng’ang’a and businessman cum preacher David Kariuki Ngari alias Gakuyo. Others in the race are finance and investment expert Njeri Karanja,  businessman Juma Hemedi, businessman Nduati Njuguna and Jane Kamunge (former Kiambu woman rep aspirant). Ng’ang’a will vie on a United Democratic Alliance ticket, while Gakuyo and Nduati are expected to run on a Jubilee ticket or any other party allied to the Azimio la Umoja. Njeri will contest for the seat on a Chama Cha Kazi ticket led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Kariuki, who spoke to the Star in Thika town on Sunday, said he is yet to settle on the party he will vie on. He said he is currently hitting the ground to woo voters for their support, where he has adopted the door-to-door campaign model. The political scientist is currently enjoying support from youths in Thika. He was born and raised in Thika’s Majengo informal settlement. Kariuki said he is seeking to replace current MP Patrick Wainaina (who is vying for the Kiambu governor seat), to offer Thika residents a transformational and value-based leadership. He condemned the trend of youths being misused by some politicians to satisfy their selfish political ambitions. Kariuki said time was ripe for youths to rise to elective positions to steer the country forward. “Our generation, though neglected, underrated and misused, has exceptional ideas in every field to propel Kenya forward. They are rich with talent and innovation,” he said. “Besides creating decent job  opportunities for  them, tripling internships, bursaries, and mentorship programmes, I believe the time is now to start investing in their innovation and build their talents through sports, arts, culture and recreation.” He said poor leadership has been the major reason for underdevelopment in the region. “Despite millions of money being channelled to Thika through the National Government Constituency Development Fund, residents are still grappling with a lack of basic amenities like water,” Kariuki said. “This shows there’s a leadership gap in this region. We will fill this gap by electing young blood in the leadership positions, to actively lobby for vital resources of our people.” However, a bruising battle in the Thika race is expected to pit UDA and Azimio la  Umoja aspirants. Edited by Kiilu Damaris