Politician Peter Kenneth and Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu have exuded confidence that ODM leader Raila Odinga will clinch the presidency in the August polls. Speaking at Tononoka grounds in Mombasa County during the Azimio la Umoja rally on Sunday, Governor Kananu rekindled the infamous memories of Tharaka Nithi saying they would load stuffed ballot boxes in pickups and bring them to Nairobi. “I come from Tharaka Nithi…. Do you know the history of Tharaka Nithi? In 2007, we took former president Mwai Kibaki to State House. And 2013 and 2017, we took President Uhuru Kenyatta to State House with our Miraa pickups. "I want to assure Baba (Raila) that in 2022, the pickups from Tharaka Nithi will come to Nairobi full of votes for Raila… Governor Joho should load Raila’s votes on SGR and trailers and bring them to Nairobi,” she said. Kananu further said she would protect the votes at all costs once they reach Nairobi. Her remarks come days after Murang'a Woman representative Sabina Chege hinted that the 2017 election was allegedly rigged in favor of Jubilee and that a similar move would be replicated in the 2022 polls. Kenneth, on the other hand, while addressing the same rally said those attacking President Uhuru Kenyatta are the same individuals who have been insulting ODM leader Raila Odinga. The former Gatanga MP, in an apparent attack at DP William Ruto, said the individuals have gone overboard to a level of disparaging other countries. “Those abusing Uhuru are the same ones abusing Baba… Baba while you were away, they ended up insulting other countries,” he said. Last week William Ruto was forced to apologize over a comment he made during a political rally in Nyeri over DR Congo. The comment sparked online anger with the Congolese nation demanding withdrawal of the remarks and an apology. The DP had told Nyeri residents that there was a big market for their dairy produce in DR Congo - and appeared to suggest that there were no cattle in that country. “We have a market in DR Congo…these people who are singers… These people have a population of about 90 million but they don’t own any cow," he said in Swahili - a clip that went viral online. DR Congo leaders and journalists described Ruto remarks as disrespectful and said the DP meant they were lazy people who only know how to sing. Ruto later apologized, saying his speech was "informal". “My speech was informal, and my use of certain effects was purely to underscore the magnitude of the opportunity and the urgency of the moment to a local audience. It was not intended to be disrespectful in any way,” he said in a statement. Raila is at Tononoka Grounds for the Azimio la Umoja rally. The presidential hopeful is accompanied by various leaders, including Mombasa Governor and ODM deputy leader Hassan Joho.