Lamu residents have raised concern over the dilapidated Kenya Ports Authority jetty whose pontoon section was closed off a year ago due to its state. The entire jetty is worth Sh235 million and was built in 2013. A pontoon is a heavy floatable metal used to load and offload cargo and passengers from marine vessels. However, after nine years of service, the pontoon at the KPA jetty is now worn out with the entire section having detached from the piles, posing a danger to navigation. Residents have urged the state to repair or replace the pontoon to prevent a scenario where it detaches or floats off as it might collide with sea vessels and cause accidents. In August 2018, a pontoon at the Mtangawanda Jetty detached from its piles and disappeared into the Indian Ocean, causing collision fears for sailors. It has never been recovered to date. The KPA pontoon section was sealed off from the public creating the impression that it would be replaced but that hasn’t happened one year on. Lamu island coxswain Mohamed Omar said the government had neglected the facility and failed to implement the necessary renovations or replacement to ensure it is safe for public use. “The pontoon comes in handy to help large vessels anchor but since its in bad state, both the small and large boats are forced to share the small available space on the other side of jetty. It’s very dangerous because accidents can easily happen,” Omar said. Boat passengers have been forced to use the staircases on the sides of the jetty which pose a danger as one can easily plunge into the ocean as there are no guard rails. “The stairs are slippery because of seaweed residue on them, and so one wrong step and you fall into the ocean. We really need the pontoon up and running,” Fatma Shee, a frequent user of the jetty said. In response, Lamu KPA senior superintendent in charge of the Lamu Jetty Abdishukri Osman said plans were underway to renovate the pontoon. He said the facility had to be sealed off to prevent people from using the structurally unsound facility and causing accidents. “We closed the pontoon for safety purposed but the renovation of the facility is currently under consideration by the civil department,” Osman said. Jetties are a crucial element of Lamu’s water transport system as they are the main entry and exit points for passengers and cargo coming to Lamu town and adjacent islands. At least 99 per cent of movement and transport by Lamu residents is done at sea.    -Edited by SKanyara