The Teachers Service Commission has seven days to reopen salary negotiations, Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers has said. Kuppet added that failure to reopen the talks will see teachers take industrial action over failed salary reviews. Kuppet will give the way forward after seven days. Speaking during a press conference, Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori said teachers have been yearning to receive better pay. "The union is left with no option but to convene our organs to explore all avenues open to us and guide our members in their quest for a salary increment," Misori said. This is even as 2021 candidates are expected to start their national examinations on March 7. Misori said teachers are determined to ensure their employer listens to their demands. "If TSC came here and told us that we can talk to you in three weeks then give a solution, why do we have to threaten a strike or industrial action?" he said. Misori said the twenty-one-day period issued on January,22,2022 elapsed without receiving substantive communication from TSC. “All the commission did was to acknowledge our letter and promise to respond substantively at a later stage after interrogating the contents,” Misori said. The Kuppet boss rubbished claims that teachers are fond of going on strike and said that they are only trying to fight for improved services. “I have heard some people saying Kenyan teachers like strikes, we are only interested in a decent life, improved security and basic pay so that we can also run our normal business,” he said. A number of demands were made to the commission to be fulfilled for the 2021-2025 Collective Bargaining Agreement. The teachers want a salary increment of between 30 to 70 per cent for the highest-paid and lowest-paid teachers. “The lowest-paid teacher's salary should rise from Sh34,995 to Sh59,425 while the highest should rise from Sh118,242 to Sh153,715,” he said. Commuter allowance is expected to be raised by between thirty to seventy per cent. “From Sh5,000 to Sh8,500 and from Sh16,000 to Sh20,800 for the lowest and highest paid teachers respectively,” he said. The union also requested for leave allowance to be equivalent to one month's salary for every grade. They further called for harmonised house allowance across all grades with a township allowance awarded to teachers in urban areas. “Introduction of risk allowance for science teachers, starting from Sh5,465 for the lowest paid and highest paid Sh39,587,” Misori said. Kuppet wants the increment of hardship allowance, the introduction of postgraduate allowance, and overtime allowance for teachers in boarding schools. The teachers also want SRC to do away with the pay increase freeze that was occasioned by Covid-19. Salaries And Remuneration Commission chairperson Lynn Mengich previously said the commission will review the situation at the end of the two fiscal years. Teachers' unions, which were calling for a bargaining agreement had to wait for 24 months.