The race for the Kericho governor seat is set to take a new shape in the run-up to the April nomination following the entrance of former devolution cabinet secretary Charles Keter. Keter resigned from the government on Tuesday to concentrate on his political ambition. In what might, however, prove to be a hot contest for his competitors, the former CS has received the backing of all members of the parliament from the county. They even flanked him during a press conference in Nairobi, a clear indication they are behind him and complicating the matrix for other candidates in the race. "I have the vision and commitment to pursue development agenda for the great people of Kericho... My leadership skills at the Cabinet and my long political experience put me in the best position to transform the county into a model for other counties," he said. There has been uncertainty among the other candidates in the race on whether Keter was to vie for the seat but his move to accompany Deputy President William Ruto during his tour of the region last month sent chills among them. “There have been rumors that I do not support the deputy president, but I want those propagating it to be ashamed,” he said during the rally at Moi gardens in Kericho town. It will, however, not be rosy for Keter who has nicknamed himself transformer as he will face stiff competition from opponents, who include the vibrant and youthful university don Erick Mutai. Mutai currently commands sizeable support from the youth who feel it is time to have fresh blood in the county leadership. He derived the nickname from his earlier position as the Energy CS, where he was tasked with ensuring all areas and homesteads in the county get electricity. Keter has never been defeated in a race since he joined politics and political pundits are arguing that it will not be a smooth ride for Keter. Others in the race are Prof James Sang, who is also a university lecturer, current deputy governor Lily Ng’ok and businessman Fred Kirui, who lost to Chepkwony in 2017 and who are also promising a tough battle in the forthcoming nomination. They are all eyeing the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party ticket. So intense and competitive is the race that all energies and political machination are being directed at having Keter easily floored if he throws his hat into the ring. Local opinion polls are placing Keter ahead of the rest if the election was to be conducted today. Kericho has six sub-counties; Buret which is Mutai's turf, Ainamoi, Kipkelion West and Belgut which is Keter’s base, Soin/sigowet and Kipkelion east are a swing vote. There have been reports that Mutai is working on a formula with his opponent-Kirui from Kipkelion west-to have one of them run for the seat while the other remains as a running mate. But Mutai has, however, dismissed it as untrue. “There is nothing like that, I am in the race and not ready to step down anyone… I respect all my competitors, and we are all competing on fair level ground for this job,” said Mutai in an interview with the Star. Top on his agenda, Mutai says he wants to work on the county budget to ensure all the sub-counties have a fair share in terms of development projects to the benefit of the people. On the management of multinational tea farms in the county, Mutai, who says has vast experience in management, says his administration will review the rates it remits to the county from its current state and also the abolishment of tea plucking machines, which he notes rendered many jobless. “These farms used to employ about 13,000 people who are now jobless, it is unfortunate that the introduction of these tea picking machines rendered many jobless,” he added. Keter is a long-serving legislator of Belgut and many believe he has not done enough for the Kericho people even despite holding a plum job as a cabinet secretary. The 'money factor' has been cited as one of his key advantage that might give him an upper hand as compared to other candidates, but which many say may not work for him this time around. "He has been in politics for long and knows how and when to fire the last bullet... It might not work well this time around because people have already made their decisions," said Joseph Langat, a political analyst from Kericho town. Ng’ok, who is being fronted by Governor Paul Chepkwony, is the first woman to express her interest in the seat. She argues that she yielded to pressure from elders and opinion leaders from across the county who persuaded her to contest for the seat. She has expressed confidence in succeeding Chepkwony. “I have traversed the whole county meeting people and they have told me that I am equal to the task. That is the reason I have decided to go for it to succeed Governor Chepkwony,” she said during an interview at a local vernacular radio station. Top on her agenda is to ensure all the sectors of the economy, such as agriculture, are working so that the livelihoods of the people are transformed. Sang says education is top on his agenda for the people and he intends to increase the support to have more needy students pursue education if elected. On his part, Kirui has pledged to enhance the agricultural sector so that farmers can reap expected benefits from their produce. He says he has developed a clear strategy that will see each of the sub-counties developed into a business hub to the benefit of the residents.