Migori speaker Boaz Okoth stands impeached, following a ruling by the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu. On Tuesday, Justice Stephen Radido vacated the orders which allowed Okoth to continue serving as speaker. On February 8, the county assembly moved a motion to impeach him. The motion was presented by Muhuru MCA Hevrone Mahira. He later sued the county assembly and clerk . On February 15, Okoth got conservatory orders staying the decision of the respondents made on 8th in which they purported to impeach him. The conservatory orders of stay held that Okoth was to continue serving as the speaker, pending hearing and determination of the petition. The court also issued conservatory order restraining the respondent from dissolving Migori county assembly service board. Following the ruling, a fresh application was filled by lawyer Cliford Otieno Obiero to stay execution of court order and ruling dated February 15 until the application is done and concluded. Obiero filed the fresh application on behalf of the county assembly and the acting clerk. He said on February 15 the court entered a ruling against the two respondent in a proceeding in which they were represented by Nelson Jura & company advocates, who is also the petitioner’s lawyer and represents him in two cases. Obiero said if the ruling and order of 15th is not stayed, then the county assembly and public are likely to suffer prejudice that cannot be compensated in monetary terms. The application was filed on Saturday on grounds that there was a justification for reviewing the court ruling dated February 15. The lawyer said the petitioner (Okoth) approached the court seeking remedies reserved for persons with clean hands without disclosing to the court that he is facing multiple graft-related charges and should not be in office in the first place. He said the charges were concealed by Jura. Obiero also said the advocates (Jura)’s presentation was tainted with conflict of interest and he failed to inform the court of his personal interest in and affiliation with the petitioner. “As a result of the foregoing circumstances, the respondents believe that they were not represented or heard during the hearing that resulted in the advanced order,” he said. The lawyer said the speaker faces multiple charges all of which relate to abuse of office and corruption. He said that he should be removed from office as required by law. Obiero said the petitioner’s continued presence in office after being charged with graft-related offence and office breaking will compromise key witness and documents, making him difficult to prosecute. He said this will result in irreparable harm to the respondent, the public and state. In his ruling of the application on Tuesday, justice Radido said that it was not in dispute that the petitioner (Okoth) was facing corruption charges before court. The fact was a relevant factor which was not disclosed. "The court therefore vacates the order concerning order staying the decision of the respondents made on February 8," he said. Radido however said other decisions issued on February 15 to be complied with. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)