Residents of terror-prone Boni forest in Lamu have urged the state to sponsor youth from the community in medical courses to enable them work in dispensaries that have been closed for over eight years. The Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Basuba dispensaries in the Boni villages have not been operation for eight year now after they were looted, vandalised and torched by al Shabaab militants during a spate of terror attacks in the region between 2014 and 2017. The situation saw medics who had been operating in the dispensaries flee for dear life never to return. Previous efforts by the county government of Lamu to woo medics back to the dispensaries using lucrative pay packages have not worked as many remain adamant about the security situation in Boni villages. Residents in the affected areas have been left without a definitive healthcare system as only the Kiangwe dispensary on the Lamu-Somalia border remains open to serve over 5,000 people from the Boni forest and its environs. The dispensary is however constantly plagued by shortage of medical supplies and staff. Occasionally, medical camps held by the KDF in the areas have come in handy for the communities who are now grappling with the total collapse of their health system. It is in these regard that the community wants the government to sponsor Boni youth in medical courses and thereafter deploy them to revive the collapse dispensaries of Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Basuba. “We have many youths here who are done with their high school education and passed but haven’t been able to proceed to tertiary institutions because parents can’t afford. We are asking the government to sponsor them to train as medics and then send them back here to work for the community,” Boni elder Mohamed Shuso said. He said the community shouldn’t have to suffer any longer just because the medics are unwilling to return yet a solution could be found within the community. “We understand other people don’t want to come and work here because they feel its unsafe, and that’s why we want our own to work here. We don’t blame those who fled either. We just want the government to remember us,” Shuso said. Boni elder Abbas Guyo said the plan will equally save the county government from having to recruit medics from outside counties, most of who are unwilling to set foot in Boni. “They won't have to worry about the stress because we know many Kenyans don’t want to work here. They will have a ready workforce at any given time if the proposal sails through,” he said. In medical emergencies, Bonis have to ferry patients across the Indian Ocean all the way to the Lamu King Fahad hospital in Lamu island which is over 200km away. Traveling by road is out of question for the Boni community as militants continue to target vehicles using Improvised Explosive Devices. “Water is the only option and its very costly. A trip from here to King Fahad hospital on a speed boat costs not less than Sh30,000. These costs are way beyond what many people here can afford,” Shuso said. Lamu county health executive Anne Gathoni said plans are underway to reopen the dispensaries. She said in the meantime, the health department continues to organise medical outreach camps for the Boni community. Gathoni admitted that the outreaches are sometimes hindered by the insecurity marring the areas. “We have been able to operationalise the Kiangwe dispensary and there is a nurse stationed there. We are working to renovate Mangai dispensary in the next few weeks. We already have a nurse on standby for it,” Gathoni said.   -Edited by SKanyara