Machachari actress Wanjiku Mburu, aka Mama Baha, is working on a film titled 'Mipaka' to share the story of her brother George, who was abducted in Somalia in 2013. George went to the country to work as an engineer never to be seen again. Speaking to Word Is, the mum to-be-said the Mipaka involves Kenya and Somalia. "For the past four years, I have been working on a movie that will go into a series and it's the story of my brother," she said. "It is called 'Mipaka', the feature film and 'Mipaka' the series." Wanjiku is involved in the production. "We are still in pre-production, trying to sum up the script, getting actors onboard and other actors, locations and all." Wanjiku said she hopes to encourage other families going through the same. "Since 2013, we don't know where he is. We just know he was taken in Mogadishu," she said emotionally. "After the first years trying to follow up with the government, just going through the phases, I thought, why not write his story even if I don't know from that side what is going on. There is what we as his immediate family have been going through and other families as well." She said other people have shared their stories plus survivors. "Wondering if he is alive, and what is needed from us so he can come back to us. I have spoken to those who stayed there and were rescued after two to three years, and they say there are a lot of Kenyans there." She said the first year was horrible without even knowing where to go and find help. "This is the only way I know how to communicate to other families to form hope or draw something from the film." Asked if the government has done enough, Wanjiku said the only way to say it's working is by them finding George. "Even if he was jailed, he would be out by now. It's been nine years already," she said. "I only hope they are silent workers. I have hope that he is alive since we have not seen his body. I hope he could have hope and know that we are always thinking about him." To keep his memory alive, Wanjiku got tattoos of her brother. She has three crosses, the short form of George’s name (Jijo), a heartbeat and the words faith, hope and love inked on her wrist, at the back of her neck and left shoulder. "I grew up with boys. Two of my brothers died when I was in Class 6 and Form 4," she said. "I was left with my brother George. We were close and every other day, I would be with him, doing something together."