Kenyan top flight action is set to experience a lull this weekend as the fixtures take a two-week break. The Aaron Ringera-led Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee had planned to host the preliminary stages of the FKF Cup on Saturday and Sunday. However, the tournament will now not be staged owing to a dearth of funds. Over the years, the winners of the local showpiece have traditionally flown the country's flag at the Caf Confederation Cup. Gor Mahia are the reigning FKF Cup champions after seeing off arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the finals held at Nyayo Stadium last year. In a recent interview, FKF Caretaker Committee's leagues and competitions secretary,Ali Amour, confirmed that plans to stage the competition had fallen through. The development has merely served to complicate the already delicate situation for a country that has increasingly found itself at loggerheads with the continental football governing body, Caf, and the world football governing body, Fifa, after the Nick Mwendwa-led FKF administration was ejected from office following a prolonged spat with government. Things got murkier for the nation after Caf locked the women's national team, Harambee Starlets, from the penultimate Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers against Uganda set for February 17. This followed a letter written by the chief executive officer of the ousted FKF administration, Barry Otieno, who sought the withdrawal of the team from the competition on grounds that the government had interfered with the activities of the federation. Caf threw out an appeal made by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and proceeded to give the Crested Cranes of Uganda an automatic berth in the continental showpiece. Kenyan Premier League fixtures resume on February 26, with the encounter between Kariobangi Sharks and Nzoia Sugar at Moi Stadium, Kasarani highlighting the day's action. Kakamega Homeboyz are currently at the summit of the log with 37 points after the round of 18 fixtures. Nairobi City Stars are second with 32 points while Kariobangi Sharks and KCB are third and fourth respectively with 31 points. Gor Mahia wrap up the top five with a point adrift.       