Narok Governor Samuel Tunai has said he will support leaders who will unite all the tribes in the county during the August general election. He made the remarks after presiding at the handing over ceremony of school bus at Shankoe Secondary School on Wednesday. In attendance were MCAs Richard Keter (Ololmasani), Mark Mukut (Keyian), Patrick Sosio (Shankoe), Moses Samante(Ildamat) and school principal George Ogochi. Tunai said that his agenda of uniting all the tribes in the cosmopolitan county has been his dream which has seen the county experience peaceful coexistence. He said without peace the county’s economy will not grow and that leaders with better agenda have to be installed so as to achieve development growth in the county. Tunai said some leaders who are vying for different seats in the polls are out to divide the residents along the tribal lines, warning the electorate against electing them. “As my term ends, I will be available to advice you on the direction to take politically.” He said the previous team has made the county realise big strides in development and peace. Tunai is now serving second and last term. The county boss said all the tribes should be represented in the next election. He said he was ready to lead the aspirants on the lineup to ensure the best leadership is put in place to oversee the interests of the residents. This comes at a time when some of the leaders have expressed concerns over the position of the deputy governor’s position on who should be appointed. Narok North MP Moitalel Ole Kenta said in the past that if he wins the governor seat, he will appoint his deputy from the Maasai community. He said other communities residing in the county have representations from the regions where they come from. However, this did not go down well with Governor Tunai and other leaders, with former Chief Administrative Secretary for Labour Patrick Ole Ntutu coming in defence of those communities. Ntutu, who is also vying for Narok governor, said it was backwardness and that his deputy must come from another tribe. He said since Narok is a cosmopolitan county, it should share seats and resources as per the Constitution. Tunai said county leaders who perpetuating divisive and tribal politics will not be tolerated. He said leaders must not make statements that can disrupt peaceful co-existence between communities.  (edited by Amol Awuor)