The government plans to establish a retirement home for the country’s military veterans. MPs are considering a proposal to establish the Defence Forces Retirement Home to provide residential services. The Defence Council would draw laws to define the persons eligible to reside in the retirement home, the services to be provided, and contributions are to be made by KDF members. The state-backed Military Veterans Bill, 2022, "establishes a framework – regulatory and institutional, for management of military veterans’ affairs." The Bill also establishes the Dependant’s Education Fund as among the benefits to military veterans and their dependants. It provides that retired military personnel would be provided counselling and treatment for stress arising from their work. They would also undergo physical rehabilitation for any condition arising out of military service while the fallen ones would be showered with honours. Military veterans would also access education, training and skills development courses from the state and advice on business. Their dependents would be conferred counselling and treatment for post-traumatic stress, assistance in education placement, employment placement, and entrepreneurship training. “The Defence Council shall facilitate the provision of the benefits through the ministry responsible, or any other government ministry, department, agency, or a private entity,” the bill sponsored by Majority leader Amos Kimunya reads. Those who have served in the KDF, Kenya Army after 1963, and those who served in King’s African Rifles before 1963 would be eligible for the benefits. The veterans, the bill says, are being recognised for their role in the protection of national boundaries and the security and integrity of Kenya. The legislative proposal seeks to provide a formal structure for recognising the sacrifices made by military veterans during service. KDF veterans who suffer from a physical or mental disability that arose from their military service would also be conferred special benefits. Also eligible, as per the proposed law, would be those who have completed service in KDF and those who receive a pension from the armed forces or KDF. Persons who were dishonourably discharged from the military service are not qualified whereas those released on health grounds would be catered for. Those whose medical conditions were self-inflicted or occasioned by the use of narcotic and psychotropic substances would not be considered military veterans. According to the proposed law, the Defence Council shall establish a Dependents Education Fund to provide scholarships for the education of children of members of KDF and military veterans. The fund would also cater for the deceased members of the KDF or deceased military veterans. Dozens of petitions have been filed for Parliament to pass military veterans law to address the needs of the soldiers and their families. In August 2019, a lobby group identified as True North Society lodged a petition at the Senate citing claims there is no law presently that compels the government to care for military veterans. Among their concerns were that those who suffered from past occupational illnesses resulting from official military duties are living in squalor. The group also cited rampant Post traumatic disorder, suicide, homicide, incapacitation, loneliness, poverty, broken marriages, and severed relationships as ex-military men’s daily woes. “To the best of our knowledge, there is no national body tasked with the care and management of military veterans,” the petitioners said. Military personnel do not qualify for pension unless they have served for over 10 years, a situation that leaves their dependents with only gratuity to fend for their needs. Those dismissed on grounds of mental illness have challenges with securing jobs thus unable to support themselves and their families. Cases of disparities in post-service benefits and compensation packages have also been reported, amid concerns, the KDF medical insurance scheme does not cover mental health. The government, therefore, seeks to address the said concerns through an Advisory Committee on Military Veterans. The committee shall comprise a chairperson appointed by the President through a gazette notice – on the recommendation of the defence council, and six other members. The bill creates the post of Director of Military Veterans to be appointed by the Defence Council and serve under the supervision of the Chief of Defence Forces. The chairperson and members of the advisory committee shall hold office for four years, non-renewable. The proposal comes hot on the heels of rules by the ministry which seek to bar KDF widows and widowers from remarrying or cohabiting, or they lose pension benefits.