Heels are seen to be very uncomfortable, but the choice of a suitable heel for a busy or relaxed day is the determinant. You will either develop backache or have the steadiest walking style if you choose your heels well. If you have busy days walking around running errands, then chunky or wedge heels will go well with your day. A busy day sitting in the office will allow you to wear any inch of stiletto heels. Heels can be worn with trousers (suit), knee-length skirt or dress. The longer the dress or skirt, the shorter the heel. STILETTO HEELS This category has both closed and open heels. It also has a peep-toe design. Peep-toe is a type of shoe that exposes two or three toenails. The description of a stiletto heel is sharp; the height, size (specifically, the width), and even the shape. Open stilettos go well with knee-length dresses and skirts. When wearing a pair of jeans and a blazer, one can also add open stilettos. Closed stilettos are multipurpose. Mostly, shouting colours that are pink, orange, or white go well with plain black outfits. BLOCK OR CHUNKY HEELS These are the best heels for a beginner; you will gain stability and not walk clumsily in block heels. Not only are they comfortable but block heels are also suitable for a relaxed function. They bring out a chic and classy look for casual functions. Chunky heels bring out your height without putting strain on your feet, and they give you a steady posture. If you're faced with aching ankles and muscle fatigue every time you wear high heels, then block heels will be a great relief. DECORATIVE HEELS This type of heels made waves mostly in 2021. Most women like it for its comfortable and steady nature. The different types of decor on the shoes allow one to break the monotony of plain heels. There’s a set of such heels that comes with glitters and marbles on the heel. The decor can also be strategically placed on the strap or the peep toe. When choosing outfits to wear with these shoes, it’s important to ensure the decor does not clash with the main outfit. It’s advisable to get a plain-coloured outfit to match these shoes.