Sports Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed is optimistic Harambee Starlets will feature in the African Women's Cup of Nations double-header match against Uganda She said talks with the Confederation of African Football are ongoing and hopes the matter will be resolved soon.  Starlets were scheduled to take on Uganda on February 17th in Kampala with the reverse fixture set for ix days later In Nairobi. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) withdrew Starlets from the qualifiers without the knowledge of the government-appointed Caretaker Committee hence CAF handed the Crested Cranes an automatic slot for the Morocco showpiece in July. "We have a conversation that is ongoing. We are hoping that soon rather than later the confirmation will be made. The girls are being prepared and they will continue with their training," said Amina. "The expectation from all of us is that the team will be on the flight to Uganda as we welcome them for the return leg. We hope the girls will do well and get more opportunities at both continental and global level," she said. Amina further termed the move by FKF chief executive officer Barry Otieno 'treasonable'. "The move to write the letter is treasonable. What happened was extremely unfortunate  and I hope everybody that is involved  s regretting the decision." It will be the second time Starlets will play in AWCON should the decision be reversed and they qualify. Starlets made a maiden appearance in the biannual event in 2016 in Cameroon. Current assistant coach Ann Aluoch was the captain then. And should Caf stick with their ruling, Uganda will become the first team to join hosts Morocco for the final phase of the tournament. The Women's Africa Cup of Nations will bring together 12 of the continent's best teams. Starlets are in a residential training camp at Kasarani under the watchful eyes of new coach Alex Alumira who has crafted a 36-member provisional squad. Foreign-based players are also expected to hit camp this week. Kenya began the AWCON campaign by demolishing South Sudan's Bright Starlets 15-1 on aggregate. 