Eight people among them two minors were killed in a banditry attack at Siromet grazing fields in Chesongoch along the West Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border. Rift Valley regional commissioner Mohamed Maalim said the minors who died in the 4:00pm cattle rustling incident on Saturday were among herders who crossed Kerio Valley in search of pasture for their animals. He said the youngsters were aged between 12 and 15 years, adding that it was not clear whether they were armed during the gunfight. The administrator said although one of the slain child was a pupil at Adich Primary School, he was among the herders when the clash occurred. "The boy was not attacked in school or at home as is being portrayed in a section of the media," he said. Most residents, including women and children as young as 10 years in the troubled areas of North Rift, are armed. This is despite government efforts to mop-up arms in the region. On Sunday, Maalim said three people were also injured in the attack and are recuperating in different hospitals in the region. "Those in hospital are recuperating under tight police security and would be charged for participating in the raid and causing a breach of peace and being in illegal possession of guns," he said. The administrator further said the survivors would also help with the investigation to bring their accomplices to book. He said the government ordered people with illegals arms in the affected areas of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Baringo, Samburu and Laikipa to surrender illegal arms in their possession. "On January 30 during a meeting at Tot in Elgeyo Marakwet, I reminded the communities here to surrender illegal arms in accordance with the government directive and we want to find out if those injured are among people who have refused to comply," he said. Maalim urged hospitals to always report people seeking treatment for gunshot wounds. He said the headers came from Kipnai and Loiwat in Tiaty West and crossed Kerio Valley with their animals in search of pasture in Marakwet East when they were attacked. "An unknown number of livestock was stolen and we are urging those who lost their animals in the raid to report it at Kolowa police station for the recovery process to commence," Maalim said. He said his office, in collaboration with the security teams on the ground led by the county commissioners county police commanders, are planning to track the livestock and ensure that all the stolen animals were recovered. (edited by Amol Awuor)