The government plans to recruit 3,000 trainers to address the current shortage in TVET institutions. The number of technical and vocational education and training institutions increased from 52 in 2013 to 238 in 2021. Out of these, 192 are operational and 46 are nearing completion. Vocational and Technical Training PS Margaret Mwakima said apart from equipping institutions, the Ministry of Education is committed to providing human and capital resources to ensure smooth operations. She said the government is modernising and expanding TVETs to meet human resource needs as well as growing industrial needs. Mwakima said enrolment has increased from 55,945 in 2013 to 249,316 in 2021. She attributed this to the Sh10.3 billion capitation government grants and Sh11.1 billion Helb loans given to TVET trainees. Additionally, a conditional grant of Sh2 billion is given to vocational training centres every financial year. Mwakima said with these investments, national polytechnics, technical training institutes, and technical and vocational colleges should produce much-needed skilled human labour that meets industry requirements. She spoke on Wednesday during the ninth graduation ceremony at Kisumu National Polytechnic. Some 3,781 trainees graduated. “The best reward you [graduands] can give them [parents and guardians] is to offer exemplary service to the industry and society in the various fields in which you have been trained,” Mwakima said. Globally, she said, technical skills have become critical in achieving rapid economic growth, and social and technological improvements. The PS said there is a need to train a critical mass of technologists, technicians and artisans to achieve socioeconomic growth. “TVET institutions are expected to design demand-driven programmes to bridge identified skills gaps in the dynamic industry,” Mwakima said. She said Kisumu National Polytechnic has been collaborating with the private sector at various levels to increase its quality and relevance through apprenticeships, internships and on-the-job training. “TVET institutions need to establish cordial and mutual relationships with industry players. This will help Competence-Based Education and Training courses to be deeply rooted and get more recognition,” Mwakima said. She said the number of trainees graduating from TVET institutions has been increasing steadily. “I note with gratification that KNP is releasing 3,781 graduates in diverse disciplines that are necessary for sustainable development, achievement of the Big 4 Agenda and Kenya Vision 2030,” Mwakima said. She said TVET institutions should ensure that courses offered equip trainees with entrepreneurial skills to establish their own businesses on completion. “This will, in no doubt, go a long way in creating employment opportunities in line with the Big 4 agenda,” Mwakima said. “Quality training is a mirage without proper equipment and personnel. We want TVET institutions to provide an industrial level experience for students that match industry requirements.” Edited by A.N