Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu has lost three county executive members following their resignation last week from City Hall. Charles Kerich – Lands and Housing, Janet Ouko – Education and Vesca Kangogo - Devolution  all resigned last week to seek elective seats in the forthcoming general elections. February 9, 2022, was meant to be the deadline for resignation for all public servants interested to contest in the elections. Kerich, who has already unveiled his manifesto, is eyeing the Bomet Central parliamentary seat on Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance ( UDA) party. Still under UDA, Kangogo is also going for the Uasin Gishu governor seat and Ouko is eyeing Kasarani parliamentary seat in Nairobi. Governor Kananu yesterday evening held a farewell dinner to thank the three for their exemplary services at the county. "I want to sincerely thank you for your commitment, diligence and exemplary services to not only my Government but to Nairobians in the respective portfolios that you previously held. I wish you all the best and God's grace as you pursue your political ambitions," she said. In attendance were other county officials including Allan Igambi (Finance), Larry Wambua (Environment), Winnie Gathagu (Trade), Lucia Mulwa (Agriculture), Mohamed Dagane (Roads), Hiten Majevdia (Health) and Newton Munene (ICT& eGovernment). County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka was also in attendance, Mutunga Mutungi(Chief of Staff),  Chief Officers; SG Mwangi (Lands), Dr Mark Leleruk (Security and Compliance) and the Governors advisers; Peter Gacheru, Geoffery Gituku and Joseph Kiarie graced the event. The three were appointed in November after being vetted by the County Assembly to various positions. Kerich was sworn in as the CEC for ICT and was later moved to the lands department and also acted in the Health docket. He also served in the finance docket and even read the Nairobi City County 2018 and 2019 budget. In 2019, former Governor Mike Sonko made him a 'super executive', appointing him to coordinate all county programmes and projects and supervise all sectors. Kagongo, on the other hand, has also served in health, finance and devolution dockets while Janet Ouko has only served in the education department. In January 2019, Ouko resigned, saying she could not continue to work in an environment filled with threats, intimidation and blackmail. However, she made a come back early last year and was reinstated to the education docket.