ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya has urged party officials to embrace everybody to help strengthen the party behind Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. He said the officials should be neutral and desist from remarks of "perceived preferred candidates" in order to consolidate more votes for Raila. Oparanya spoke during ODM Kisumu delegates’ convention at Tom Mboya Labour College on Monday, where delegates endorsed Governor Anyang Nyong'o for re-election. "I urge leaders to embrace those who come to the party, we need a strong party. If you want Raila to be the fifth president, we need everybody in the party," he said. Oparanya, who is the Kakamega governor, said those claiming to be preferred candidates ahead of the April nominations were scaring away other aspirants, which was unhealthy for unity and growth of the party. The governor, said ODM was founded on democracy which Raila stands for and will strive to conduct free, fair and credible nominations to avoid backslash. “We will subject all aspirants to nominations and nobody will be given a direct ticket as being peddled by some people,” he said. Present at the event were Kisii governor James Ongwae, national ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire, who is eying Nyamira governor seat and Siaya deputy governor James Okumbe. MPs Olago Aluoch (Kisumu West), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central), James Nyikal (Seme), Aduma Owuor (Nyakach) and nominated senator Rose Nyamunga also attended. Oparanya said party officials propagating the "the perceived line up" are Raila’s enemies as they jeopardise unity of voters for his candidature. He, however, distanced himself from the endorsement of Nyong’o for re-election by the delegates. Oparanya said he will support Nyong’o after the party nomination exercise. “We are known for championing democracy and will ensure every member is given the right to participate in free, fair and transparent elections,” he added. The deputy leader told off party officials and aspirants who have been claiming that they have already secured tickets ahead of the elections, terming them as baseless and unfounded. “If you’ve been given a mandate then you must be impartial and stop reckless statements which will cause animosity among party members and supporters,” Oparanya said. There have been cases of perceived lineups reported in Nyanza, especially Kisumu, Siaya, Migori and Homa Bay counties. In Western, Oparanya said the issue of nominations has been a thorn in the flesh as it has portrayed ODM in a bad light.. "The issue of party nominations has given us a bad name because of our behaviour. People are running away in Western to other parties. This can be prevented by conducting proper nominations," he said. He added that the focus should be on strengthening the party and solidifying Raila's support base as he seeks to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Oparanya said most party members have been complaining of what they termed as shambolic nominations. He said has tried many times to have Olago rejoin the party but he has been reluctant due to nominations issues. "Party officials should learn to listen to the views of every member and not lean towards particular candidates," the deputy party boss said. Oparanya said they need everybody on board for Raila to clinch the presidency as he cannot do it single-handedly but through unity and consolidating his backyards. He said only delegates will be allowed to participate in the nominations of candidates for various elective positions. "We are currently registering members and those who seek to be listed should do so in respective party offices. Registration will be closed by the end of March," he said. The deputy party leader said the party was headed for the national delegates conference where they will decide whether the party will form a coalition with like-minded parties such as Jubilee ahead of the polls. He said forming coalitions was the best way to go as winning the presidency requires a collective responsibility. Oparanya slammed Deputy President William Ruto and his UDA brigade for claiming that Raila was Uhuru's project, saying that he has contested for presidency four times and has never been a project. "He has won and been rigged out," he added. The Kakamega governor said Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula should stop hoodwinking Kenyans and tell them their policies. He also defended Uhuru saying as a citizen he has the democratic right to vote for whoever he wants to succeed him when he retires. "President Uhuru is a citizen of this country and nobody should decide for him whom to vote for. He has the right to back any candidate of his choice," Oparanya said. He said Ruto and his team should spare Kenyans of their cheap lies and should instead prepare to be in the opposition. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)