At least 5,000 residents of Mokowe in Lamu West are facing an acute water shortage after all water sources in the areas turned saline and unusable. The residents are unable to bath their dead relatives as required by Islamic faith due to a shortage of fresh water that has rocked the town over the years. Women are also complaining that they cannot get fresh water to shower before and after sex. Families are now forced to trek to Hindi town, close to 20km away in search of fresh water for domestic consumption and also for their animals. The situation has affected religious activities as the residents, a majority of whom are Muslims, have been forced to use salty water to bathe their dead relatives instead of the required clean and fresh water. “When someone dies according to the Islamic faith, they have to be bathed with clean water," Mohamed Athman, a cleric, said. "But now we have found ourselves with no fresh water and now have to use salty water from the ocean, which is against the rights of the deceased." A A, a resident, said having intercourse with their husbands has become tall order for many women as they have no bathing water. “We have gone for weeks without [sex] and we are afraid our men might start looking out there. But it’s not deliberate as the act needs hygiene both before and after. Without water we are at a loss as we cannot use salty water down there,” A A added. Simple domestic chores like cooking and cleaning are now a luxury due to the water scarcity. “Any little water we get, we drink. Cooking is not really happening for many, not to mention sanitation like bathing. We can’t do it with saline water,” Katana Mussa, a Mokowe elder, said. Residents have accused Lamu government of failing to get permanent solution to the water shortage challenge that has affected Mokowe, one of the oldest towns in the region, for years. Despite efforts over the years by well-wishers and donors to sink boreholes and wells in the area, most have over time turned salty. The residents want the soil in the areas tested to ascertain why most fresh water sources eventually turn salty, with a view to finding a long-term solution. “We have had NGOs and donors come and sink wells and boreholes here but for some reason, these water sources have gone saline after a short period," Abbas Mwamkuya, a resident, said. "We believe it has to do with the soil or the fact that the area is in close proximity to the ocean. This needs science to solve.” Over the years, Mokowe residents have held demos over the situation but nothing seems to have changed as the persistent water scarcity continues. Residents are sometimes forced to travel to Lamu Island and purchase fresh water before transporting it on boats back to Mokowe on the mainland. In his response, Lamu Water and Sewerage Company managing director Paul Wainaina admitted to the Mokowe water situation but said it was being looked into. “Mokowe’s 30-year-old infrastructure for supplying water are worn out and dilapidated. We are working to improve them so that everyone is now served with freshwater,” Wainaina said. He said it is common knowledge that Mokowe has always relied on water from Hindi and water vendors. “We started supplying fresh water to Mokowe residents about five months ago. We condemned the saline boreholes and now we have freshwater wells,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)