Nairobi Gubernatorial aspirant Richard Ngatia will only renounce from his position at the KNCCI once he is elected as the city ‘s fourth governor. Ngatia is the current president of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI). On Tuesday, he explained to the Star that KNCCI has guidelines regarding people seeking to join politics and run for elective positions which gives him a leeway until he is sworn into office. “There is a memorandum of understanding at the chambers where one if interested in politics is free to join but should resign from the position before being sworn in,” Ngatia said. The KNCCI boss joins a list of other aspirants including; Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and Businesswoman Agnes Kagure who are all aspiring to be Nairobi’s fourth governor. The incumbent Ann Kananu, has also vowed to defend the seat in the forthcoming polls. Last month, Ngatia told off his critics over his multinational company and its supply to KEMSA. He is the Managing Director and CEO of Megascope Healthcare Limited, a major corporate player in the healthcare industry in Kenya . He said his critics were playing politics with Kenyans lives' by dragging his company, Megascope into none issues. "It pains me that some people are playing politics with the lives of Kenyans. Megascope (his company) is a Multinational company operating in over 15 countries. We provide sophisticated medical equipment and train our health workers on how to use them,” Ngatia said. In September 2020, a damning report by the Senate revealed that Megascope Healthcare Ltd was at the centre of the Sh63 billion medical kits scandal that senators claimed was conceived like a criminal enterprise and got over Sh1 billion contracts for Covid-19 medical supplies. However, when he appeared before a parliamentary committee, Ngatia warned that the current trend of painting private businesses as corrupt was in bad light as it scared away investors and at the same time resulted to their downfall. Megascope is a key provider for the healthcare equipment leasing scheme for County Governments in Kenya. The company through Managed Equipment Services supplied, installed, trained, commissioned and is providing planned preventive maintenance. Megascope is also maintaining a 98 per cent uptime of theatre equipment in 219 operating rooms of 115 government hospitals. In his late 40s, Ngatia is a guru in the business world. He is the chairman International Conference on Great Lakes Region – Private Sector Forum -ICGLR- PSF, deputy patron Kenya National federation of Jua Kali association, board member East Africa chamber of commerce, Industry and Agriculture and also Trustee PERAK. The business tycoon is expected to launch his candidature for Nairobi’s top seat after the Jubilee Party's National Delegates Convention to be held  later this month. Edited by B. Oruta