The Garissa government has launched a rangeland management programme that will be controlled by the communities. Agriculture executive Mohamed Shale said the programme dubbed Accelerated Institutional, Food System and Development is in partnership with International Livestock Research Institute. The executive spoke on Wednesday when he officially opened a participatory rangeland management workshop at a Garissa hotel. Shale said the programme aims at driving profitability in livestock production in Garissa. The objective of the training is to assist the county personnel to develop the knowledge and skills for various technologies, innovations and management practices in participatory rangeland managements. The executive said the county is committed to ensure success of the programme. "In the past, our communities were organised and had grazing patterns that ensured enough pasture and water for livestock. We lost this glory after deviating from the trend,” Shale said. He said a participatory range management and creation of guiding principles for community rangeland governance will be used as necessary tools towards the success of the programme. The executive said the political leadership, women, youth and opinion leaders will also be educated on the reactivation of the programme. “We want to bring our leaders on board. They play a crucial role in mobilisation of the community which guarantees the success of such a crucial programme,” he said. Shale said awareness of the programme will be cascaded down to ward levels. Participatory Rangeland Management has been developed as means for policy makers and change agents from governmental and non-governmental organisations to support communities to manage their rangelands. PRM involves planning and decision making at different levels. This approach typically works through a community organisation made up of representatives within a specified geographical area or rangeland unit. Present were AIFSP regional coordinator Aden Abdi, county programme coordinator  Abubakar Siraji and deputy director for livestock Siyat Onle. Others were subcounty livestock production officers, officials from department of Environment, Kefri and Mercy Corps. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)