Four victims of the Limuru fire tragedy are seeking compensation following the incident that left some incapacitated. The four are part of more than 11 victims of a gas tanker explosion on February 13. They are Boniface Nabiswa,27, Boniface Wafula, 27, Joseph Muchai, 24, and Oscar Muturo, 29. The victims recorded their statements with Limuru police on Tuesday. They said they haven’t received any information on the progress of the investigations. They also said no one has followed up on their treatment and bills. “We went to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital after we were given first aid at the local Solo’s dispensary in Kamirithu. The doctors however said we cannot be admitted without money to cater for our bills,” Nabiswa said. He said the four decided to file a report with police to see whether they can get any help from the relevant company. “We want to be compensated and treated because we have been dressing our wounds in the house,” Nabiswa said. The accident which happened at Mutarakwa village in Limuru along the Nairobi-Mai Mahiu Road left more than eight people with burns. Seven cars among them three lorries and four salon cars were also razed down. Four victims are still admitted at the  Kenyatta National Hospital. A source told the Star they are recuperating and responding well to medication though they had been taken there by well-wishers in critical condition. Limuru OCPD Antony Gitonga said investigations have commenced. "We handed over the file to the DCIO who is compiling statements of the victims who so far are 11 people. We shall then hand over the report to ODPP for direction," he said. He said so many people were affected and a probe is necessary to reveal who to accuse for the damage. Nabiswa said he, Muturo and Wafula are the breadwinners and work at Mutarakwa. Nabiswa, a father of three kids aged below 10, said they had received a phone call from their employer, saying they were required to finish a job at his construction site that Sunday morning. “I woke up early and told my wife I needed to go to work. She requested I seek the day off that Sunday but it was urgent. My brother had also requested that I help him relocate but I had to decline,” he said. Nabiswa said as they went down the slope, they saw smoke in the air and suddenly a fire broke snaking towards them. "We turned and started running for our lives. However, it caught our backs and we fell to the ground. That’s how we got the burns," he said. Wafula, a father of three year old twins said they woke up at Solo’s dispensary where they had been rushed by well-wishers. They were given first aid alongside other victims and later referred to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital. “But in Kiambu, we were only able to pay for the first treatment. We were to be admitted at a cost of Sh2,000 each for the bed only and later foot for the bill, but we had no money,” he said. Wafula said the doctors sent them away saying they must commit to pay. The Star also identified other victims including 39-year- old Moses Njihia and Joseph Gakua, who are nursing wounds at home. A victim by the name Wanyoike said he had woken up at 10am, prepared himself and took his breakfast before leaving for Limuru where he works in an electronic shop. He bid goodbye to his 56-year-old mother Susan Wamaitha from his Tiekunu home, about 10kms from the scene of the accident. “As I approached Mutarakwa, I heard a loud bang as if something had exploded. I walked on and as I drew nearer, I saw a crowd of people. I then saw a cloud-like smoke coming towards me followed by fire," he said. Wanyoike said he started running back but was burnt at the back, on his head, ears and legs. “I have been receiving treatment at St Charles Lwanga Catholic Dispensary at Kamirithu. I am not able to walk to work. My mother has been forced to take care of me," he said. Another victim, Kinyanjui, a father of two, had woken up to start his door-to-door campaigns when he heard that there was a gas explosion at Mutarakwa, so he rushed to the scene. He said one of the drivers of a trailer, tried to rescue his vehicle but could not get the truck from the scene. He got stuck inside. “I rushed to the driver’s door and pulled him out. However, fire caught up with us as we ran away and we both sustained serious burns at the back of our heads, arms and legs,” Kinyanjui said. He said he has been attending his dressing at Tigoni Hospital. “My campaigns are now being spearheaded by my supporters. I urge the LPG company to take up the matter and compensate the victims,” Kinyanjui said. The crane and the trailer that the gas company had brought to rescue the lorry transporting the gas were among the cars that were razed down. The crane is estimated to cost about Sh20 million. Trees and crops among them maize and banana plantations were also destroyed during the incident that occurred between 9am and 12pm. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)