Some aspirants in Migori have started shopping for alternative parties amid fears they might lose out during ODM nominations. ODM is the most popular party in Nyanza region and is the driving force behind Azimio la Umoja. Talk of joint nominations with other Azimio parties has sent jitters among aspirants. Some told the Star they are afraid of a chaotic process as the party has not come out clearly on the process that will be used to pick candidates. They said they are not sure whether it will be through consensus, delegates, members, general voting or hand-picking. “I have taken a wait and see attitude. I'm an ODM life member but until the party comes out clear on what nomination process will be used or if they will zone off the region for other Azimio la Umoja parties I will not commit,” businessman and governor aspirant Robert Okong’o said. He said he will make a decision when the rules are clear. Businessman Philip Mwabe said confusion on which mode will be used for nominations and fears that some aspirants have an upper hand has set contenders on edge. “There was a time rumours that ODM was to use delegates system were rife and several lists were made, now we hear of other modes. If the process will be free and fair we will take faith in the party,” Mwabe said. The governor seat has attracted several aspirants including Senator Ochillo Ayacko, Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo, former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno and former Migori MP John Pesa. “Migori is an ODM zone and we don’t recognise other parties as we will ensure all seats are orange under six-piece voting pattern,” Ayacko said last week during Azimio Mtaani rally. The ODM party will have a hard time to ensure there is no nomination fallout in the county as Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been wooing aspirants to his People Democratic Party (PDP), while Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA has been on charm offensive. In Suna East, the MP race where incumbent Junet Mohamed holds a powerful position in the party, two aspirants–Samuel Amimo and Bruno Liende–have said they have hope for free nominations. “We are ODM life members and we believe the party will have a free and fair nominations process which we will take part in,” Amimo said. Former Migori Lands executive Elijah Odhiambo has already bolted out of the party. Odhiambo said instead of “wasting energy on nominations with a history of being shambolic, I will engage directly with people in Suna East for August 9 General Election and meet whoever the party will pick as candidate, which is obvious.” Migori senator aspirant Isaac Aluochier said he will use Justice and Freedom Party after he resigned from ODM party and he is building his campaign team already. But Migori ODM chairman Philip Makabong’o insisted the party will have a free and fair nomination and aspirants claiming they have ODM certificates will face disciplinary action. “Fear that we already have preferred aspirants as candidates in the general elections is unfounded,” Makabong’o said. Makabong’o said in each of 40 wards in Migori they will have clusters of only three polling centres for nominations for only registered members to vote. “We are aware some regions have complained of locality of the polling centres, we are working with the National Elections Board to ensure we have amicable cluster centres ahead of the exercise which will be free and fair,” Makabong’o said. Edited by A.N