Georgia, Kenya and Zimbabwe will take part in South Africa’s domestic Currie Cup tournament from April, offering an opportunity for the more regular competition ahead of next year’s Rugby World Cup, SA Rugby said on Monday. The three countries are in contention for a place at next year’s tournament in France and have been added to the participants in the second tier of the competition between April and June. Kenya and Zimbabwe are both playing in the last phase of African World Cup qualifiers in July while Georgia could have their qualification wrapped up next month as they look to top the Rugby Europe Championship for a second successive year. In the Currie Cup First Division, the trio of international participants will join defending champions Leopards along with Griffons, South Western Districts, Boland, Eastern Province, Border, and the Valke over a single round of matches, with the final scheduled in June. South Africa’s top domestic teams are playing in the United Rugby Championship, against Irish, Italian, Scottish and Welsh opposition, as well as in the Currie Cup Premier Division. The Currie Cup final is scheduled for June 25, a week after the URC final. Elsewhere, Wales have been putting Taulupe Faletau through his paces at the start of the week to see whether the British & Irish Lion is ready to play against England in the Six Nations on Saturday, assistant coach Neil Jenkins said on Tuesday. The 31-year-old loose forward has played only twice for Bath since an ankle injury sustained after returning from the mid-year tour of South Africa. “Toby came in yesterday. He’s been doing work in the last six weeks to get himself right to play. We know him well and we’ll see how he is today,” Jenkins told a virtual news conference. “We’ll have a bit more about us today in training and we’ll see where he’s at. It’s just whether we feel his condition is right to go. “He’s played the two (games) for Bath which is important from our perspective. That’s massive that’s he’s played 60 minutes and 80 minutes. “But test match rugby is a different animal and we’ll assess whether he’s right or not,” he added.