Police are looking for an unknown suspect who killed a 55-year-old woman from Kandundu area near Murang’a town on Sunday night. The suspect is said to have accessed Emma Wanjiru’s unlocked house at around 10pm, identifying himself as a police officer. Wanjiru’s son, Joseph Wanyoike, said his mother had spent the entire day at ACK St James Cathedral, where she was a chef at Bishop Timothy Gichere’s home, and was preparing to go to bed when the intruder got into their house. Wanyoike said he only knew about the intrusion when the strange man entered his bedroom pointing a torch at his face, making it impossible to identify him. The man then hit him on the head with a blunt object and he became unconscious. When he regained consciousness an hour later, he went to check on his mother who he had left in the sitting room only to find her lying on the floor. Wanyoike said after finding she had vomited, he called neighbours who helped take her to Murang’a County Referral Hospital. His mother passed away on Monday morning while receiving treatment. His uncle, Amos Kanyoro, said she was a peaceful and humble person with no history of conflict with anyone, and that the incident has left them in shock. “We received this information in the morning and only found her in the hospital before we were told that she had died,” he said. Kanyoro appealed to the police to investigate and establish who committed the heinous offence and why. “We want justice for my sister and we want the suspects brought to book,” he added. Neighbours said the area has been experiencing petty theft which has seen their clothes stolen from their clothing lines, as well as chickens and other household items. Francis Muturi said despite the presence of alarms and the many screams that rent the air on Sunday night, security agents did not get to the scene until Monday morning. But county police commander Donatha Kiplangat said Directorate of Criminal Investigation detectives were deployed to the scene immediately after they received the report and that they are investigating the matter. (edited by Amol Awuor)