What do you do when you want to sell your household furniture, electronics or kitchen appliances? You will probably end up at the local second-hand goods dealer, only to realise your prized possessions are not as valuable as you thought. You expected to get Sh20,000 for your flat-screen TV but you are told it’s worth just Sh10,000. Hoping to sell your old microwave to raise money for a new one? Turns out your brand of choice is not popular with everybody else, and that brings down the price you get for it. Want to sell your DVD player because you now watch movies online? You probably think you'll get Sh3,000 to put into your kitchen budget. Guess what, there are very few buyers for used DVD players. You’ll be lucky to get Sh1,000 for it. Welcome to the world of dealers in second-hand household goods. They are in almost every residential area these days with big signs reading, “We Buy and Sell Household Goods!” It’s one business where both sellers and buyers come out feeling cheated. George Njoroge, the owner of one such shop, says he has to buy the goods at low prices to remain profitable. “The people who come here shopping for used goods are looking for cheap things,” Njoroge explains. “I buy low so I can make a profit when I sell the items,” he says, adding that profit margins are small. Many of the used goods dealers double up as shylocks. Some do it secretly, but others openly advertise their lending services with signs reading, “Loans on Household Goods,” and “Instant Cash.” People wanting to borrow money take their property as security, which is returned after the loan is paid back with interest, but the loans offered are much lower than the value of the goods. An item worth Sh10,000 might fetch a loan of only Sh2,000. Sam Otieno used to deal in used goods and money lending. He says he was not particularly worried about people not paying back the loans. He could sell the items they gave as security and make more money than if they fully paid back the loan. Otieno had to close his business before last Christmas after thieves stole everything one night. “I suspect the burglary was organised by one of my customers because no other shop in that building was broken into,” Otieno says. There's no doubt that the business of used household goods has gained a bad reputation. The business, however, serves a useful function in society by connecting sellers looking for money with buyers shopping for cheap items. This explains why such businesses are common in the low-income residential areas of our towns. One can never really be sure of the quality of items when buying used household goods. Newton Mwaita, a plumber, says he once bought a good looking second-hand sofa set because the price was so good. “I regretted taking it home. The sofa set was infested with bed bugs!” Mwaita says.