Marsabit county commissioner Paul Rotich on Wednesday flagged off consignments of relief food to cushion vulnerable families against drought. At least 32,000 vulnerable families across the county will benefit from the food supplies. Each beneficiary will receive 10kgs of rice, 7kgs of beans and fortified wheat. Deputy county commissioners and chiefs were assigned to map out needy households in the four subcounties. Rotich instructed the local administrators to observe strict accountability so that deserving families receive the food rations. The county commissioner spoke at Parkishon in Saku subcounty when he disbursed the relief food. "This food is for the most vulnerable and no deserving families shall be left out including those with special needs and families with extreme poverty," he said. The administrator said the countywide programme is one of the many interventions to alleviate the effects of drought. He said drought has left many households struggling to put food on the table. "The government aims to help meet the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable population with food aid," he said. Local NGOs including NDMA are also providing assistance through cash transfer programmes to nearly 30,000 vulnerable people in the county. While appreciating the assistance provided by county government, NGOs and development partners, he appealed for more support. Resident Galwes Gulamo welcomed the support saying they were in need of help as they have received no rainfall in four consecutive seasons. Rotich also launched mass Covid-19 vaccination drive across the county. He said the accelerated vaccine exercise targets to have at least 30 per cent of the residents vaccinated in all the four subcounties. The administrator urged residents to get vaccinated saying the government means well for its citizens. He urged residents to ignore vaccine propaganda and come out in large numbers to be vaccinated. Rotich also urged Marsabit residents to continue adhering to MoH measures aimed at containing Covid-19 spread. Health executive Dr Jama Wolde said the county had vaccinated about 6,700 residents representing 6.7 per cent of the population. He expressed concern on the low uptake and urged members of the public to take the jabs seriously and boost their immunity. Wolde said all the four subcounties had been placed on a 10-day Rapid Results Initiative to vaccinate residents. He advised residents to continue adhering to the laid down prevention measures which include proper wearing of mask, washing of hands and observe social distance. He added that the health team will visit all social gatherings and villages to educate residents on the importance of being vaccinated. Since the outbreak, the county has lost eight people to the disease. Deputy county commissioners in Saku have since been given targets in order to boost the numbers of those vaccinated. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)