The family of the former President Mwai Kibaki will support Joseph Kiragu for Othaya MP in the August 9 election. Kiragu recently resigned from Kenyatta National Hospital to vie for the seat currently held by Gichuki Mugambi who in 2017 floored MP Mary Wambui. Speaking during Azimio la Umoja caravan on Sunday in Nyeri county, Laikipia Governor Nderitu Muriithi accompanied the aspirant in the area to drum support for his candidature. Muriithi, who is the PNU leader, said that he has trust that the people of Othaya will support Kiragu as Othaya MP on PNU ticket as well as Raila Odinga as presidential candidate for Azimio la Umoja. He said Raila is the best candidate to take on from President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We are determined to take this country to the next level through Azimio la Umoja,” he said. They visited Karatina, Karogoto, Ichamara, Mukurweini, Maganjo, Gakindu, Kagere, Gachatha, Wamagana, Gaikanja and Nyeri town. Muriithi has been instrumental in leading the presidential campaign for the ODM boss. He was accompanied by David Kamau (national chairman), Peter Munyiri (former Family Bank CEO) and a host of aspirants. Speaking in Othaya, Kiragu said that he will not peg his expected victory on President Kibaki’s support and neither will he ride on wealth or his prominence in the constituency. He said if elected MP, he would be following the advice of the constituents. Kiragu said that women and the youth needed more empowerment through financial support to start income-generating projects. He promised his electorate to work hard to transform the lives of the people in his community. “I have been holding various meetings with my people and I know what they want and once they give me an opportunity I will deliver to the promises that I will pledge,” he said. He will face off with Gichuki Mugambi (incumbent), Kagwe Muchiri (TND candidate), Ngunjiri wa Macani and Wanyanga Cecelia, among others. During the recent interview with the Star, Nyeri gubernatorial aspirant and economist Peter Munyiri said that PNU stands among the respected parties in Kenya. He said that his decision to vie on the party ticket is due to its strong ideologies and respect that it commands due to its founder Mwai Kibaki. Munyiri said people to elect leaders based on the merit, but not the popularity of the party. PNU is expected to hold a National Delegates Conference at Bomas of Kenya to discuss and ratify coalition buildings and party working relationship with other like-minded political parties ahead of the August polls. (edited by Amol Awuor)