The famous soccer fan Isaac Juma who was hacked to death over land dispute will be buried on Saturday. Juma, 55, was hacked to death at his Ebuyenjere village home in Mumias West Subcounty over a long standing land dispute on January 27. His family has accused close relatives of being involved in the murder. The county government of Kakamega on Thursday announced it would settle the funeral expenses. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Thursday said his government will meet the funeral expenses and clear fees for three of the deceased’s children in high school. "We will support the family to settle funeral expenses and fees for his children," Oparanya said. The funeral committee has come up with a Sh1.5 million budget for the Juma’s send off. The burial is set for February 12. Oparanya made the announcement in his office after meeting family members of the football fan led by his wife Farida Juma who briefed him on burial arrangements. The governor said Juma was a football fan with a big following and that was why he wanted to give him a befitting send off. "We want to bury Juma like a real hero. He had a big following drawn from all over the country. I have known Juma for long since I was an official for AFC Leopards. He could travel far places to cheer his team," he said. Oparanya said the county government will also clear fee balances for three of Juma’s children in secondary schools. One is in Form 3 at Likoni Mixed Secondary School while the other two are in Form 1 and 3 at Iyabo and Ikhonje secondary schools respectively in Mumias west. Juma is survived by two widows and 12 children. The governor said ODM leader Raila Odinga and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui will attend the funeral. Juma was said to have been murdered by people known to his family who raided his home at around 9am and slashed him to death over a land dispute. The attackers did not steal anything from the deceased or his home. Juma's widow Farida said her husband was "slaughtered like a cow" and accused his relatives of the murder. "He screamed for help upon seeing the men. When I heard the commotion, I woke up swiftly only to find my husband in the hands of the attackers," she said. "One was cutting his neck like someone who is slaughtering a cow. When he saw me, they ran away," she said. Police have so far arrested two suspects in connection with the incident. Juma was a veteran supporter of the national soccer team, Harambee Stars, and was also a fan of local league AFC Leopards. He often painted his body and wrote slogans on it. He was a fixture at many matches. He was among tens of fans who flew to Cape Verde to cheer the national team in Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers in Praia in November 2015. Oparanya regretted the death of Juma and called on investigative agencies to expedite investigations into his murder and apprehend all those involved in the incident. 