Farmer groups supported by the county government of Kirinyaga to make dairy feeds have expanded to other animal feeds to meet rising demand. Two of the groups are now manufacturing poultry feeds so as to tap into the growing market. Initially, the groups had been supported with feed mixers and single phase motor machines for manufacturing dairy feeds but have re-invested their income to expand production. The county government has also supported many farmers to venture into poultry and the groups hope to tap into the rising demand for chicken feeds. One of the groups, Wiukirie Self Help Group, is expanding from its dairy feeds to poultry feeds. Chairperson Jane Muthoni said the group, which started its operation in 2020, has now mastered the art of making feeds and it is expanding its share of the market. “We have expanded our operations to making of poultry feeds. Our market for dairy feeds has grown and we plan to increase production,” she said. Speaking on Friday, Muthoni said demand for feeds manufactured by the group has been on a steady rise due to the high quality of the feeds. “We are selling the feeds to almost every village in Kirinyaga, what we have done is to remain consistent with our high quality mark because we have realised the market is flooded with poor quality animal feeds which are over-priced,” she added. Paul Wanjohi, the chairman of Kabaru Dairy Feeds, said that members of the group have started reaping benefits of the economic empowerment program launched by Governor Anne Waiguru, which has seen them earn money. “We have not only increased our own milk production, but we have helped farmers reduce the cost of dairy farming. Because we manufacture the feeds in the village, the farmers do not incur the cost of transport,” he said. Paul Muthii, another member of the Kabaru group, said that for many years he had been grappling with the problem of low milk production since feeds bought from other commercial dealers had compromised quality, a challenge that made them aspire to manufacture their own feeds. “If it were not for  the county government, we would not be here. This is a success story, I never thought as a group we could reach here because the equipments are too costly and beyond our reach,” Muthii said. Susan Mithamo on her part noted  that since she started feeding her livestock with products manufactured by Kabaru Dairy Feeds, her daily milk production had risen from four to six litres. “We are re-investing all the income we are getting from selling livestock feeds back to the projects, we are expanding big to capture the market because the demand for quality feeds and milk is so huge,” she pointed out. The initiative is one of Governor Waiguru’s Wezesha Kirinyaga economic empowerment program that is transforming lives of the local community through various agriculture value chain projects. The governor says four groups in each of the 20 wards are being supported to venture into animal feeds manufacturing. She said the support to dairy farmers has been extended to the upgrading of dairy cattle breeds through provision of quality Artificial Insemination services. “We are expanding the AI services from the initial 50,000 cows to another 50,000  this year. This will ensure that as we give the animals quality feeds, we also have quality breeds. The county aims at increasing milk production from the current average of five litres per cow per day to 12 litres per cow per day,” she added. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)