Companies selling motorbikes in Machakos have been cautioned against involvement in boda boda operators' killings and motorcycles theft. Athi River deputy county commissioner Charles Wambugu said there were claims that some creditors collude with criminals. "Some of the companies selling motorcycles on credit could be colluding with criminals who pose as passengers before attacking, killing operators and stealing their motorbikes," he said. The administrator spoke on Tuesday at the Mlolongo assistant county commissioner's office. Such incidences are rampant in Mlolongo, Syokimau and Katani, within Mlolongo division of Machakos county and their environs. Motorbike theft is however experienced in most parts of Machakos. Boda boda operators have been pointing fingers at some of the companies who sell them the motorcycles on hire purchase terms. Wambugu said he will summon the companies to appear before the subcounty security committee for interrogation. The administrator also questioned why the companies were delaying to engage NTSA for speedy processing of new number plates to their motorcycles. "Most of the motorbikes being targeted have no number plates. "We will hold a meeting with NTSA officials and the companies that sell motorcycles on hire purchase terms, so that they tell us what the problem is," Wambugu said. The administrator was flanked by the Athi River subcounty security committee alongside Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Ongaga, DCIO and OCSs from Mlolongo and Mavoko SNP police stations. "Today we came to hold a meeting with boda boda riders' officials of Mlolongo. The purpose of the meeting is to address cases of killings of boda boda riders and theft of their motorcycles," Wambugu said. "On Friday, a boda boda rider was hired by two men to take them to Katani at around 8pm. The two who were armed with a pistol, fatally shot the rider and stole the motorbike, " he added. Wambugu said operators should take precaution while being hired by supposed clients especially during the night. "Security begins with you and me. Money aside, boda boda operators should avoid ferrying two passengers to minimise risk of attacks," Wambugu said. He also cautioned the operators against operating late in the night, exposing themselves to the criminals. "We are told some of you work for 12 - 14 hours to settle the motorcycles' loans. Take care of your life first. Work together with security agencies by giving information on suspicious characters," Wambugu said. He said the operators should be self disciplined and make it a habit of picking passengers in designated boda boda stages. This, he says, will enable them identify suspects and minimise motorbikes' theft. The administrator said police are in pursuit of the criminals terrorising the operators. "We have been briefed by DCI officers and investigations are ongoing," Wambugu said. He added that every person involved will be brought to book. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)