Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has said his two years in power have seen significant achievements for residents despite the challenges of Covid-19. The pandemic struck just months after Nyoro took over from impeached Governor Ferdinand Waititu on January 31, 2020. Containing the pandemic became his administration's top priority. Still, he said, more than 1,000km of roads have been upgraded to bitumen standard and 1,500km of rural access roads rehabilitated. Nyoro said the county celebrates the first ICU in 100 years in Kiambu Level 5 Hospital, as well as an increase in bed capacity to 1,500 across the county hospitals. Water connectivity has been increased from 56 per cent to 85 per cent, with 120,000 households now connected to piped water. “I envision a Kiambu whose growth is not only planned but sustainable and I know together we can attain it,” Nyoro said. Speaking during a thanksgiving ceremony held at Kiambu county  offices in Kiambu town on Monday while celebrating his tenure as governor, he said it has been an immense work, rebuilding and restoring the county. “I would not have done it without the support of the staff, the people of Kiambu and above all, God. We cannot ignore the cooperation and support of the national government,” Nyoro said. Nyoro took over office on January 31, 2020 after former governor Ferdinand Waititu was impeached and shown the door by the Senate due to graft and abuse of office. He was Waititu's deputy after they were sworn in to office in 2017 through a Jubilee Party ticket. In 2018 Nyoro accused Waititu of frustrating him in a bid to have him quit his position. This is after Waititu questioned his style of leadership, accusing him of running the county affairs alone without involving the county executive committee. In 2019 Kiambu residents from the 12 subcounties led by ‘Okoa Kiambu’ lobby collected signatures from the 1.2 million registered voters and managed to collect 211,000 signatures. They petitioned Kiambu county assembly to remove waititu from office. Waititu was impeached on three charges, all of which were upheld. The first charge was gross violation of the Constitution, Public Finance Management Act and PPD Act. For this charge, 27 senators upheld the charge, while 12 voted in the governor's favour. In the second charge, crimes under the national law, 28 senators upheld the charge, while 11 voted to drop the charge. In the third charge, abuse of office, 28 voted to uphold the charge, while 11 voted to drop it. Nyoro said that, while in office, his government has made major transformation in the health, roads and infrastructure, water, human resource and agriculture sectors. Nyoro, in his first year in office, had said that he had inherited a house full of rats that were eating each other and was focused in making efforts to eradicate corruption in the county. Nyoro said that his government automated its services and has been able to increase revenue. He applauded Kiambu people for continued support and having faith in his leadership, which involves engaging and interacting with them in moving the county forward. Those in attendance during the ceremony were Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi, Transport PS Joseph Njoroge, KenGen CEO Eddie Njoroge and Kiambu assembly members led by leader of majority Gideon Gachara. Others include clergy drawn from all churches, county executives, employees and residents. (edited by Amol Awuor)