Former State House chief of staff Nzioka Waita has taken over as Chama Cha Uzalendo party leader. Waita’s leadership was published on the Kenya Gazette Notice No 1992 under the Political Parties Act NO 11 of 2011 on Friday. The notice read, “Change of political party officials: In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20 (1) © of the Political Parties Act, 2011, the Registra of Political Parties gives notice that Chama Cha Uzalendo intends to make changes to their party officials as follows. Party leader – Nzioka Siwadie Waita, chairperson – Stanley Olonana Ole Ntutu, secretary general – Philippe Opiyo Sadjah, deputy secretary general – Nicholas Mue Kamwenwa.” Others include Bernard Mwongela (national treasurer), Caroline Malinda (deputy national treasurer) and Kenneth Kipkemboi Lel (deputy national organising secretary). Also, Irene Wambua (national women congress leader), Asha Wanje (deputy women congress leader) and Bernard Muindi (national youth congress leader). Mutindi Muoka, Franciscar Mutisya and Edward Ringera are the party’s deputy national youth congress leader, national person with disability congress leader and deputy national persons with disability congress leader respectively. Speaking publicly for the first time after he took over as the party’s leader, Waita said his party will support Azimio La Umoja and a Raila Odinga presidency on August 9. The CCU leader addressed faithful at Salvation Army Church at Nguluni in Matungulu, Machakos county on Sunday. The Machakos gubernatorial aspirant said Raila was the perfect reformist capable of uniting all Kenyans. He said the Kenyan leadership should be vested on honest leaders and Raila fits the bill. “Raila is a leader par excellence, the others are in a lower cohort,” Waita said. CCU party leadership was declared vacant after former Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti joined Wiper party in 2016 ahead of 2017 general election. Ndeti contested for the Machakos gubernatorial seat on a Wiper ticket in 2017 but lost to Governor Alfred Mutua. Ndeti is currently battling for Wiper ticket with Machakos speaker Florence Mwangangi and Mavoko MP Patrick Makau. On his campaigning agenda, Waita said he is now focused on winning the seat having secured a political party to get to the ballot. He said he is confident that Machakos electorate will overwhelmingly vote him as their next governor. Waita said if elected, he will lobby the national government to designate the Export Processing Zone Authority in Athi River to a Special Economic Zone. He said his administration will constitute of a faith based advisory council to ensure inclusivity. The party welcomed Waita’s take over as the new leader. Secretary general Philippe Sadja said it was good for the party as a national institution that champions for democratic space for all Kenyans. “It’s also a plus for his personal political ambitions of becoming the governor of Machakos. The party’s first business is to support its aspiring candidates like any other political parties in Kenya,” Sadja told the Star by phone on Monday. He said CCU shall support Nzioka Waita for any seat he wishes to occupy. "He is the party leader, the party owes him that loyalty.” (Edited by Bilha Makokha)