The battle for Narok governorship race has taken a new twist after Narok Women Representative Soipan Tuya and Narok West MP Gabriel Tongoyo dropped their bids and unanimously agreed to support former Labour CAS Patrick Ntutu under UDA ticket. The deal was reached after the intervention of Deputy President William Ruto who announced the move on Thursday. The event was also attended by MPs Johana Ngeno (Emurua Dikirr), Ken Aramat (Narok East), Nominated MP David Sankok, former Narok Senator Stephen ole Ntutu among other leaders. Tongoyo will now defend his parliamentary seat while Soipan will not contest for any seat but campaign for the UDA party. In December, Lemein was the first legislator to drop his ambitions and concentrate on how he will defend his parliamentary seat. While unveiling the leaders, DP lauded the leaders for embracing consensus as a way of identifying contenders for various seats in the county in the upcoming UDA nominations. “I congratulated Hon Patrick Ntutu following your endorsement by your colleagues and support to run for the seat of the governor for Narok County,” said DP. He said talks to the agreement were initiated two months ago with several stakeholders including leaders, opinion leaders and party officials and bore fruits on Thursday. “We have been looking for ways on which we can reach the consensus according to the party constitution and we are delighted today that we have agreed on one candidate that we will face our opponents in the coming elections,” he said. Ruto said the leaders opted for consensus so as to reduce the chances of fallouts that normally arises from nominations. “As UDA, we want to head into the general elections while we are united and ready to floor all our opponents. I am happy because these leaders decided to leave their personal differences and sacrifices and support one of them,” he said. The fight for the resource-rich county top seat has turned out to be two-horse races between Ntutu and Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta, who was also recently picked through consensus by ODM leader Rail Odinga. While accepting the UDA flag in the August general elections, Ntutu thanked the two leaders for ceding their ambitions for his bid. “I have been running against two of my colleagues and I, therefore, convey profound humility and deepest gratitude they have accorded me. This is a rise to the spirit of nationhood for the greater good of our party, UDA, people of Narok and our great country,” said Ntutu. He also thanked the DP for creating a conducive environment for the leaders to deliberate on the best way to partner and move as a united team. “We sincerely appreciate our supporters for your patience and commitment through the entire process. It would not have been possible without your blessings and understanding,” he said. He resigned from the government recently to concentrate on politics. On her part, Saipan said they decided to use consensus as a mechanism to reach an agreement and field one candidate so as to ensure the UDA party win the seat in the Narok. She added that her agenda was to unite all the people in the county and lashed out at their opponents who are using divisive politics in their campaigns. Tongoyo said congratulated Ntutu for emerging the winner in the talks and pledged to support him fully in the quest to be the second governor of Narok after Samuel Tunai. He thanked the party for giving him an opportunity to exercise his democratic rights and promised to continue to campaign for it and the deputy president.