Comedian Herman Kago, popularly known as Prof Hamo, says he has learnt how to handle social media pressure as a public figure. Hamo was a trending topic for months after his baby mama Jemutai publicly accused him of being an absent dad to his two children. Speaking to Word Is, Hamo said the pressure was too much. "I'm a public figure and pressure is always here with me," he said. "I understood that pressure comes with this territory and I stopped fighting it and just keep going with the flow," he said. The two reconciled and are currently living together. Asked if he regrets that the matter exploded on social media, Hamo said the whole situation made him stronger. He said as much as it affected him, it touched someone's life. "I don't regret the fame. It is awesome, fame gives you opportunities you'd never imagine. Fame is God's gift to a person he loves, it gives you what money can't buy, and that's the power to change lives." Hamo said he has learnt not to speak about everything shared on social media. "Social media is like that drunk uncle at a wedding. He is the best dancer but don't give him the microphone, he'll truly embarrass you," he said. "My advice for social media users is enjoy it kabisa and don't ignore its power to reach millions. Learn it and work on it, it's a beautiful tool in our day and age." His worst fear is not living to his full potential. "If I can swim across the ocean and live to tell the story, then why stay in a pond?" Hamo is currently showcasing his singing talent. He said he has gone back to his first love. "Music for me is my first love. I performed in a band for four years before coming to Churchill Show," he said. Hamo also added that he has always tried to find a way to push his love for music through the intros and outros on the Churchill Show. "'Teka' is the beginning of a journey that @ChristarBingwa and I want to take, just enjoying ourselves, and the support has been mind-boggling. May God continue to bless all our fans out here for your support," he wrote. Hamo said going back to doing music is a statement to everyone out there who believes there's more to them than what we know about them. "Please, you lose nothing by doing anything you love. It gives you the freshness we all need."