A fortnight ago, I was mouthing off on the boring football on display at the Africa Cup of Nations. I am glad to see that the main characters listened to my cries — and of million other football fans — and upped their game. The standard of football at this continental showpiece has drastically improved as teams set out to attack with reckless abandon. Bar the odd controversial refereeing decision, most of the matches have been entertaining from a fan's perspective. I have been particularly impressed by teams hitherto considered minnows and whipping boys. Nations such as Comoros, Malawi, Equatorial Guinea, Sierra Leone and Gambia tore up the form book by pushing the more established sides to the limit. Comoros produced the biggest shock of the tournament, slaying pre-tournament favourites Ghana 3-2 to bundle them out of the competition. Gambia — in their maiden appearance at Afcon — beat Guinea 2-1 to qualify for the quarters. As a Kenyan, it is heartbreaking and shameful to see these teams, some of which feature lower on Fifa rankings than Harambee Stars, perform better than our national team has ever done. Save for Malawi, what is noticeable about them is the high number of players who were born in Europe within their playing ranks. For instance, all of Comoros players, except one, were born and raised in France. Likewise, my suggestion is for Harambee Stars to take the same route and build a team entirely composed of players born abroad. This may sound like a controversial suggestion, motivated by a misplaced belief in the white man's systems, but please hear me out. The advantage diaspora players have over their local counterparts is the chance to grow within a modern, advanced talent development system, which harnesses their potential from a young age. As a result, most are already imbibed with basic football skills at a young age rather than attain the age of 30 and still struggle with the same. It is no secret that our talent development system, as far as football is concerned, is still in the ancient stage. You only need to attend one of our local matches to see the kind of 'thup! thup!' football on display. Morocco is an example of a country, which started from scratch by building a team composed of players born in football-rich European nations, such as the Netherlands, France, Belgium, Switzerland and Germany, among others. Before their quarter final elimination by Egypt, they were one of the teams displaying an attractive brand of football, where the players were able to keep the ball on the ground despite the pitiable state of some of the pitches in Cameroon. If Harambee Stars were to borrow a leaf from these nations, we would not be short of diaspora-born players willing to answer a national call-up. Players like Everton's Tyler Onyango, Australian-based Bruce Kamau and Barnsley's Clarke Oduor are some of those who could translate their football knowledge acquired in Europe into great results on the pitch. Furthermore, local players would learn a thing or two from them on improving their game. In the meantime, while we adopt this short-term strategy, Kenya could focus on upgrading its talent development system to modern standards.