More than 2,900 children from Mathioya constituency are relieved after a well-wisher donated clip boards, pencils and geometrical sets to all the 58 public primary schools. Stephen Macharia said the move was necessitated by the suffering he saw in parents struggling to keep their children in school. Hard economic times have pushed many parents in Mathioya, Muranga county, to rely heavily on bursaries and scholarships to keep their children in school. Even worse, some of those families were unable to provide materials required for national examinations, such as good quality pencils and geometrical sets. This has even forced teachers to dig into their pockets to help such pupils in order to ensure that they do not miss out on the crucial examinations. According to Kiria-ini Primary School head teacher Lawrence Kinyua, the situation has been like that in the last two years, with the Covid-19 pandemic that caused an economy slump resulting to the loss of jobs for many parents. Macharia, who donated the items, said many parents have been struggling to feed their children and that buying the examination materials would have been a tall order for them. He further said his donation will ensure all children get an equal chance when writing the examinations regardless of their backgrounds. Macharia said it will also save parents the struggle of acquiring the materials and enable them to focus on supporting their children during the examinations. “This is just an effort to contribute to a better academic performance of our area and to give back to my community,” he said. Macharia, however, challenged parents to ensure they contribute as much as possible to their children’s education and desist from leaving the burden to teachers. While issuing the materials at Kiria-ini Primary School, he also asked more well-wishers to join his cause, especially as the pupils join secondary schools. “These children will require help as they join Form 1, so I am appealing to everybody to contribute and help enrol them in secondary schools in the spirit of ensuring 100 per cent transition,” he said. KCPE is expected to take place from March 7 to March 10 this year. (Edited by Amol Awuor)