@ppcheti The lack of navigation lights in the Indian Ocean in Lamu has been blamed for the growing number of boat accidents. The situation has complicated navigation especially at night as the majority of the channels plied by vessels are not lit making it impossible for coxswains to spot other vessels or other objects at night. The situation has equally been complicated further by the lack of navigation buoys, crucial elements of any marine navigation. Lamu Sea Transport Users Association said the situation has caused many accidents and loss of properties once vessels capsize as boat operators are forced to navigate blindly. According to a report by the Kenya Maritime Authority, Lamu recorded the highest number of marine deaths in the Coastal region last year. Eleven people died in boat accidents on the Indian Ocean between January and December. Another 166 were rescued by teams from KMA, the county disaster rescue unit and local divers. According to the merchant shipping Act, KMA is responsible for ensuring the safety of sea users by ensuring all necessary infrastructure are erected and users enlightened on their importance. Most of the buoys and navigation lights were erected years back and have since fallen off and in dire condition having been rendered unusable. There have been reports where sailors and fishermen have lost their way at sea and were unable to locate their way back and ended up dead and unaccounted for to date. “With proper infrastructure, people will navigate safely. We can’t have boats bumping into coral reefs at night. Let them replace all the older buoys and lights for safety,” LSTUA chairperson Yusuf Ali said. The association has urged the county and national government to put in place an active and well-maintained marine disaster rescue unit in the case of marine accidents. “We want a unit in place complete with trained divers and equipment,” Ali said. Despite the worrying statistics, Lamu doesn’t have a single outfit in place to help victims of marine accidents. Lives have been lost at sea following delays in response, search and rescue from a locally assembled team of divers whose operations are largely plagued by a lack of technical and financial support. At least 15 people die from marine accidents in Lamu every year according to the county fisheries and transport departments. Last year, August registered the highest number of marine incidents with seven deaths and 12 boats capsized. Edited by Kiilu Damaris