As the government races against time to help 2.8 million Kenyans affected by drought, hundreds of wildlife species have succumbed to the ravaging dry spell. A source within Kenya Wildlife Service familiar with the happenings told the Star on Friday that hundreds of wildlife have succumbed with elephants being the most affected. “This is mainly due to lack of water and forage,” the source said. He added: “Data collection is ongoing. However, KWS, in partnership, with other organisations and communities are providing water to wildlife.” The source added that the human-wildlife conflict has increased in some areas due to conflict over scarce resources. Wildlife in Samburu, Wajir, Mandera and Marsabit have been affected. Livestock from Tanzania, Magadi, Narok North, and Kajiado Central have invaded protected areas. This comes even as the government is grappling to clear an outstanding balance of Sh14 billion to the victims of human-wildlife conflict. The Wildlife Conservation and Management Act 2013 requires Sh5 million to be paid for human death, Sh3 million for injury with permanent disability and up to Sh2 million for other injuries, depending on their extent. Many parts of the country are experiencing prolonged drought after the October-December short rains failed. The counties under food and water stress remain 23. Out of these, 12 counties: Samburu, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir, Baringo, Garissa, Isiolo, Kilifi, Kitui, Lamu, Mandera and Marsabit are facing the severe risk of drought. The remaining 11 counties face a moderate risk of drought. This is likely to worsen as Kenya Meteorological Department’s forecast for this month said that most parts of the country will experience generally sunny and dry conditions throughout the month. Occasional rainfall is however likely to occur over a few places in the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Southern Rift Valley, parts of the Highlands East of the Rift Valley, including Nairobi and parts of the South-eastern lowlands, according to the forecast. The forecast said the expected sunny and dry conditions will worsen the drought conditions in the northern parts of the country and lead to a further reduction in pasture and fodder for wildlife and livestock, especially in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands. “It is also likely to lead to a further shortage of drinking water for humans, livestock and wildlife and may result in human-to-human and human to wildlife conflicts,” the forecast added. The forecast advised the Ministry of Interior to put in place measures to avert possible negative impacts that may arise. On Friday, Food and Agricultural Organisation warned that the extended, multi-season drought is driving acute food insecurity in the Horn of Africa, with 12 to 14 million people now at risk as crops continue to wither and animals become weakened. FAO said in a statement on Friday that resource-based conflicts are escalating as competition for water and pasture lands increases. The agency added that malnutrition rates are rising in affected areas of Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia, highlighting the need to sustain the rural livelihoods that underpin peace and food security across the Horn. At a briefing to international donors in Nairobi, FAO and its partners reported that the food security outlook in the region will be highly dependent on the performance of the upcoming rainy season, with forecasts currently uncertain. In a worst-case scenario in which the rains completely fail and agricultural-dependent communities do not receive adequate support, the number of highly food insecure people could climb to 15-20 million. FAO added that some worst-affected households are likely to face “catastrophic” hunger conditions. Additional new analysis published on Thursday from the Food Security and Nutrition Analysis Unit for Somalia, hosted by FAO, shows that in Somalia alone, the number of acutely food insecure people is expected to increase. The increase is project at 3.5 to 4.1 million between January and March 2022, if humanitarian assistance is not received on time. FAO’s deputy director-general Beth Bechdol, subregional coordinator for Eastern Africa David Phiri and director of Emergencies and Resilience Rein Paulsen have just completed a visit to Kenya to raise awareness on the drought and see FAO’s vital response in action, including in Isiolo and Marsabit counties. They said the drought cycles are intensifying and occurring with greater frequency and that immediate humanitarian action to support farmers and herders is needed now. “The international community has a narrow window to prevent a major humanitarian catastrophe here.” FAO said alarm bells have already been rung and scaled-up action is needed.(edited by Amol Awuor)