A Nairobi Magistrate Court has deferred the plea of one of the directors of Interconsult Engineers Limited after the prosecution failed to ascertain the identity of one of the accused persons. There was confusion over the name of the accused persons after one Eugene Jayson Kariuki appeared in court to plead to the charges on behalf of the company while the charge sheet had the name of Eugene Kariuki Muchemi. “The investigating officer does not know the identity of the accused person though the said company was registered under one Eugene Kariuki Muchemi, we ask for a mention date to confirm the identity,” the prosecution told the court. Chief Magistrate Wendy Kagendo directed the matter to be mentioned on March 8 for plea-taking. Eugene is charged alongside three top employees of Multi-choice with conspiring to defraud the company by intentionally altering the structural integrity investigation report on the proposed construction of an office block for multi-choice Kenya. Eugine Kariuki Muchemi, who is the first accused person, is accused of making a false document. According to the charge sheet, he made a false structural integrity investigation report on the proposed construction of an office block for Multichoice Kenya with the intent to deceive. The accused purported the integrity investigation report to be valid and genuine. Lavender Lucy Waindi, who is a legal officer at the said company is charged with inciting another to commit an offence. She is said to have incited Eugine Kariuki to extract part of the structural integrity investigation report that was to be presented to Cementers limited. The offense was allegedly committed on April 8, 2017. The four were charged with Conspiracy to defraud. According to the charge sheet being the directors of Interconsult Engineers Limited, Conappex structural and civil engineering, they conspired to defraud Multi Kenya Limited by altering the structural integrity investigation report on the proposed construction of an office block. The offense was committed on diverse dates between February 1, 2017, and April 30, 2017. The three had been released on a bond of Sh500,000 with an alternative cash bail of Sh100,000.