Wajir governor aspirant Siyad Abdullahi has urged politicians to run clean campaigns devoid of incitement and name calling. Abdullahi said inciting communities against each other will not get one the votes. The aspirant spoke in Wajir town on Tuesday after a meeting with Degodia youths where he discussed issues affecting them and how he will help alleviate those challenges. He said communities are enlightened and want issue-based campaigns. “I promise to run a different campaign from that we are used to or have seen before, that of transformative change to the county,” Abdullahi said. The aspirant said his team will run decent campaigns. “I will never go that route of name calling and mudslinging my competitors or even throwing the clan or sub clan card in order to get votes,” he said. Abdullahi regretted that despite the youth forming majority of the population, they still leave in abject poverty. He said the situation has not only made them lose hope in life but also made them fall prey to bad groupings. The aspirant promised to run a youthful campaign geared towards bringing meaningful change. He said the youth struggle with unemployment, lack of education progression, poor performance at national exams and increased use of drugs and substance abuse. "These are challenges which we must tackle head on,” he added. Abdullahi is a healthcare entrepreneur and a public health expert with a background in family medicine. He has lived in the USA for more than 20 years and promises to use his networks and experience in getting jobs and scholarships for the youth. “I promise to establish a county data base for the youth in all six subcounties as well as do a complete audit of unemployed youth,” he said. Abdullahi hails from Wajir West and has already been endorsed by his Mithimal and Matan sub clans as well as the larger Degodia community. He however says he is determined to put together a team that has the face of all residents, hinting at forming a collation with other communities in Wajir. Abdullahi, who later had a brief engagement with football players at Sanbuley Secondary School field, said despite the county getting billions from the national government, not much is visible in terms of development programmes. He said the county is faced with a myriad of challenges among them an ailing health sector which needs serious, urgent and proper management. “It is unfortunate that while other counties in northern Kenya have made tremendous progress in the last two devolution cycles, we have only managed to make a false start thanks to poor leadership,” Abdullahi said. Once elected, he promised to prioritise a modern sewer system, proper waste management systems and a connection to the national electricity grid. “Proper urban planning is needed in Wajir town, as things stand now the town is structured in a very haphazard way. "We also need to focus on radical infrastructure development so as to get the wheel of development rolling,” he said. The aspirant said once they are connected to national grid, it will be easier to build industries that will create job opportunities for residents. The county is inhabited by the Degodias, Ogaden and the Ajuran with the former being the majority. They occupy Wajir East, Wajir West, Tarbaj and Eldas subcounties. Others in the race are the first governor of Wajir Ahmed Abdullahi and incumbent Ahmed Mukhtar, who succeeded his former boss Mohamed Abdi after his impeachment early last year. Other new entrants are Hassan Wehliye, Ugas Sheikh and Dr Hassan Mohamed. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)