Four survivors of the gas tanker that exploded on Sunday at Mutarakwa in Kiambu county are still admitted at the Kenyatta National Hospital. They were referred to KNH from PCEA Kikuyu Hospital, where they had been rushed together with other three survivors. The seven sustained burn injuries after the tanker exploded into flames along the Nairobi-Mai Mahiu road. Limuru deputy subcounty police commander Gitonga Thumi said the tanker belonging to Multi-Energy Company was transporting liquefied petroleum gas from Mombasa to Kisumu. The police boss said the tanker overturned in unclear circumstances, landing in a ditch. Thumi said company officials arrived at the scene to salvage the tanker but their efforts proved futile. Attempts to lift the tanker caused sparks of fires, snowballing into an inferno. The officer confirmed that four lorries and three personal vehicles were burnt, leaving a trail of wreckage while seven people sustained injuries and were rushed to the Kikuyu hospital with injuries. “We are investigating the incident” the officer said. Limuru MP aspirant Njenga Murugami said he was among those who rushed the survivors to Kikuyu hospital, saying they had serious injuries on their bodies. He said "four of them were transferred to KNH on Sunday evening and I took them there and were admitted. We started tracing their families and hooked them up with the police.” Murugami spoke Tuesday while visiting the survivors at the KNH. However, Murugami, who is a former Limuru Central MCA, said the fire destroyed trees, fences and weakened houses of the families living next to the highway. He said they have contacted a property valuer to estimate the damage so that they can be compensated by Multi-Energy Company or its insurance company. “There are blue gum trees, fences, houses and food crops in the farms. They are worth millions of shillings but the valuer will tell us,” Murugami said. A resident, John Mwai, said the families plant tall trees next to the highway to prevent heavy lorries from overturning in their farms. “These trees have always guarded our homes and farms,” he said. “But when the gas exploded into red and blue flames, the trees were affected and burnt,” Mwai said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)