After winning the men's under-20 8km race at the Agnes Tirop Memorial World Cross Country Tour, Shadrack Chirchir hopes to be signed up by the Kenya Defence Forces in the next recruitment exercise. Chirchir said joining the military has always been his dream and is working towards it even as he prepares to sit for his KCSE exams next month. After today, it's back to books for me to prepare for my Form Four exams. I hope that this will be enough for me to secure a place in the military because that is my biggest desire," Chirchir said. He excelled at Lobo village on Saturday, clocking 23:55 ahead of Gideon Rono (24:02) and Dennis Kipkirui (24:10) in second and third respectively. However, Chirchir said the race had pushed his fitness levels to the extreme, especially due to the hot weather. "The weather was very hot and the course was quite tough. It was necessary to put all my energy into securing victory. Thank God the hard work I have been putting in training proved helpful in the end," he said. The youngster is hoping to represent the country in the men's 5000m at the World Under-20 Championship in Cali, Colombia in July. Despite the country's past struggles in the 12-and-a-half lap race, Chirchir believes he can be a source of medals for Kenya in the years to come. "I don't think its too much pressure so long as you keep working hard in training. I am confident I have a lot to offer the country in terms of medals if only I am given the chance to fly the Kenyan flag," he said. Meanwhile, Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei says attention now shifts to organising a successful, third edition of the Kip Keino Classic in May. "We are proud to have honoured the memory of the late Agnes Tirop who will forever remain in our hearts as our heroine. We now shift our focus to another global showpiece— the KipKeino Classic Continental Tour Gold meeting penciled for May 7," Tuwei said. Tuwei further attributed the success of Saturday's event to the passion exhibited by the fans who attended the event in their numbers. "I wish to express my uttermost gratitude to everyone who made the day a success beginning with World Athletics who awarded us the rights to host such an event. To our athletes who competed on Saturday, we are very proud of you our heroes and heroines," he said. The one-day competition was the last of 14-leg series of cross country events, which began on October 16 in Cardiff, Wales.