The government hopes to increase the local rice production rate to an estimated 1.3 million metric tons by 2030, to fill the deficit that is currently sourced externally. This is against an estimated annual local production of 180,000 metric tons. Kenya imports 80 per cent of its rice for consumption. Mary Mutembei, the head of rice promotion under the department of crop development in the Ministry of Agriculture said Kenyans have started to adopt rice as a common meal in the wake of a rising population and the need for a dietary change. According to government statistics, in 2016 the annual consumption rate per individual was 12 kilograms against 25.3 kilograms in 2020 “Many youths especially those living in the urban centres have changed their diet and prefer rice to maize. Such factors and many more have led to an increased demand for the crop despite an insufficient local supply,” she said. “We only manage to farm 20 per cent of what is consumed locally across the 24 counties. However, the Mwea irrigation scheme is the mega-producer.” She called on farmers to adopt the cultivation of hybrid seeds to secure the government's food security agenda and increase their profit margins after the sale of their produce. Speaking on Friday, Mutembei said the government would continue partnering with local and international crop experts and seed development agencies to boost improved seeds that can lead to increased local production. She was speaking in the Mwea irrigation scheme in Kirinyaga during a rice farmers' field day. Mutembei hailed more than six seed varieties that were showcased to the farmers. “The experts have undertaken enough research to ensure what is distributed for planting guarantees the farmer a low cost of production and is fit for human consumption,” she said. She said the new variety was convenient compared to the conventional type as it matures faster, is not prone to flooding, can withstand harsh weather and many other stressful crop conditions. Moreover, it retains the aromatic trait and has a long full grain shape. Mutembei said with improved mechanisation, farmers were assured of a short farming season. Among the varieties showcased to the farmers were Komboka, PWAN gold, AH18007, AH18004, SCH04 among others. Emmanuel Okogbenin, the director in charge of programmes and commercialisation at the African Agriculture Technology Foundation urged the government to support Kenyan farmers to increase production, to meet the local demand. He said it was unfortunate for Kenya and entire Africa to continue importing food while they could produce their own at a local level. Okogbenin said Africa has thus far spent over Sh3,955,416 ($35,000) in the importation of food, calling on the respective African states to stamp their authority in matters of local food production. He said through the creation of friendly policies, incentives interest rates, availability of ready market, quality seeds and subsidised farm inputs are among the many reasons that will boost the farmers' morale to produce more. Okogbenin urged rice farmers to not only farm their produce for subsistence means but commercial purposes. He reiterated the importance of African countries to trade amongst themselves to boost food self-sufficiency across the continent help promote regional trade. “Farmers should not just view farming as a mere side support venture, they should get fully involved in it and see it as an agribusiness that is capable of transforming their lives,” Okogbenin said. “It has come to a point when Kenya and the entire continent starts to aggressively produce and promote  their products as opposed to enriching external farmers.” He said his firm is partnering with other like-minded agencies to make sure Africa has its hybrid seeds thus ensuring reducing over-reliance on external markets. Edited by Kiilu Damaris