A KDF officer has narrated to court how his routine evening exercise along Bunyala Road turned into a nightmare after he was accosted by robbers. “I was jogging as my normal routine practice when a group of between six and seven young men ambushed me with pangas and other crude weapons. They inflicted cuts on my hands and stole my phone and cash," Brigadier Richard  Gichangi Kabage told court. He said the incident occurred on March 13, 2016. “I had jogged along the Mbagathi road up to Nyayo Stadium to Uhuru Highway with the hope of getting along Haile Selassie Avenue then back to my home when they attacked me,” he added. The officer said the robbers ordered him to send them cash before they could set him free. “They told me that they had my number and they wanted money and my phone could not get money from my bank," he told court. "They then told me to get in touch with someone who was in a position to send Sh200,000 so that I get my freedom.” Gichangi, the court heard, contacted his brother who is a police officer who sent some him Sh50,000 to his phone. The court further heard that after they received the money, they set him free and one of the robbers dressed his wounds, before escaping with his phone. His brother, Fredrick Kabage, also testified in court that he reported the incident to the police and confirmed that he sent the said money that was given to the robbers. “I reported the matter to the police and the investigations began and the accused person was arrested. I can confirm from his voice that he is the one who called me," he said. In the case, two suspects, Peter Nguguna Gikuna and Juma Muriuki, are charged with robbery with violence in which the brigadier lost his items. They are said to have committed the offence on March 13, 2016 at Railways Golf Course along Uhuru Highway while armed with machetes and other crude weapons. They are said to have stolen his mobile phone worth Sh30,000 and cash totalling Sh50,000 contrary to the Penal Code. Juma Muriuki on the other side is charged with handling the stolen items contrary to the penal Code. Muriuki was found in possession of the brigadier's phone hence the charges against him. The suspects were released on a bond of Sh1 million. Kibera chief magistrate Ann Mwangi directed that the case proceeds on March 9.  (edited by Amol Awuor)