Ulinzi Stars' head coach Benjamin Nyangweso has thrown the gauntlet to his charges to toil and reclaim the form that fired them to their four historic league titles. The soldiers host last season's runners-up KCB at ASK Grounds in Nakuru on Sunday and Nyangweso is quacking in the boots over the wobbly shape of the team ahead of the encounter. The last time they basked in top-flight glory was in 2010 when they wrapped up the season at the summit of the log with 59 points to edge out traditional giants, Gor Mahia, to the title. This season, the soldiers have been a pale shadow of themselves and their current status in the standings — where they sit in a precarious 13th position with 22 points — aptly portrays their real struggles. Nyangweso says the situation is causing him sleepless nights as he tears off his hair in search of an instant remedy. “I'm not happy with the position we are in at the moment. No coach would be smiling if his team were in such a position,” said Nyangweso. “I have communicated my concerns to the players and we all agree we must work hard to rectify the situation,” he said. On the other hand, KCB could be on course for reliving last season's glory, after cementing their slot in the top five for the better part of the season. They are currently fourth on the log with 31 points, six adrift of  surprise package, Kakamega Homeboyz. Homeboyz, who might end up being the competition's dark horses face Bidco United at Bukhungu Stadium where they have always proved to be a hard nut to crack. Gor Mahia gaffer Andreas Spiers will be keen to stretch his winless streak to three matches since he took over when they flex muscles with coastal Bandari in a scrumptious encounter at Mbaraki Stadium on Sunday. K'Ogalo thumped Posta Rangers 3-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani before pipping bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets 1-0 to fire themselves to fifth with 30 points, effectively reigniting their hopes for a 2oth title. The dockers are resting all their hopes on the shoulders of newly appointed head coach Antony Kimani to turn around their fortunes. They are ninth on the log with 26 points. AFC Leopards might find the going easy this weekend when they flex muscles with Vihiga Bullets at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. Champions, Tusker travel all the way to Wundanyi Stadium to settle scores with Sofapaka. Kariobangi Sharks host a rejuvenated Nzoia Sugar side at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday as struggling Wazito battle Kenya Police at Nyayo Stadium on the same day. Nairobi City Stars hope to close in on Homeboyz at the summit when they host Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Saturday. Debutantes Talanta lock horns with Posta Rangers at Moi Stadium, Kasarani.