About a week ago, activist Boniface Mwangi posted a video on his Instagram page that was really sickening. The video was his and his wife Njeri Mwangi's angry reaction to being harassed by Public Service Vehicle operators. Njeri was groped by a matatu operator at a bus station. What is infuriating about that incident is that this kind of harassment happens all the time. The first time the lid was lifted over the harassment of women in public transport and spaces was probably in 2014. The infamous #Mydressmychoice protest went viral in Kenya after a woman was stripped naked at a matatu station for 'indecent dressing'. That incident was followed by numerous other vile incidents of women being stripped by touts and other matatu operators, who took it upon themselves to police women's dressing. But sexual harassment of women in public transport has gone beyond just targeting those who are perceived to be indecently dressed. Women are generally targeted for being women. FEELING HELPLESS Men and women have very unique and different experiences while using public and private transport. For women, any day could be the day when you experience harassment while in a matatu or in private transport. According to a report by UN Women in collaboration with Kenyatta University and the Stockholm Environment Institute in Nairobi, more than 80 per cent of women experience sexual harassment in matatus. The report titled 'Women and Public Transport in Nairobi' revealed that most women felt that nothing could be done about this issue. "80 per cent of women using matatu report this form of harassment, and it appears there is nothing they can do about it," it said. Many more women responded to Boniface's post with their own horror stories of harassment. One user named Gathoni said this type of harassment was quite common. "It is the worst. It starts with touts 'casually' touching you as they escort you to the matatu. It's the worst feeling in the world. Worse when doing or saying something about it just exaggerates the disrespect," she said. Bernicek Mwangi also confirmed that this behaviour is rampant with touts in public transport. "They find it amusing to sexually and verbally abuse women simply because they have they think she cannot do anything about it," he said. Another user, Reuel Juddie, said harassment is part of women's daily lives in public transport. "I am looking for a taser for real. They feel entitled and other men around and in the vehicles only brush it off and laugh at us. Both men and women victim-blame rather than deal with the abuser. It's very difficult out here," she said. It is illegal for people to own tasers or pepper spray in Kenya. It is considered as being in possession of a firearm and a licence would be required. FIGHTING BACK Many rights organisations have come out to protest as well as work to protect women and girls from such harassment. The Flone Initiative is one such organisation. Naomi Mwaura, Flone's Founder, has been at the forefront in advocating safe spaces for women and girls in Kenyan transport. In November 2021, Flone did a survey of the public transport industry in Machakos county. They found that 46 per cent of women working in the public transport sector had experienced sexual harassment at the workplace. "Sexual harassment at work, especially in the form of inappropriate physical contact and verbal abuse from male colleagues and passengers, was a big problem," the survey said. Mwaura would later present the survey findings to the county government of Machakos, where the county took a bold step in drafting a sexual harassment policy for the transport sector. The survey also recommended that the county set out to promote the active participation of women and minority groups, while advocating safe spaces free from sexual and gender-based violence. The policy will ensure that public transport areas of work accommodate women, with clean washroom spaces, security personnel who can address harassment complaints, and punishment measures put in place for sexual harassment offenders reported. Hopefully, more counties will go the Machakos way and ensure there are stricter measures put in place to protect women and girls from harassment in public transport. No woman should face any form of harassment when they are accessing any public service.