This was never likely to impress the likes of Poland, Sweden, and the Czech Republic (who have all refused to play Russia in World Cup play-offs next month). Fifa say Russia must play home matches on neutral territory —but who on earth would agree to host them? Even though Fifa has emphasised that the decision was unanimous and supported by the presidents of all six confederations (including Uefa), it will disappoint those calling for Russia to be kicked out of the World Cup, and many will see it as a cop-out. But Fifa insiders are suggesting that this part of the statement is a final warning: “Fifa will continue its ongoing dialogue… to determine any additional measures or sanctions, including a potential exclusion from competitions.” Fifa appear to have drawn on the approach of the IOC who punished Russia for state-sponsored doping with a partial Olympic ban—of its anthems, flags, and official team name, but still allowed the country’s athletes to compete. But many say that after Russia’s invasion of a sovereign country, only a much sterner punishment will suffice, and the close relationship Fifa president Gianni Infantino has forged with Vladimir Putin will once now again come under scrutiny. Also on Sunday, a group of top Ukrainian athletes called on Russian and Belarusian athletes to be banned from competition. The group has written to IOC and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) calling on them to “immediately suspend” the Russian and Belarusian Olympic and Paralympic Committees. They said the suspensions should be made following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and called for it to include the upcoming 2022 Beijing Paralympic Games. Russia as a country is already banned from the Olympics and Paralympics because of a doping scandal but a limited number of athletes are allowed to compete under a neutral flag. “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, supported by Belarus, is a clear breach of the Olympic and Paralympic Charters - a breach that must be met with strong sanctions,” the letter states. “Athletes, our countrymen, our families, and our friends are in grave danger as a result this aggressive assault. “Athletes in Ukraine are united in this call. It has been a challenge to speak with all athletes from Ukraine as they are seeking safety in bomb shelters.” Among those to sign the letter are former world champion triple jumper Olga Saladukha, world-record holding swimmer Andrey Govorov and dozens more. It is also backed by the international athlete-led group Global Athlete. The International Paralympic committee board meets on Wednesday.  