Despite winning the women's 1,500m during the 1st leg of the Athletics Kenya track and Field Weekend Meeting at Nyayo Stadium, Josephine Chelangat says she will push her body the extra mile to attain her career goals for this year. Chelangat clocked 4:11.02 to cross the finish line, ahead of Mirriam Cherop (4:11.04) and National Police Service's Caroline Nyaga (4:14.27) in second and third respectively. The 2018 Kirchberg Meeting champion says she will run in the 5000m at the next weekend's meeting at Kenyatta Stadium in Kisumu on February 19 to improve on her endurance. "I would love to represent Kenya at the World Championship and Commonwealth Games but I know I still need to work on my speed work and endurance. At the upcoming weekend meeting, I plan on running in the 5000m to build upon my endurance. That's the price, I guess, I have to pay to reach the highest level," the Kericho-born said. The CMCM Indoor Meeting 1,500m champion added: "I have also been working hard in the gym, loading up on my muscles to improve on my endurance levels. I also participated in the AK Kapsokwony Cross Country meeting in January this year and these competitions have indeed helped me to improve on my physical fitness." Albeit she admits a place in Team Kenya will be a dream-come-true for her, Chelangat admits she is yet to have a conversation with her coach, Japheth Kemei, on the same. "For now, our focus is on local competitions. I want to test myself and my readiness for international events. We are yet to draw up a strategy for the World or Africa Championship or  Commonwealth because it is still early days," she said. Chelangat added: "Today's competition was my first race for this year and it wasn't easy because of my fitness limitations. I also competed in the 800m to build on my speedwork although this year, I will specialise in the 1500m." Meanwhile, another Kericho native, Caren Chebet, believes the next step for her career is to represent Kenya in Oregon at the World Championship in July. The 2018 Africa Under 20 Championship 3000m steeplechase silver medalist says her self-belief will propel her to her dreams, just as it has enabled her to successfully transition from the junior level. "In 2018, I won the 2000m steeplechase at the World Under 18 in 2017 and then clinched silver in Abidjan (Africa Under 20 Championship). So far, what has worked for me is self-belief and I know this will be crucial as I purpose to qualify for the World Championship," the Kenya Prisons Service officer said.