Deputy President William Ruto has explained why he is suspending his fundraisers. The DP on Monday said he wants to focus on instituting an organised model through which the money he gives out in fundraisers can reach Kenyans, especially small-scale traders. Ruto said the model will be applicable if he is elected the fifth president in the August polls. The DP was addressing an early morning rally in Malaba town in Busia. The DP said the business community will stand to benefit from a special fund that will be channelled through the wards if he becomes president. Those seeking financial help, including people he describes as hustlers, will get aid from the fund. The budget for the kitty, he said, will not be less than Sh50 billion. The DP has fundraised at least twice for boda boda riders, salonists and other small-scale traders in Busia between October last year and Monday when he was in Malaba. Traders, whom he said have for long suffered in the hands of expensive credit lenders, will benefit from the special fund. The DP said all struggling businesses will be assisted financially if he becomes Kenya’s commander-in-chief. “Instead of you going, for example, to pay those brokers for a motorbike that is worth Sh100,000 and end up paying Sh250,000, my government will give you that Sh100,000 so that you buy your motorcycle without paying any money on top,” Ruto said. “That is why we are saying we should stop fundraising for now. Let this money come and help you through a channel at the ward level. I want us to agree on that. Even women who sell vegetables in markets will get funding, even those people running their business in kiosks will get assistance.” Beneficiaries of the fund will be listed together with the businesses they run before funding can be effected, he said. The DP spoke a day after he declared that he will no longer be contributing to church harambees and other fundraising events, at least during the electioneering period. On Sunday, Ruto, who was speaking at a church service in Emuhaya, Vihiga county, said he had temporarily halted the programme until the end of the August 9 elections. The move is influenced by the Elections Act, which bars politicians from contributing to fundraising activities after the gazettement of the election date. Section 26 of the Elections Act provides that a person may be disqualified if he or she directly or indirectly participates in any manner in public fundraising or harambee within eight months of a general election or during an election period. The declaration of the suspension of the fundraisers came after the church had requested for the DP’s contribution to build a church. Ruto said he will not be contributing to the church building projects because the election law does not allow it. He, however, said once the exercise is over, he will commit himself to complete church development projects. In December last year, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati warned that any aspirant who violates the directive risks being disqualified. The DP has been known to be generous when it comes to contributing to churches. Ruto was accompanied by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula, MPs Malulu Injendi (Malava), John Bunyasi (Nambale), Majimbo Kalasinga (Kabuchai) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu). Others were UDA chairman Johnson Muthama, former Teso South MP Mary Emase, Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba and a host UDA aspirants gunning for various elective seats in Busia county. Edited by A.N