Kenya's import costs could drop by up to 35 per cent from April, pegged on the return of larger vessels to Mombasa. The global container shortage witnessed in the second half of last year is also easing which according to shippers has led to increased availability of the units for imports and exports. The return of bigger vessels comes after  11 months of deployment of smaller vessels to the East African ports, including Dar es salaam, as global shipping lines focused on more lucrative routes. According to the Shippers Council of Eastern Africa (SCEA), there was increased trade between Europe and Asia since April last year after a slow down at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. There was also increased shipping activities in North Europe and the US West Coast, leading to an escalation of supply chain uncertainty. As global trade picked last year, most shipping lines scheduled journeys on key international trade routes and major global ports leaving a few feeder vessels to serve smaller ports. “A lot of big carriers focused on China and Europe with only smaller vessels coming to the East Africa,” said SCEA chief executive Gilbert Langat. He said the situation is now stabilising with bigger vessels coming in. There was also a surge in the demand for containerised cargo shipping that saw only a few units deployed to less active markets while major global ports experienced massive delays. This pushed up the cost of  Kenya's cargo imports from key markets such as China by up to 25 per cent. Manufacturers faced shortages on raw materials and intermediate goods as well as disruptions in scheduled production, Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga told the Star. Pre-Covid, shipping a 40 foot container from ports in China, Kenya’s biggest import sources, would cost an average $1,800 (about Sh204, 930). This more than doubled to $4,500 (Sh512,325) when the pandemic disrupted international trade and the shipping industry, as the number of cargo ships available for voyages reduced. “We are seeing that coming down to about 3,600 dollars (Sh409,860). They will still come down and we expect they will normalise at around 2,500 dollars (Sh284,625) by the turn of the year,” Langat told the Star. Increased industrial activities after the end of the Chinese New Year (Lunar New Year) celebration is expected to further increase exports from China. Mombasa port receives between 11 and 15 vessels per week. Improved capacity has seen the vessel turnaround reduce to less than six hours from up to three days, KPA principal communication officer Hajj Masemo told the Star yesterday. "We have enough capacity. We don't keep the waiters long," he said, noting there are up to 10 berths that can handle container vessels, which form the majority of ships calling at Mombasa. Kenya, which is a net importer, brought in goods worth Sh2.15 trillion last year, Kenya National Bureau of Statistics data shows, an increase from Sh1.64 trillion the previous year. Total exports including re-exports totalled Sh738.9 trillion, up from Sh641.2 trillion a year earlier, buoyed by reopening of economies and increased trading activities with key export markets, mainly neighbouring countries. The trade deficit however increased to Sh1.4 trillion.