The University of Embu plans to introduce a curriculum on local languages within ten years. Speaking during the International Mother  Tongue language day celebrations at the university grounds on Tuesday, Vice-Chancellor Daniel Mugendi said they will start by safeguarding the present languages in the digital platform. The event was hosted by the University of Embu in partnership with the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Kenya National Commission (KNATCOM), and the County Government of Embu. The VC said that Unesco has set aside the coming 10 years to improve and preserve the indigenous knowledge and challenged the university to take a crucial role. He added that the institution will come up with the best possible means to ensure it makes a notable milestone in safeguarding the indigenous languages. “We want to make indigenous language part of our curriculum. Our first step will be coming up with possible means on how to safeguard the present languages to fit the digital era,” said VC Mugendi. The VC added that the mother tongue will help in shaping the social life of present-day children and give them a strong sense of identity. Unesco chief officer Evalyn Njoka challenged the university to take centre stage in promoting the indigenous languages through packaging the content on the vast growing digital consumption. Njoka said the society has rich knowledge in indigenous languages and the universities should ensure they help in preserving the knowledge for future consumption. “I’ve challenged the universities to come up with content to ensure they preserve the indigenous knowledge and package the content and put it in the digital space so that our young people can access the knowledge through the ICT,” she said. She gave an example of indigenous knowledge possessed in different communities but on verge of extinction due to lack of accessibility. Embu County Commissioner Eddyson Nyale said that society should take part in preserving their identity through ensuring a continuous passing of indigenous knowledge to generations. “Mother language is something we need to be proud of and use it in giving our identity,” added the commissioner. International Mother language day is celebrated each year on February 21.