Hours after Deputy President William Ruto unveiled Narok UDA gubernatorial aspirant Patrick Ntutu, an MP aspirant has ditched his United Democratic Alliance party (UDA). Mara MCA Tipapa Kirrokor, who is eying Narok West parliamentary seat, defected from the party and joined Azimio la Umoja team that is led by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kirrokor, who was elected on an Independent ticket, together with a host of his supporters defected the party on allegations that the party leadership had favourite candidates in the upcoming nominations. He made the remarks after addressing the journalists in Narok town on Thursday and was welcomed by former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Geothermal Development Company (GDC) Engineer Johnstone ole Nchoe Also in attendance were elders led by Maasai Council of Elders chairman Kelena , youth leaders and opinion leaders. He pledged to support Raila for the presidency and Narok North MP Moitalel Ole Kenta, who is vying for the gubernatorial position in the county on an AZIMIO la Umoja ticket. Kirrokor, alias Joho, said he will now lead his team to move from village to village, house to house to sell the Azimio la Umoja narrative. While congratulating him for the bold move, Eng Nchoe termed the MCA as a visionary leader who had championed for the good of the Maasai Mara Game Reserve. Eng Nchoe said the Azimio La Umoja initiative will unite the country and made clarion calls on Kenyans across the country to join and support it. “The Azimio La Umoja initiative has been advocating for the unity of all Kenyans and that is the way to go for this country. The peaceful co-existence and unity of purpose will ensure democracy because as Kenyans, we will love and respect one another,” he remarked. He also called on Kenyans to support Raila for presidency saying he is the best bet compared to other candidates for the top seat. “Raila will bring tangible change in this country as he has portrayed himself as a national leader,” he said. He said that if the former prime minister was elected as the president, he would take care of the interest of all Kenyans regardless of the tribe. “He is the only leader who will unite Kenyans and is the best placed to end tribalism and usher democracy in this country,” said Eng Nchoe. On his part, Kelena said the Maa elders have a task of directing the community on which stand they should take when it comes to leadership issues. "We have already decided on Azimio La Umoja because that is where our interests will be best addressed," said Kelena. He also noted that they decided to support ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta for their initiatives to unite Kenyans. "When it comes to leadership, respect is very key and there was no way we could remove the deputy president after he started disrespecting President Kenyatta who is a symbol of national unity," he said.