Chess Kenya is impressed by the development of the game in Kisii and Nyamira counties. CK Nyanza regional coordinator, Saphina Kenyando, said so far, more than 30 schools have embraced the game in the two counties. “In 2018, we only had the game in three institutions thus — Kisii School, Sironga Girls, and St Joseph’s Nyabigena. However, over the past five years, we have introduced the game in more than 30 primary and secondary schools,” said Kenyando. Kenyando was speaking after the conclusion of the Kenya National Youth and Cadet Chess Kisii Regional Championship at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. The event attracted 14 primary and secondary schools from Kisii, Nyamira, and Kericho counties. “More schools would have participated but they were engaged in end-term examinations,” she added. She further added that selected participants will represent the region at national championships scheduled for Mombasa from April 1 to 5. During the championship, Kisii School and Sironga Girls dominated the under 18, under 16, and under 14 categories. In the boys' under 18 category, Kisii School’s Marcellinus Phillip emerged top with six points while compatriot Charly Baraka was second with five points. Ashley Cheptoo of Sironga won the girls' under 18 category with five points and was followed in second place by schoolmate Stacy Makini who had 4.5 points. In the boys’ under 14 category, Gavin Gwaro won the title with 5.5 points with schoolmate Gesio Misati finishing second with five points. Roseline Onyancha of Sironga won the girls' under 16 category with five points and was followed in second place by Philomena Owala with 4.5 points. Kisii School’s George Weston won the boys' under 14 category and was followed in second place by Samuel Zack with five points. Nyakongo DOK’s Decla Kemunto garnered five points to win the girls’ under 14 category with veronica Ongati finishing second with three points. The boys’ under 12 category title went to Adrian Kingsley of AIC Kisii with six points with Edwin Kibiwott finishing second with five points.