The Democratic Action Party of Kenya is still in talks on who will be the outfit's flag bearer in the Bungoma senatorial race, leader Wafula Wamunyinyi has said. The seat is currently held by Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula. “I want to appeal to Bungoma residents to be calm. The party will give an official communication on who to run for the senatorial seat on the DAP-K ticket. We want someone who will fight for residents in the Senate, not someone who fronts his own interests,” Wamunyinyi, who is also the Kanduyi MP, said. Wamunyinyi was speaking at Posta grounds in Bungoma during a DAP-K rally. The event was attended by Azimio la Umoja leaders led by ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya and Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa, who is deemed the de facto party leader. The Kanduyi MP asked residents to vote for honest leaders who will take Bungoma to the next level. “I want to say that we have launched a new party that will cleanse undeserving leaders from the system,” Wamunyinyi said. During the rally, residents urged Wamunyinyi to go for the senatorial seat because of his position in the party. “Join the senatorial race to battle with Wetang’ula. We want to see you in the Senate,” the crowd told Wamunyinyi. Wamunyinyi together with Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu joined DAP-K party after a falling out with Wetang'ula. The two had attempted a coup to remove Wetang'ula as Ford Kenya leader, but they failed. Wamunyinyi said they decided to work with a local party that resonates well with the people. "Every politics is local. That's why we have decided to work with a local party," he said. Last month, Wamunyinyi and Eseli received tens of defectors from various parties with Wetangula’s Ford Kenya the biggest loser. Wamunyinyi said DAP Kenya is the fastest-growing party. "We want to assure that we shall field candidates in all elective seats except the president, which we will leave for Raila Odinga," he said. Wamunyinyi assured aspirants of free and fair nominations, adding that the outfit will field candidates countrywide. "The party is going to be available to receive new members. Our door will be open," the party leader said. Edited by A.N