The closure of Old Port in Mombasa has left thousands of small traders jobless, triggering an outcry from Coast senators. The senators raised the matter in the Senate on Wednesday, saying the port has been partially closed by the Kenya Ports Authority. Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki asked the House to intervene to restore normalcy. He asked the House to summon the concerned authorities to explain why the port has been closed to small vessels, some of which undertake transshipment business. The authorities, Faki said, should outline plans to reopen the port. “This old port used to allow many small vessels that could not go into the main port to dock and discharge goods, some of which were very important to the livelihoods of the people,” he said. Faki said as a result of the closure, small vessels carrying goods for small traders, including second-hand clothes and fish, no longer dock at the port. “What is there now is a consignment of rice that was impounded in 2017. It is still there and it is rotting,” the lawmaker said. Kilifi Governor Steward Madzayo urged the Trade and Transport committees to visit the port to assess the situation. The Senate deputy minority leader said thousands of traders and their families who depend on the port are suffering. “This old port is used to do small business. It is like the big port on the part of KPA. It used to help small traders. Most of the business was to import clothes or food like fish,” said the former judge. Senators Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and Gertrude Musuruve (nominated) said the situation calls for immediate action. “We must do everything to take care of the small business person,” Sakaja said. “There is no need of focusing on big business, huge Japanese fishing trolling lines, yet our small traders are suffering.” Musuruve said, “As a country, we have to see how we can help small businesses to grow. We will be interested to see what is exactly happening there." In 2020, leaders and residents from the Coast protested the government’s order to traders to use the standard gauge railway only to transport cargo from the Port of Mombasa. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya