DP William Ruto has hit back at Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli over his 'unfortunate' remarks during a Universal Health Care event in Mombasa. During the event attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Atwoli drummed up support for ODM party leader Raila Odinga as he trashed Ruto ahead of the August 9 elections. “The remarks by ancient campaign expert Atwoli are completely unnecessary and go against the tenants of democracy," Ruto said. Through his director of communications Hussein Mohamed, Ruto said for Kenyans inflicted with violence and death, including in the context of the election, this is not a laughing matter. "Since Ruto is confident of a win in 2022 elections the usual sore losers want to take him down this path, where winning and losing becomes a life and death affair," he said. He said politicians should not be using suicide as a form of humor. On Monday, Atwoli said that there was nothing called UDA and, "I want to tell those close to Ruto that they should make sure he does not commit suicide after the August 9 general election." But Ruto said the government through the DCI decried the increasing numbers of suicide cases in the country. 483 cases were recorded between April and June 2021. "We understand our competitors cannot comprehend because theirs is a coalition of the elite to maintain the privileged they enjoy at the expense of ordinary Kenyans," he said. "Nonetheless to use suicide as humor in electioneering at a national event is a demonstration of just how far these elite are from the realities and struggles of the Kenyan hustlers. The contempt is mind-blogging." During the Monday event, Atwoli said that in 2017, he told Deputy President that he will not be the president of this country and that he can never bow to him. “We are only three in the this Republic of Kenya. Number one is President Uhuru Kenyatta, then Raila Odinga and I am the third, that’s enough.” Cotu's boss said that the dynamics that were used in 2002 to defeat President Moi’s leadership are different from the 2022 dynamics and that no one should blame Uhuru for supporting Raila. “Lead Mt. Kenya as you led them during BBI,” Atwoli said.