Fresh from her exploits in the Junior Australian Open,  Africa champion Angela Okutoyi has set her sights on the women's futures event next month in Cairo. The country's youngest Kenya Open champion will be using the event in Cairo and another tournament in Italy in April as a build-up for the French Open in May. The teen sensation said work ethic and mentality are some of the lessons learned from her experience in Australia. Okutoyi said the event Down Under was an eye-opener as she was able to interact with some of the world's best players. " My mental fortitude is something I want to work on and improve all facets of my play. I am looking forward to the upcoming events,” she said. Okutoyi's ranking has gone up to 53 up 18 places and she believes she can go further after picking up two wins in Australia. "I believe I can go higher. The more tournaments you play, the better you become and exposure will be vital going forward,” she added. The Africa Under-18 champion is the first Kenyan girl to feature at a Junior Grand Slam since Susan Wakhungu in 1978. Okutoyi defeated Italian qualifier Federica Urgesi in the first round 6-4, 6-7(5), 6-3 to become the first Kenyan girl to record a Junior Grand Slam match-win. She outwitted another qualifier, Zara Larke of Australia in round two 7-6, 5-7, 6-1 to equal the previous best result of a Kenyan junior at a Grand Slam after making it to the third round, where she lost to Serbian Lola Radivojevic 6-2, 6-3. Christian Vitulli held the best result of a Kenyan junior at a Grand Slam when he reached the third round at the US Open Junior in 2005. Vitulli was also the last Kenyan to feature at a Grand Slam back in 2006 before Okutoyi’s debut last month. Okutoyi’s previous career-high was position 60 on January 10. Okutoyi's coach, Thuku Rogoi, said she will resume training next week for the Cairo event and expressed confidence she will do well. "She has the momentum and belief to go all the way and we have three weeks of intense preparation," said Rogoi. Okutoyi was feted for her achievement by Tennis Kenya on Tuesday and tennis legend Paul Wekesa was among those who welcomed her at the Nairobi Club.