The government has put on notice the mushrooming Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) institutions that are operating without accreditation. Vocational and Technical Training Principal Secretary Margaret Mwakima said stern action will be taken against institutions operating illegally. They should follow the right procedure to get registered or face closure. Mwakima said non-accredited institutions were compromising the quality of education and services offered to learners. She spoke during the official opening of the Western regional TVET authority office in Kisumu on Thursday. The PS, who was accompanied by TVETA board chairperson Prof. Florence Indede and TVETA board director-general Dr Kipkirui Langat, said unaccredited institutions were disadvantageous to learners by offering poor quality education. Mwakima called on the institutions to work closely with the regional office to ensure quality standards within the TVET policies. “I want to urge the public to verify the accreditation status of institutions from the relevant offices before making any applications,” she said. The Western region office serves ten counties from Nyanza and Western regions. They include Kisumu, Siaya, Migori, Nyamira, Kisii, Homa Bay, Bungoma, Busia, Vihiga and Kakamega counties. Kipkirui said the region is emerging as an education and training hub with 474 registered TVET institutions which comprises three national polytechnics namely Kisii, Kisumu, and Sigalagala. He said the Western office targets to bring services closer to the people of the region. Kipkirui noted that the authority has inspected and accredited 2,159 institutions countrywide. The authority has also registered and licensed 7,000 trainers and accredited 286 competence-based education and training (CBET) courses. “We are seeking enhanced partnership with all stakeholders to ensure achievement of planned activities aimed at enhancing quality training in TVET institutions,” Kipkirui said. Indede urged accredited institutions to help the board to eradicate the mushrooming of institutions that are not accredited. She said the authority's strategic objectives revolve around promoting access and inclusivity, quality and relevance, governance and management. The authority, Indede said, is keen on mitigating the challenges faced in quality and relevant training in TVET institutions, including issuing of internal certification and non-compliance with the trainers’ qualification framework. The board will also tackle the use of inferior facilities and Infrastructure and hiccups of transitioning of trainees. TVETA is committed to intensifying quality assurance to ensure all the institutions conform to the National regulatory and training standards and that the quality of TVET graduates is not compromised. “The regional office will work with all the stakeholders within the region to ensure improved quality of training within our public and private TVET institutions and foster harmony between the institutions and the community,” Kipkirui said. TVETA authority is a State Corporation established under the Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Act No. 29 of 2013 It was established in 2103 to regulate and coordinate training in the country through the development of standards, accreditation of programs, institutions, and trainers as well as their quality assurance. Indede said the authority has made great strides since its inception in 2014, with the current strategic plan outlining the opening of regional offices as one of the priority areas which is in line with the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 on ensuring reasonable access of services to the public. The chairperson said the office will largely benefit people as it will bring services closer to the people of the Western region and increase efficiency in TVET accreditation.