The 2021 national maize crop production for the short rains is projected to be 2.95 million bags of 90kg. The short rains food and nutrition security assessment for February 2022 says this is 45 - 50 per cent of the five-year average. The assessment indicates that this brings the total 2021 national production to about 33.09 million 90kg bags, which is 15– 20 per cent below the five-year average. Last December, former Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said that maize production for 2021 is expected to drop by 30 per cent. “The average long rain season harvest is usually around 36 million bags of maize, but we are estimating around 28 million bags of maize from the long rains harvest,” he said. Boga said the drop in yield is due to to erratic rains, where most areas received 30 per cent less rains. “Production for the short rains will also be low due to depressed rains in parts of Eastern and Central regions,” he said. The  former PS said the expected harvest for the short rains is usually about seven million bags, but this year, there are estimating around 3.5 million bags. Boga however said that despite the decline, the country will have enough maize until March. “These issues will be factored into the government’s planning this year. We expect imports from Uganda and Tanzania between January and February, but we will keep monitoring the situation and production,” he said. The assessment also shows that maize production is expected to be up to 70 per cent lower in marginal agricultural areas. In addition, maize crop farms across Kenya are estimated to be 50 – 65 per cent below normal. The assessment was undertaken by the Kenya Food Security Steering Group led by the National Drought Management Authority and WFP. It was carried out in counties of Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Tana River, Samburu, Baringo, West Pokot and Laikipia. Others include Embu (Mbeere), Meru (Meru North), Nyeri (Kieni), Kitui, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi (Tharaka), Kajiado, Narok, Taita Taveta, Kwale, Kilifi and Lamu. NDMA said the total maize stocks held by households is below the long-term average. “Stocks held by households are expected to last one to two months compared to three to four months normally. "In Turkana and Samburu counties the stocks will last less one month. However, there were no stocks at the household level in Marsabit,” the assessment read. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)