Retired President Mwai Kibaki’s Party of National Unity has declared support for ODM leader Raila Odinga in his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The party that swept Kibaki to power in 2007 made the declaration on Thursday during its top organ meeting at Bomas of Kenya. PNU is headed by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. Kibaki’s nephew and Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi is also a high ranking member of the outfit. The former Prime Minister was the chief guest at the National Delegates Conference which was also attended by Narc leader Charity Ngilu. The former ruling party is the third party this month to have its NDC ratify a decision to support the ODM chief. Last week Charity Ngilu’s Narc and Kivutha Kibwana’s Muungano endorsed his candidature under the Azimio la Umoja Movement coalition. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party will on Friday also throw its weight behind the Raila, who was until March 9, 2018, Uhuru’s arch political rival. On Thursday, Munya and Muriithi led hundreds of the party’s delegates to endorse Raila, saying PNU stands realistic chances of being part of the next government through Azimio. "The party resolved that PNU joins the Azimio La Umoja Movement for the purpose of 2022 election," part of the resolution said. Raila said ODM and PNU have a history, adding that the country made serious progress in all sectors when the two formations teamed up together under the coalition government. “We are determined to create the political and ideological unity that we require to confront the problems afflicting our people,” Raila said. “Our plan includes rolling out an all-out war on poverty and unemployment in Kenya, tackling healthcare challenges through more hospitals, more well-paid and motivated health workers and health insurance.” Raila also hit at Kenya Kwanza led by Deputy President, accusing them of being part of the country’s problems. “All the Kenya Kwanza principals were in or were associated with the government that in 2003 handed over to Kenyans an economy that was stuck at zero per cent,” he said. PNU also said it will enter into a working relationship with President Kenyatta's ruling Jubilee Party and other like-minded parties. “We have also resolved that the party leader of Jubilee to negotiate on behalf of PNU in Azimio La Umoja negotiations,” Munya said. PNU settled on Munya to represent the party’s interests at the yet to be created Azimio coordination board whose membership will be drawn from political parties under the coalition. The NDC also released Ndiritu to serve at Raila Odinga Presidential Campaign board where he was appointed as the national chairperson. The meeting comes ahead of joint NDCs by the Orange party and ruling Jubilee Party. ODM will have its delegates meeting on Saturday at Kasarani gymnasium, while Uhuru’s Jubilee will have a two-day NDC on Friday and Saturday at Kenyatta International Convention Centre.  (edited by Amol Awuor)