Last Sunday, the Kenyan Premier League match between record champions Gor Mahia and bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets aborted after degenerating into chaos. A charged crowd broke through the human barrier that stewards and policemen had formed inside the stadium and barged straight into the field at the height of the volatile match. Trouble began when one of the stewards picked up a fight with a fan as the match wore on. The fan is said to have sneaked into the stadium without paying. The ugly turn of events prompted a storm of protests at the stands as enraged fans sprang to their feet and charged at the steward, menacingly baying for his blood as he scampered for safety. A few moments later, fans, stewards, and a mortley of law enforcers — who had been bused in to quell the riot — got embroiled in a vicious battle right at the centre of the pitch as stunned players and match officials melted in fear. The viral photo of a mean-looking female fan carrying a big stone while charging towards the scene of confrontation aptly captures the moment. Her dramatic exploits were vividly filmed by the sharp lens of a hawk-eyed photographer who was well positioned to document the freak of fate. Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier has since come out to condemn the incident and promised to bring the perpetrators of the violence to book. It was not the first time Gor Mahia fans were turning guns on their own stewards. A replication of the scenario played out during their league match against Bidco United earlier in January. It beats logic for a fan to gate-crash matches at a time Kenyan clubs are experiencing dire financial constraints. Ironically, the same fans are usually the first ones to censure the management for failing to offset dues owed to players and coaches. On the other hand, Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards' stewards must now fling off their infamous habit of manhandling fans and journalists during league matches. It's also high time the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee addressed this issue once and for all. I have previously voiced my concerns with the committee's competitions secretary, Ali Amour, who pledged firm action. That was after I fell victim to circumstances during a league match pitting AFC Leopards against Bidco United at Nyayo Stadium in January. After the full-time whistle, as I made my way into the field for a postmatch interview with the gaffers, four stewards — visibly high on substance — blocked my path even after I had made my identity clear. I had to unleash the beast in me to break through the barrier. I encountered the same fate during a match involving Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani where it took me about one hour to gain entry after being shoved from one gate to another by insensitive stewards who said they cared less about my identification card. Any form of violence and harassment is detrimental to the growth of local football. Disputes arising during matches must be handled with a lot of civility and sobriety.