Felix Odiwuor, alias Jalang'o, officially quit his radio job at Kiss FM yesterday to focus on his political campaigns. This comes after the Media Council of Kenya asked active journalists and media personalities eyeing political seats in the August General Election to tender their resignations from their stations. Speaking to Word Is, Jalas said some decisions are hard to make but he has to push his dreams. "Leaving my colleagues here is not my wish but dreams come and you have to push them. And so here we are. Ready for the next chapter," he said. He will be vying for the Lang'ata parliamentary seat via the Azimio party. Jalang'o said joining politics is been one of the hardest decisions he has ever made. "Some people have encouraged me while others don't," he said. "My wife did not want to hear anything about politics. People who I have worked with in the corporate world don't want me to join politics. They don't even want to hear about it. They are asking why yet we are doing well. But the thing is, if you have a dream, why not?" Jalang'o said he is aware that politics is not a joke; it's risky and dirty. Asked if people ask for money from him, he said campaigns are expensive. "Coz every meeting you go and speak to people and tell them what you can do for them, people are hungry out here. The first thing will be, 'Mhesh, unatuacha aje? Give us something,'" he said, adding that he understands they spent their time. "That's not bribing but is a form of appreciation after spending time with them. Some closed their jobs just to come and be with you," he said. "Marketing and billboards are expensive, merchandise is expensive." While bidding goodbye to his fans and the company as well, Jalas thanked the company's CEO, Patrick Quarcoo, for always believing in his dreams. "Today I mark the end of this amazing place. I want to say a few things to the boss and CEO of Radio Africa for always being a friend and opening doors for me even when things look really dark on my side," he said, adding that he will never forget he gave him his first chance in radio. "You did it again and I know you can do it anytime for me. That is why you made me and accepted that contract to sound the way it was." Jalas also thanked Radio Africa's MD Martin Khafafa for always having a listening ear for him. "And our HR, who have supported this journey. I got to interact with the best HR." Jalas also spoke highly about his co-host for being an inspiring person in the two years they worked together. "Working with Kamene is amazing. She is hardworking and fun to deal with," he said. "We have made one of the biggest collaborations despite people doubting us. I really appreciate her work ethic and have a lot to learn from her. She is bold and one who knows what she wants."