Also known as Kiwano, thorn melon, as many Kenyans call it, is an exotic fruit that originates from Central and South of Africa. You know a Kiwano is ready to eat when the skin is bright golden orange. Kiwano can be consumed both unripe (green colour) and fully ripe. When unripe, it tastes like a blend of banana, lime, cucumber and melon, while the taste of ripe fruit resembles that of a cucumber. Packed with vitamins and minerals, the fruit is also highly packed with proteins which positively impacts one’s health. Research published in the International Journal of Biological Innovation shows that the fruit not only helps cancer patients but also may help in curing early diabetes and promotes good brain and heart health. Full of antioxidants, the fruit helps to keep the blood vessels and nerves healthy. Vitamin  E  also helps to neutralize the damaging free radicals that can cause chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. It flushes out the carcinogenic substances from the body. Its seeds contain a number of fatty acids including linoleic acid and oleic acid. Oleic acid, also found in olive oil, is thought to help in lowering blood pressure. Zinc and iron help in repairing wounds and producing blood cells and managing haemoglobin levels in the blood. The fruit contains 80 per cent water content which helps remove harmful substances from your body. Lower in calories, loaded with dietary fibres, vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium as well as iron. The nutrient content in this exotic fruit helps our body to get the necessary energy in our journey towards weight loss. Containing high amounts of magnesium, the fruit is said to have a positive impact on individuals suffering from diabetes. Magnesium helps to manage blood sugar levels among people with diabetes and it improves food absorption in our bodies, which is needed by people with diabetes. The zinc helps by aiding the production of protein, normal carbohydrate metabolic process and the insulin discharge The zinc helps by aiding the production of protein, normal carbohydrate metabolic process and insulin discharge. The fruit is rich in different tocopherol variants that help in keeping the mind fresh and boost cognitive function. Its Vitamin E content helps to slow down the onset of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. It also contains sodium, which helps electrolytes in the body conduct nerve signals and regulates fluid balance in the brain. Its Vitamin A helps to boost eye health. Since Vitamin A is a kind of carotenoid with antioxidant properties, it prevents macular degeneration and also eliminates the free radicals that lead to eye irritation and various eye problems, such as cataracts helping in the proper function of the retina. A Kiwano a day, keeps the therapist away. The fruit helps regulate the stress hormones such as adrenaline in the human body. Kiwano has a good amount of zinc, a  mineral that is highly beneficial in improving our metabolic processes. Kiwano  has  a  high  content  of  beta-carotene  antioxidant which helps in improving the immune system and protecting the body from the onset of any diseases Dietary fibres in the fruit help improve the digestion process and regulate bowel movement, hence a healthy digestive system. The gelatinous nature of the fruit tends to reduce constipation, and helps counter cramping and bloating. It  also  aids  in  treating serious  conditions  such  as  gastric ulcers  and  colon cancer The heart is also a muscle,  the fruit’s high potassium and Vitamin D content, is extremely beneficial for improving our muscle health. Vitamin D helps to improve the calcium absorption process, thereby strengthening our muscles. Its calcium helps to treat and prevent bone-related issues such as osteoporosis and bone repair.