The top organ of Party of National Unity has given the outfit the green light to join the expected Azimio La Umoja-Jubilee coalition. PNU called a special National Executive Committee meeting on Thursday and cleared the way for the party to be part of the coalition being spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The party had issued a noticed signed by secretary general John Anunda and chairman David Kamau, saying the meeting was scheduled for Thursday at the party headquarters on Musa Gitau Road off Waiyaki Way. The meeting came a day after Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and Laikipia Governor and Raila's presidential campaign secretariat chairman Nderitu Muriithi met to cement their relationship ahead of deal with Raila. Munya has been touted as a strong contender for the running mate position in the Raila camp. He has shelved his Meru governor election ambitions and instead opted to remain in the Cabinet. He did not resign by the February 9, the last day public officers wanting to contest were required to resign, according regulations by the electoral commission. "I have been reflecting on my political journey and talking to my supporters and looking at the current situation and I have come to the conclusion that at this point in time, the best strategic decision I can make is not to vie for the position in the coming election," Munya stated. The PNU meeting came as aspirants seeking its ticket expressed fears of bungled nominations if they are lumped together in joint primaries with Jubille inside Azimio. Speaking at a media briefing on Wednesday, Munya affirmed his support for Azimio movement saying it will carry the vision of the country moving forward. Munya, Muriithi and their supporters in the Mt Kenya region have been tussling over PNU’s control. Munya was the PNU party leader until his appointment into the Cabinet by President Uhuru Kenyatta after losing the Meru governor position to Kiraitu Murungi. He was forced to step down as PNU leader to take over the state job in accordance with the law. Munya was elected PNU leader in October 2016 during the National Delegates Conference. Muriithi on the other hand is expected to launch his Laikipia governor re-election campaign on a PNU ticket on Sunday. Muriithi has urged other political parties to affiliate with Azimio La Umoja to build a strong coalition.