Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday took to his social media handles to criticise the Elections (Amendment) Bill, 2022, that was presented at the National Assembly on Wednesday. The Bill by National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya seeks to introduce a raft of amendments among them, legalisation of manual transmission of presidential elections results. The DP, seemingly irked by the Bill, used his social platforms to condemn the Bill terming it "evil" adding that "it must fail". While both camps of the political divide have criticized the Bill, the DP stated boldly that proponents of the Bill seek to install a puppet presidency by force. He argued that those who fronted the Bill are after forcing ODM leader Raila Odinga to the presidency. "The desperate efforts to install project kitendawili (Raila) by forceful, illegal, undemocratic and unconstitutional means portends a troubling future for Kenya, its democracy, the rule of law, freedom of its citizens and, ultimately, everyone's well-being." The Star has established that the DP was the first person to root for live transmission of elections results. It is not long ago. In 2017, ahead of the repeat presidential elections, he spoke publicly about Jubilee plans to amend the Elections Act to allow for the manual transmission of results. The DP spoke, after a Jubilee parliamentary group meeting that he said ratified the proposal. Ruto said there was a need to amend the election act so that when the electronic transmission of results fails, the manual method comes in handy. "Tutabadilisha sheria kuhakikisha ya Kwamba hakuna koti inapendua sheria bila ya Kuhesabu Kura ya wananchi. Haiwezekani.  Wakati transmission inafanyika electronically pia manual transmission inaendelea. Moja ikikosekana, ingine iko tayarai," the DP said. Here is the video courtesy of NTV: Loosely translated to: "We will change the law to ensure that no court overturns the will of the people without counting the votes cast by the people of Kenya. It is not possible. When live streaming of results is on course, manual transmission should go on concurrently. When one method of transmission fails, the other one becomes applicable". What changed?