At 10.30am on August 25, 2020, Kiti Nyale was calling out for passengers to board his matatu at GPO Posta in Mombasa like any other day. Minutes later he found himself in the back of a police Land Cruiser, next to a stranger who was vehemently defending him. “I was confused. I did not know why I was bundled into the Land Cruiser and why the stranger was adamant that I was innocent and was not part of them,” Nyale recalled. He later learnt that he had been arrested for allegedly taking part in a demonstration that had been outlawed. It was the beginning of an 18-month nightmare for the matatu conductor who plies the Tudor-Docks route. On February 21 this year, he was sentenced to six months probation. “I did not know what was going on. I was from Tudor heading to Docks and was at that time calling for passengers at Posta where we had dropped some passengers,” Nyale told the Star on Friday. He recalled seeing a police vehicle parked outside Bima Towers but never imagined he would be bundled into it minutes later. “I saw people running. Before I could gather what was happening, I suddenly felt strong hands lift me up,” Nyale said. He then saw his matatu partner, the driver, speed off. “Inside the Land Cruiser, I later learnt that the stranger defending me was Otieno Obiero, a human rights defender. He was the one who explained to me that they have been arrested for protesting the theft of Covid funds,” Nyale said. He was in his conductor uniform when he was arrested, together with five human rights activists. They were taken to Central police station where they were processed before being taken to the Mombasa Municipal Court. At the court, they were charged with three counts of participating in a prohibited gathering, failing to keep social distance and not wearing a face mask. Nyale was charged together with Muhuri’s Francis Auma, Haki Kenya’s Nato Michael, Agenda Kenya’s Otieno Obiero and Tirus Makumi, and Lengo Organisation’s Lucas Fondo. They denied the charges and were each slapped with Sh20,000 bond. “It was like a knife had been driven through my stomach. Where would I get Sh20,000? That was my budget for three months in the house,”  Nyale said. The 41-year-old father of five had never been arrested before. It was his first time and he did not know what to expect. Luckily, human rights organisations came to his rescue and paid the bond for him, taking him as one of their own. Nyale said since his arrest, he has become more aloof and his social life disrupted. “My family depends on me to survive. If I do not go out and look for money, they do not eat. I never worked normally since then. My output took a negative turn and even my partners never wanted to work with me on the squads,” he said. Nyale said during court days, his family would most of the time sleep hungry because a court day would waste his whole day, and they live from hand to mouth. The worst moment, he said, was when they were found guilty of participating in a prohibited gathering and failing to keep social distance, by magistrate Rita Amwayi on February 4 this year. “Then she said she would sentence us on February 21, meaning we had 17 days to wait. During that period, all manner of thoughts came to me, thinking I would be jailed for a long time or even life. I thought I would never see my family again,” Nyale said. He said his wife, who prayed for him, was his main source of strength. “We have been sentenced to six months probation but I'm still not at peace,” Nyale said. Ajenda Kenya’s Makumi, 25, was supposed to have graduated from the Technical University of Mombasa in 2020 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Development Studies. However, his arrest and subsequent arraignment meant he had to miss a lot of classes and crucial examinations. “Sometimes I had to skip some papers so I could attend court when my fellow classmates were doing exams,” Makumi said. He said he will be graduating at the end of this year. “When I informed my parents that we had been found guilty and that we would be sentenced, they took it personal," Makumi said. “They scolded me saying I am fighting the government. But I explained myself to them and they accepted, but they were not convinced.” On February 21, the day of sentencing, Makumi was apprehensive. “The apprehension was mixed with excitement at the same time. I was with my colleagues who were so much charged that I forgot it was my fate on the line. This excitement made me arrive late in Court No.12,” he said. By the time Makumi arrived, magistrate Amwayi had already issued a warrant of arrest against him and Fondo, who also had yet to arrive when the sentencing was being delivered. “I was almost shrinking when I arrived at the court. My colleagues were scolding me for being late,” he said. When the others left the court, he and Fondo, who had by that time arrived, were not allowed to leave the court premises. “I felt like I had already started serving my sentence and at the same time fearful of what the magistrate would do to us next,” Makumi said. However, their lawyer mitigated on their behalf and the arrest warrant was lifted. Makumi said that during the 17 days they were waiting for the sentence, he made calls to almost everyone on his phone’s contact list, including his landlord, telling them he will be jailed. He told his family, close friends and neighbours to be visiting him in jail once or twice a week. Auma, the Muhuri rapid response officer who has been in the human rights defending business for 17 years now, thought he had seen it all and that nothing would shake him. However, this judgment and sentencing was different for him. “This was the most difficult time in my entire career. The 17-day period while waiting for the sentencing after being found guilty was mental torture,” said Auma. He said being found guilty for doing what is right is the most difficult thing one can undergo. “The anxiousness about what will happen to my family, to my businesses, how my friends and co-workers view me, was the most hurting thing to me,” Auma said. On February 20, the eve of the sentencing day, he had handed over all his ATM cards to his wife and even given her all his PIN numbers. “I was sure I was never going to sleep in my house again. No food that I ate was sweet. They all felt tasteless and bad,” Auma said. “I was never satisfied after eating any food, yet I never felt hungry. It was mental torture.” He said he never gathered the courage to tell his parents, knowing it would have killed them with anxiety and sorrow. “Within two weeks, I had lost almost seven kilos. That is when I knew who my true friends were because some had already started disassociating themselves with me,” Auma said. “Those who shook your hands whenever you met now started waving at you from afar, not wanting to be anywhere near you.” He said the stigma associated with being found guilty of an offence by the court and potentially being an inmate is real. “I feel like whenever one is found guilty, the court should just sentence them there and then instead of taking them through the mental torture I underwent,” Auma said. Auma, however, said this will not stop them from defending human rights. Makumi added, “We believe what we were doing was a public interest thing and we should not be curtailed. This freedom of assembly, freedom of picketing is a right. The sentencing was harsh on us.”