Sports Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed, has urged Kenyan athletes to launch successful careers using lessons gleaned from the country's past experiences at global events. Amina made the remarks at the conclusion of a three-day joint strategic retreat in Naivasha over the weekend, that brought together the National Olympics Committee of Kenya and the Ministry of Sports, Culture and Heritage. The meeting was called to develop the road map towards the forthcoming Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games and the Africa Youth Games set for July and September respectively. “At the Naivasha retreat, we were able to develop a work plan which became our implementation template. We can all agree that as a result of this, we set a high bar for ourselves,” said the CS in a statement read on her behalf by the Secretary of Administration, State Department for Sports Ms. Josephine Onunga. “We have the advantage and opportunity to improve on the policies in place that provided previous success hence guarantee even better subsequent games such as the Commonwealth and Youth Games this year,” said Amina. The CS further termed sports as an appropriate tool that can be used effectively to unify the country, especially during this volatile electioneering period. “We can only achieve the best by hosting a well-prepared Team Kenya which will bring us national pride.” The workshop sought to use lessons learned from Tokyo 2020, the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth, and Algiers 2018 African Youth Games to inform a clear road map with targets, responsibilities, and actions for all stakeholders. It also reviewed the preparations for the Commonwealth, African Youth Games, Team Kenya as well as the budgeting and Action Plan. Chef De Mission (CDM) of the Commonwealth Games, John Ogolla cited the disciplines, qualification pathway, and key deadlines that stakeholders need to be adhered to. “NOC-K has started preparations for the Games in collaboration with national federations through tracking qualifications, applications of grants, and doing the necessary documentation,” said Ogolla. The Tokyo 2020 Team Kenya media liaisons led by Elias Makori highlighted the importance of media training in breaking language barriers that exist at global shows. The medical team led by the Tokyo 2020 chief medical officer, Carole Okoth underlined the importance of medical management, anti-doping, Covid-19 experiences, and acclimatization. Day two and three of the retreat saw the development of the action plan on the road towards Birmingham 2022 and Cairo 2022. 