The government has said all contractors with ongoing state projects must complete them by June. Garissa county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said President Uhuru Kenyatta has issued a directive to have the projects delivered on time. He said contractors who lack the capacity to complete projects risk being blacklisted. Cherutich spoke on Thursday after leading the Garissa Development Implementation and Coordination Committee on an inspection tour of the Garissa University hostel. He said the hostel that was initially supposed to accommodate 750 students was later redesigned to accommodate 992 students. The Sh531 million project is expected to be completed by next month. “We want to appeal to local contractors who have been awarded important projects by the government, to work extra hard and complete the projects on time,” he said. Cherutich said they will ensure there is value for every coin spent on government projects. “We have incidents where a contractor has been paid over 50 per cent but has delivered very little. Some of them either do not have the capacity or deliberately fail to do the job,” Cherutich said. The county commissioner said it is the responsibility of the county development committee to ensure that all state projects are not only completed on time but according to the specifications. Garissa University registrar in charge of administration and planning Abdulrahman Hamo said over 1,200 students lack accommodation. Hamo said the university has over 2,200 students and can only accommodate 760. “About 1,200 students still require accommodation but we have advised them to seek non residence accommodation services as we work to complete the hostel,” Hamo said. He said the project will be a relief for both students and the management. Cherutich said once completed the hostel will address the acute shortage of accommodation experienced in the university. “We hope to have more students comfortably accommodated in the university,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)