ODM party leader Raila Odinga now says deputy president William Ruto must apologize for saying DRC has no cow. Raila in a statement on Wednesday said the Ruto attack of DRC could light up a diplomatic tiff that is not good for Kenya. "Ruto's attack on DRC is a manifestation of a reckless lack of vision and foresight; a pathetic failure to see where opportunities abound for Kenya, DRC produces," Raila said. Raila further expressed his disappointment on Ruto's remarks saying he has watered down the diplomatic gains the country is making. "As a person who has worked diligently alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta in deepening the ties that bind our two countries, I have been very disturbed and deeply disappointed by utterances of deputy president William Ruto that poured scorn in an otherwise friendly and enterprising nation that also holds  Kenya in high esteem," he said. On Monday, William Ruto told residents of Nyeri, that there was a big market for their dairy produce in DR Congo - and appeared to suggest that there were no cattle in that country. “We have a market in DR Congo…these people who are singers… These people have a population of about 90 million but they don’t own any cow," he said in Swahili - a clip of which has been widely shared. The remarks have not gone down well in DR Congo, with even some politicians and journalists describing them as disrespectful as he also appears to be disparaging the Congolese as lazy people who only know how to sing. Kenya responded Kenyan ambassador to Congo George Masafu has assured the Congolese nation of a respectful relationship. The DP's comment triggered reactions from the business community and the general public in Congo. "The Kenya Embassy wishes to reiterate that the people of Kenya share a deep and respectful historical relationship with the government and people of DRC," ambassador Masafu said. "Kenya is confident that these relations will be entrenched through government to government frameworks and people to people partnerships that have built in the past." Senator Francine Muyumba took to Twitter and termed the remarks an “insult” and “unacceptable” and asked Mr Ruto to withdraw the statement. “Mr Vice President William Ruto, this is really unacceptable, with all due respect there is a need to withdraw this statement If DRC did not have a single cow how could Kenya sign economic deals with DRC, Equity Bank is currently making money in Congo, this is an insult," Muyumba tweeted.