A Kirinyaga man detained for killing a neighbour who stole avocados worth Sh100 from his farm will be charged on Monday with murder. Haniel Maina Gachoki, 36, who was arrested early this month will be charged for killing 52-year-old Evans Muchira Muthike. Gachoki was arraigned on Friday morning before Kerugoya chief magistrate Alex Ithuku where the miscellaneous file was closed and the court was informed that the charge sheet was ready. Gachoki’s lawyer Danstan Omari said his client was in court so that the miscellaneous file could be closed to enable him take plea before the High Court. Ithuku closed the file and the prosecution will now present him before the High Court on Monday to answer to the charge of murder. A mental assessment has already been done on him which says he is fit to stand trial. According to the charge sheet it is alleged that on January 27, 2022 at Kiamutugu village in Kirinyaga East, Gachoki murdered Evans Muchira Muthike. According to police reports, it is alleged that someone used to steal avocados from Gachokis farm and one day his wife saw the deceased on top of their avocado tree. It is alleged that when Muthike (deceased) saw the wife he jumped down from the tree and ran away. Gachoki’s wife reported the incident to him saying that it was one of their neighbours who had been stealing their avocados. The suspect took matters into his own hands and days later when he bumped into the deceased, he brought him to his home and asked his wife to identify him. Gachoki then beat up the deceased leaving him with serious injuries. He then reported himself at the police station saying he had beat up Mithike. He was apprehended with a view of being charged with assault causing grievous harm. However, Mithike died three days later due to the injuries inflicted by Gachoki. Police then changed the offence to murder and presented him in court where they sought for his detention as they completed investigations. The court allowed that he be detained for ten days to allow police to complete investigations. The case will be mentioned on Monday, February 21 when he will be charged with murder. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)