Former Football Kenya Federation president, Sam Nyamweya, has warned Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed that the disqualification of Harambee Starlets from the Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers could blot her otherwise illustrious career. In a statement released on Thursday, Nyamweya also called on the CS to lay the ground for free and fair FKF elections. “I am compelled and rightly so to address the Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed on matters of national importance within the football landscape and its attendant ecosystem,” wrote Nyamweya. “The disqualification of our gallant girls from participating in the AWCON qualifier match against the Crested Cranes of Uganda... will be a dark mark on your otherwise illustrious career and distinguished service as a Cabinet Secretary for Sports.” Nyamweya questioned why action had not been taken against Barry Otieno, CEO of the disbanded national governing body after his communication to CAf led to Starlets' woes. “The irony of it is that Barry Otieno is walking scot-free and celebrating his achievement in a high voltage power politics game between the disbanded FKF and the FKF Caretaker Committee,” he observed. Nyamweya fell short of attributing Harambee Starlets' debacle to the FKF Caretaker Committee whom he accused of failing to follow the right procedure in addressing the whole issue. “The failure by FKF Caretaker Committee to write to CAF at least 30 days before the scheduled first leg match on February 17, which is a standard and basic procedure when playing international matches, opened a loophole for malicious exploitation,” said Nyamweya. “The committee has been in office for three months and save for restarting the top tier football leagues and meeting the expenses of the match officials, there is basically nothing to celebrate them for.” Nyamweya said the recent developments were a clear indication that both Fifa and Caf were yet to recognise the FKF Caretaker Committee and questioned the fate of the leagues run by FKF. “What is the fate of the FKF Cup competition whose winner is expected to represent Kenya in a Caf competition?” he asked. Nyamweya said the role and input of Fifa on the football landscape and ecosystem cannot be underestimated, adding their hold on the international platform is firmly in their hands. Nyamweya attributed the current challenges to the 'flawed and non-inclusive' FKF Elections of February 2016 and a repeat of the same in 2020.