Authorities in Kwale have raised concern over the low uptake of Covid-19 vaccines. This follows a low record of people captured during the last 10 days of mass vaccination. The county had targeted to vaccinate at least 56, 000 people within the duration. But according to county commissioner Gideon Oyagi, less than 8,000 individuals had been vaccinated by Friday. "We are worried that out of the given target we have only vaccinated a few," he said. Oyagi spoke at Kwale Hospital in Matuga on Friday while leading the Covid-19 vaccines campaign awareness and official launch of the second round of mass drive vaccination programme. Nationwide, the Ministry of Health targets to vaccinate one million Kenyans per day, to increase the number of the vaccinated population. Oyagi urged residents to take advantage of the additional seven days of the programme and come out for the jabs. He said the virus is changing to many variants which are lethal, warning that the results would be catastrophic for the unvaccinated individuals. In Kwale, many residents have been reluctant to get the vaccines because of superstitions revolving around the jabs. Some believe their blood will clot, others think they will turn into zombies while others claim it will make them impotent. The rest fear how the jabs will react in them after hearing colleagues complain of headache and fever. However, Oyagi assured the residents that the Covid jabs are safe and effective in battling the disease. He urged people to have their complete doses and go for booster doses for better immunity against the virus. The administrator warned residents to shun propaganda and take advise from the Ministry of Health. He said enough vaccines are available in all the health facilities authorised by the government to issue the jabs. "Let's take the vaccines in plenty within this period and moving forward. The doses are found in the outlined private and public health centers," he added. Oyagi said as people should adhere to the public health directive of wearing masks, sanitising and observing social distance even after getting the vaccines. He said good hygiene has not only helped slow down the virus infection but improved the general health of Kenyans. The administrator ordered chiefs, ward and village administrators to begin door-to-door campaigns to educate residents on the importance of vaccination. Governor Salim Mvurya who co-chaired the meeting said the Covid-19 vaccines uptake at the county was at 11 per cent. He said it was still too low asking residents to take the mass vaccination campaign seriously, terming it critical in opening the county's economy. "The vaccinations will give us assurance of the future economy because we will be able to conduct business safely when everyone is vaccinated," he said. Mvurya told the residents to go for their jabs early enough to lessen the level of infection's severity and avoid hospitalisations. The governor said in the past few months the county has managed to test 14,774 sample sizes, out of which 1,314 tested positive. He however said there was no patient admitted at the Msambweni Covid-19 unit and the infection rate was minimal. Meanwhile, religious leaders and non-government organisations have moved forward to campaign for mass vaccination exercises. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)