Nondies and Impala clash Saturday afternoon in a relegation six-pointer at the Ngong Racecourse as the battle for Kenya Cup survival hots up. The two giants of Kenyan rugby, who have a combined have 27 Kenya Cup titles in their trophy cabinets, know that the loser of Saturday's crunch showdown could be relegated if other results don't go their way. Both clubs are placed at the bottom of the table with 11 points in what has been a disappointing season for the Ngong road clubs, who had lofty aspirations of winning the league title. The two sides have won just two matches apiece out of nine and with the stakes raised this high, it promises to be a riveting encounter. Buoyed by their hard-fought 12-0 win over Mwamba last weekend, Willis Ojal's Nondies will be aiming to get the better of their neighbours and winning the battle up front with skipper Fidel 'Baboon' Oloo leading from the front alongside Ian Njenga, Henry Fulbright and Brian Amaitsa in the forwards. Ian Mumwbani, Derrick Mayar and Samuel Morita will be facing their former club and will be the key men in the backs alongside Kelvin Kanyiri. Ojal has asked his charges to go all out and win the match. "The players know what's at stake. It's been a tough season but we have one chance to save our season," said Ojal. In their last outing last weekend, Impala lost 17-12 to Homeboyz and head coach Oscar Osir will go for the tried and tested. Sammy Oliech earns a second start at fullback where he will be joined by wingers Alvin Marube and Quinto Oongo (skipper). Osir has also retained a midfield partnership of Israel Soi and Anthony Nyandigisi. Dennis Juma is at scrum-half while Martin Juma has been introduced at flyhalf in the absence of Johnson Waiganjo. The back row has Elkeans Musonye, Billy Arigi and Paul Mutsami. Davis Makori and Tyson Okoth are in the second row while Emmanuel Ochieng, Discent Ochieng and Henry Rono will lead the side. In other fixtures, Nakuru — who are also not safe — make the short trip to the capital to face Quins at the RFUEA while Homeboyz travel to western Kenya to face leaders Kabras. Champions KCB are away at Strathmore Leos as Menengai Oilers host Blak Blad in Nakuru.