President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday responded to claims by Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders led by deputy president William Ruto that he is fronting his Handshake partner Raila Odinga for the top seat. The President who spoke in Mombasa admitted that indeed he has one vote but said he has also a right to decide on who he will back. "I have one vote, yes, the way people have been saying outside there. But even if it is one vote, I have a right to choose who I will vote for because I am also a Kenyan," Uhuru said. He added: "Sina project ya mtu mimi… I am looking at them and I am not talking..what's the need of talking back at them when you are working?" he posed. At the same time, Uhuru stated the time for politics is officially here and told those who have been politicking since 2017  to brace for his entry. He used an analogy of a marathon yet again to say that those who have been running should now ready themselves for those who have been working. "Sisi an akina Joho hapa sasa wakati wa kuingia umefika, hii ni wakati was siasa," he said. This loosely translates to: " We and the likes of Joho are now ready to join politics, this is time for politics". He added: "“Time for politics has come and you are going to hear from us. I had told you before that this is a marathon, but they did not listen". The Head of State said he has been ignoring his critics to focus on the development projects that he was elected on to implement. In an apparent attack at Ruto, Uhuru accused some officials of neglecting their mandate to focus on politics. Ruto and his allies have been accusing the President of being a dishonest man. In an earlier address, Uhuru slammed politicians for continuously faulting his administration over performance. The Head of State said Kenya has made strides in the deliverance of key government promises, including quality health care services to its citizens. "We are working. Work is not done in political rallies. It is done in offices," said Uhuru during the official opening of the Health Workforce Conference at Sarova Whitesands Mombasa. Edited by B.Marita