Gor Mahia skipper Philemon Otieno reckons they possess the magic wand to turn tables on leaders Kakamega Homeboyz in their bid to reclaim the Kenyan Premier League title they last won in 2019. The record Kenyan champions will flex muscles with coastal side Bandari in their next league encounter at Mbaraki Stadium on February 27 and Otieno holds on to the conviction they can scoop maximum points to close in on Homeboyz. Gor kicked off the season on a high note and took command of the proceedings at the initial stages only to fizzle out and slump down the standings as the competition wore on. They currently place fifth on the log with 30 points — seven adrift of Homeboyz — but Otieno insists they are not quacking in the boots over the gap which he describes as 'too narrow'. “The gap between us and Homeboyz is narrow and cannot cause us sleepless nights. This is football and it's still too early in the day for anyone to start celebrating,” said Otieno. And despite an overhaul of the technical bench that saw German gaffer Andreas Spier replace Briton Mark Harrison as head coach, Otieno is convinced the team can adapt fast enough to the new philosophy. “Changes in the technical bench are normal in football and we have good players in the squad who can adapt quickly to new concepts,” said Otieno. Spier seems to have turned around the dwindling fortunes after presiding over back-to-back victories since he took the reigns. His first task in the dugout saw them exact revenge on Posta Rangers with an emphatic 3-1 win. He then proceeded to lead the side to a 1-0 win over bottom-placed Vihiga Bullets at Moi Stadium, Kasarani a week later. “We have won two matches under Spier and that's a clear indication that we are experiencing a smooth transition,” said Otieno. The seasoned fullback, who has transitioned into a defensive midfielder says he is comfortable in his new role. He was thrown into the deep end by former tactician Harrison after dependable defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo absconded duty. Otieno says K'Ogalo's management has swung into action to quell the simmering disquiet that had left squad members disoriented and demoralized after going for some time without salaries. “We thank the management for moving fast to address the challenges that have bedeviled the club in recent months. The house is now in order and the players are now focused on delivering the title," concluded Otieno.