Youths and university students from Seme have called on the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate alleged loss of Sh28 million meant for bursaries. The money from CDF was flagged in a report by the Auditor-GeneraL Nancy Gathungu. The students and youths said they were deeply saddened by the Auditor General's report . Led by their leader Samuel Odero, the students questioned the disbursement of Sh28 million bursaries without supporting minutes and clear criteria. Gathungu also questioned the expenditure of Sh 1.9 million in sports projects. According to the report, supporting documents such as requisition, inspections and acceptance committee report, stores records for receiving, recording, issuing out goods and type of items purchased were not provided. Odero over the weekend demanded that officials in charge of bursaries in Seme subcounty step aside with immediate effect for investigations into the matter to start. He also demanded that persons in-charge of the CDF sports committee give way for investigations. Odero stated that they want the matter swiftly investigated and culprits brought to book. “People found guilty of stealing public funds meant for students of Seme (bursary)and for sports must be arrested and charged in a court of  law”, he said. The youths also called upon the fund's patron and area Member of Parliament Dr James Nyikal to take full responsibility in the alleged matter. “We as youths from Seme constituency give a seven days notice to the bursary and sports CDF committee in Seme to resign with immediate effect.Failure to do so we will call for a mother of all demonstrations",he warned. His counterpart Irene Ongaro stated that according to the CDF Audit summary  for 2016-17 Sh 164.7 million was approved and budgeted for while the actual expenditure was 131.8million. "Where is the 32.9 million?"she posed Ongaro continued: “According to the summary audit of 2017-18 the approved budget was Sh132.3 million but the actual expenditure was Sh 72.4 million, where is the Sh 59.9 million we need to know where this money is”, she said. Ochola Collins challenged officers within the CDF fraternity to explain how they are using government funds in relation to projects within the sub county. “It comes out clearly that this is one of the reasons why our students are not getting bursaries because the funds supposed to be given are not prudently used,"he said. Ochola added that they know their MP Nyikal wants to go for another term and urged him to explain to the people of Seme subcounty what he knows in relation to the fund. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)