Deputy President William Ruto will no longer be contributing to church harambees and other fundraising events, at least during the elctioneering period. Speaking at a church service in Emuhaya, Vihiga county, the DP said he has temporarily halted the program until the end of the August 9, elections. The move is influenced by the Elections Act which bars politicians from contributing to fundraising activities after the gazettement of the election date. "I have heard about your plan for the construction of your church. I know you guys when you see me you remember that I am a man who builds churches. "Today we will not be contributing to the church building because the elections law does not allow it. But once the exercise is over, I commit myself that we will come back and ensure the completion of the church is done," he said. The Elections Act 2011 prohibits anyone aspiring for political office from participating in a fundraising eight months before the election. This applies to all levels of office from the president, governor, senator, MP, women representative to the MCA seat. Section 26 of the Elections Act provides that a person may be disqualified if he or she directly or indirectly participates in any manner in public fundraising or Harambee within eight months to a general election or during an election period. In December last year, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chair Wafula Chebukati warned that any aspirant who violates the directive risk being disqualified. “Pursuant thereof, aspirants cannot participate in fundraising either by themselves or proxies within eight months to the election,” Chebukati said. The IEBC chair adding that the prohibition includes participation, either by attendance or contribution. “The import is to curb aspirants from influencing voters by donating funds or money for support,” Chebukati added. The DP has been known to be generous when it comes to contributing to churches. He is one of the leaders known for contributing to many fundraisers across the country.