The Kirinyaga governor race is steadily gaining momentum with more entrants jostling to succeed Governor Anne Waiguru. The latest entrant is former Mwea MP Peter Gitau who will face his competitors on Party of National Unity ticket. He served Mwea for two terms from 2007 to 2017. On Saturday Gitau criss-crossed the county on a mission to popularise his bid. He was accompanied by party leader Ndiritu Muriithi who also is the Laikipia governor and the  Azimio la Umoja head of campaigns. Speaking at various stopovers in the county, Gitau said he will soon be launching his governorship bid. “The rally I am making is to make Kirinyaga people aware that I am in the race for the governorship position,” Gitau said. He further said during his first term, he worked closely with former president Mwai Kibaki, a partnership that led to massive transformation in his constituency. Gitau said he is the best bet as his track record is evident on the ground. He said he oversaw the establishment of 43 modern classrooms which prior to that were in a pathetic condition during his tenure. “I replaced mud built classrooms which attracted dozens of learners,” the former legislator said. Gitau said his administration would increase budget allocation to students, which is between Sh2000 and Sh5,000 per student. He also promised to scale up the value chain of the agricultural produce farmed in the county. This, he said, would be by establishing factories for macadamia and tomatoes. He said many young people will get employment opportunities thus utilising their potential as well as reducing unemployment and crime rate in the factories. Regarding the shortage of drugs in the health facilities, he promised to address the problem when elected. “My government will see to it that drugs are replenished every time there will be a shortage," he said. "At no time will our health facilities lack medicines. While I was an MP, I made sure that no health facility in Mwea lacked drugs. I wish to replicate the same across the county.” Gitau was accompanied by Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi who said Azimio la Umoja seeks to ease farmers' burden due to high costs of farm inputs. The outfit, which is rallying behind ODM leader Raila Odinga for the presidency, he said, will ensure there is a good environment for running businesses. "We want the business community to run their businesses in a conducive environment and farming to be productive. Farmers should not be exploited,” Muriithi said. Others keen on unseating  Waiguru are Narc Kenya 's Martha Karua, Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici, politician Chomba Gitau, former Kirinyaga governor Joseph Ndathi and Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri.  (edited by Amol Awuor)