Nairobi's devolution chief officer Mohamed Abdi on Monday became the first high-ranking City Hall official to tender his resignation to join politics. Abdi, who is a close ally of the city assembly majority leader Abdi Guyo, wants to vie for Lafey MP seat in Mandera county. “I have decided to pursue a career in politics whereby I am vying for Member of Parliament for Lafey constituency,” Abdi said in the resignation letter addressed to Governor Anne Kananu. The letter adds, “In this regard, I hereby tender my resignation with effect from February 9.” Besides holding the position of devolution chief officer, he is also the acting chief officer in charge of Water, Energy and Sanitation. “I remain grateful to the Nairobi government for having given me the opportunity to serve Nairobians,” he said. The law requires public servants seeking elective seats in the August 9 poll to resign at least six months to the election. This implies that those eyeing elective positions must leave their offices by Wednesday, to officially join the murky waters of politics. Abdi said he will seek the seat on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party ticket. He wants to unseat incumbent Ibrahim Abdi who was elected on Economic Freedom Party. The outgoing officer has served in various positions at City Hall since 2018. He also served as a nominated MCA in the Assembly between 2013 and 2017. Abdi's resignation was informed by the endorsement of the elders from the larger Abkey Abdi Yabarsen of the Murulle Weytan community in December last year. The elders, from across all the wards in Lafey subcounty deliberated a suitable candidate in a meeting held in Lafey town from December 23 to 25, before settling on Abdi. "I am experienced and I believe I have what it takes to take our constituency to the next level," he said. Abdi promised to work closely with the national government to improve security. He said he will also partner with the county government to ensure health facilities are well equipped and stocked with drugs. The outgoing officer promised to improve standards of education in the constituency by providing bursaries and improving school infrastructure. "There will be no skewed allocation of bursaries during my time. I will make sure only deserving students get bursaries," he said. Abdi regretted there have been cases where bright students have dropped out of school because of lack of school fees. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)