The 2018 Commonwealth Games bronze medalist Christine Ongare says she feels more comfortable battling in the minimum weight category which has taken away all the adversities she encountered in the light flyweight division. She says the switch is bound to boost her fortunes in the sport even as she eyes a vintage performance at the forthcoming AIBA World Women's Boxing Championship primed for May in Istanbul, Turkey. “To say the truth, I experienced a lot of challenges while battling in the flyweight division. It was hard squaring off with some boxers who switched from bantamweight given they were comparatively more muscular and a little bit stronger than me,” she said. “I'm happy I'll be facing my equals from now on after switching to the minimum weight division,” she added. Ongare, who made the Hit Squad quartet that flew the country's flag at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, will have an opportunity to gauge her preparedness at next month's Africa  Zone 3 Boxing Championship in Dar-es-salaam, Tanzania before making her trip to Turkey. She put up a spirited fight to clinch bronze in last year's edition of the games which were held in Kinshasa, Congo. “I'm looking forward to the Africa Zone 3 Games in Tanzania and my objective is to perform a lot better than I did during last year's edition in Kinshasa, Congo,” said Ongare. The pugilist, who plies her trade for Kenya Police on the local front, says she has been busy sharpening her claws at Kariobangi Social Hall gymnasium where she traces her humble beginnings. “I'm one person who firmly believes in maintaining fitness at all times. This is why I have always found ways of maintaining my fitness to the required standards by training at home even when I'm not in camp with my official club — the Kenya Police,” said Ongare. Ongare reckons that Kenyan female boxers still have a long way to go judging by what she witnessed at the two editions of President Jamal Boxing Championship in Nairobi and Kisumu respectively late last year. “I'm yet to find a female boxer who can serve as a quality sparring partner. That's why I've been sparring with the likes of David Karanja who offers the right challenge in speed and technique,” she observed. “However, I have noted one particular boxer from Kisumu who might be a big threat to me in the near future. And that's something encouraging,” said Ongare.