Jubilee gubernatorial aspirants in Nairobi have stepped up their bids to be on the ballot. This comes following the party's revival over the weekend. Governor Anne Kanau, businesswoman Agnes Kagure and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia are after the seat. The three, who attended the Jubilee National Convention Delegates, are eyeing the ticket ahead of the nominations. Jubilee and ODM being expected to conduct joint primaries. Ngatia is said to be keen on the latter’s ticket. The business tycoon said he is more than ready for a face-off with anyone in the Azimio La Umoja primaries. Azimio, which is ODM leader Raila Odinga’s movement in his bid for the presidency, is supported by Jubilee, ODM and other parties. “I have been a member of this party for quite some time now. I believe in its ideologies and that’s why I am working tirelessly to get this ticket,” Ngatia said over the weekend. The KNCCI boss has started grassroots campaigns in Nairobi, meeting different groups. “I look forward to meeting more Nairobians to learn about their needs, finding solutions and sharing my vision,” Ngatia said. He has received a major boost after a nod from Mt Kenya elders based in Nairobi to contest for the governor seat. This, is in addition, to an endorsement from the Abagusii leaders, former Nairobi Councillors and Opinion leaders, from the Akamba community. Nairobi Governor Anne Kananu is banking on her being the first female governor of the city. Kananu strongly believes, Nairobi county is and would be safe in the hands of a woman. “I came into office on the agenda of cleaning up Nairobi, whereas we have made tremendous and remarkable progress, we aren't done yet.  I Nairobians to vote for me and let me finish what I started,” she said. One of her tactics to get the gubernatorial ticket is the attendance of various  Azimio la Umoja events graced by ODM presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga. The county boss, was earlier this month, endorsed by the Meru Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders to defend her seat. The leaders gave President Uhuru Kenyatta conditions to endorse  Governor Kananu for the governor seat. Led by their national chairman Linus Kathera, the leaders said they will only support the political party that will endorse Kananu. Businesswoman Agnes Kagure is the only Jubilee aspirant who has officially launched her candidature and was endorsed by elders from the Kikuyu community. With her five-point agenda, she said her manifesto, will involve revamping water supply sanitation, health care for all and reorganising public transport to ease movement. Kagure will improve safety and security in the city if elected. “My quest to lead and transform Nairobi is about the residents who are taxpayers,” she said. “Nairobi needs an astute leader of impeccable wit, unquestionable integrity and my work with various groups in private capacity speaks for itself and we can do more at the county level.” The three Jubilee aspirants will battle it out with ODM’s Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi who declared an interest and launched his candidature for the governor seat. They will also join former Starehe MP Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja who are seeking the county’s top position using different parties. Edited by Kiilu Damaris