Kapseret Mp Oscar Sudi has hit back at President Uhuru Kenyatta over his remarks about politicians focusing on campaigns instead of serving Kenyans. In what seemed to be an indirect attack at his deputy William Ruto, Uhuru slammed politicians for continuously faulting his administration over performance. "Kazi tunafanya. Kazi haifanywi juu ya magari, inafanywa ofisini," said Uhuru during the official opening of the Health Workforce Conference at Sarova Whitesands Mombasa on Monday. Loosely translated, "We are working. Work is not done in political rallies. It is done in offices." In his response, Sudi said Uhuru should know that he was elected as a result of people campaigning for him on top of vehicles. "Kuanzia 2002, ulisaidiwa, ukasukumwa hawakua wanasimama ndani ya gari. Walisimama juu ya gari ndio wewe uko kwa hio ofisi huko," he said in a video. Loosely translated, "From 2002 you were helped into the Presidency by people who campaigned on top of vehicles and not in them". Sudi who is Ruto's ally also went on to accuse the president of stalling his succession process. The president has in the past accused Ruto of dwelling on campaigns instead of focusing on the Jubilee agenda. While in Mombasa for the launch of the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) programme, the President did not shy from attacking his Deputy. Uhuru, who pitched a tent in Mombasa just a day after Ruto’s coastal tour, also took to the podium and took a swipe at his deputy for non-stop politicking. He dismissed reports that ODM leader Raila Odinga is his project even as he maintained that he has a right to choose whoever he will vote for. "He is not my project as it is being said, but I will cast my vote to the person that I trust will bring change to Kenya,” he said. He revisited his warnings to the DP and his camp over early politics saying the team refused to heed. “Niliwambia hii mambo ya kutanga tanga, wakasema niwache wao watange tange. I let them be, what do they want me to say now?” posed the President. Loosely translated, "I had warned him about crisscrossing the country for early campaigns but they said they won't stop..” Uhuru added that he does not have an issue with his deputy running for the presidency. “I do not have an issue with anyone’s ambition. I had only told them that there is time for everything. Time for politics and time to do the work. They chose politics from morning to evening,” Uhuru said. The head of state said this year he will not shy away from politics.