Commonwealth 400m champion Isaac Makwala says he would love to compete at the third edition of the Kip Keino Classic on May 7 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The Botswana sprinter said he has fond memories of the last year after finishing second in the men's 200m in the same event at the same venue. Makwala timed 20.06 behind American Fred Kerley who clocked a personal best of 19.76 as Italian Fillipo timed 20.11 in third. "When is the date?... May 7th? For sure I will be there. It will be a pleasure to run in Kenya once again," the Olympic 4x400m relay bronze medalist said. Makwala will be defending his Commonwealth crown in July in Birmingham and is further expected to fight for the world title in Oregon in the same month. Makwala, who also led his nation to a 4x400m relay gold at the Gold Coast, says that a great performance in East Africa will be the right result he requires before heading for these major championships. He had also hinted last year at hanging up his spikes after this year to concentrate on moulding new talents coming through. "I want to win it (Kip Keino Classic) this year. My aim is to clock at least 19.7 in the 200m. Kasarani is a fast track and I believe it is possible to achieve such a time," Makwala said. Makwala's news will be music to the ears of meet director, Barnaba Korir, who earlier this week called for as many African sprinters as possible to enlist for the one-day event. "As a federation and a country, we want to invite many African nations and athletes to come and compete at the Continental Tour. This will foster the level of competition in the country and on the continent," Korir said. Elsewhere, the 2008 Riga Marathon champion Sammy Rotich was over the moon after his first road race win in 14 years when he cut the tape at the Austin Marathon over the weekend. The 2006 Lausanne Marathon champion timed 2:14:25 to cross the finish line first, ahead of American Will Nation (2:17:25) and fellow Kenyan, Jackson Limo (2:21:8) in second and third respectively. "It was really a brilliant day...a very good day for me. I am so happy to have won today's race," Rotich said. It was indeed a Kenyan affair in Houston city as Daniel Kemoi led a 1-2 finish in the half marathon. Kemoi timed 1:03:49 as a countryman, Lawrence Kipkoech and American Riley Cook clocked 1:05:07 and 1:07:09 in second and third respectively.