Police in Lari dispersed protestors and put out bonfires after demonstrations erupted over poor status of the 44km Nyambare, Uplands, Githunguri, Ruiru road. The residents had planned to block the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway before they were repulsed by anti-riot police led by Lari subcounty deputy police commander Charles Opondo. The police also removed the old tires, logs and twigs which had been used to lit the bonfire at the junction which joins the highway with the road under construction. The residents were protesting the delayed tarmacking of the road, alleging that the contractor keeps stopping the works. They said the road is now muddy and slippery, owing to the heavy rains. They claimed the road has left them counting loses, adding that on Tuesday, a boda boda rider skidded while carrying two bags of kales and ended up fracturing his leg. “The road is so muddy. We cannot use it. We resort to using other roads, making our journey to various places longer. Those roads are also not very good,” Francis Gicheru, a boda boda group chairman, said. Boda boda rider Joseph Chege said on Monday night, they helped push a  police vehicle which was stuck in the mud for almost an hour. “The police station lies 2km from the road and police use this road. The police were going to respond to a distress call and they got stuck along the road. We went to help them,” Chege said. Residents are now forced to walk since matatus plying along the road have stopped operating. “We are now walking for long distances. We are not sure whether to ask God to stop the rains. We need His blessings” Jane Nyambura, a resident, said. MCA aspirant John Mugu has asked the Kenya National Highway Authority to investigate what happened with the construction since the contractor has been on the site for three years. “The economy of a country is supported by roads. Infrastructure is very important. It supports everybody no matter what little businesses are done by the people,” he said. KeNHA communication director Samuel Kumba said the issues was being followed up.  (edited by Amol Awuor)