Love is the term that binds everything in perfect harmony. The month of love is finally here and people are already excited about it. This is the month that many look forward to spending time with their dear ones by going on romantic dates, gifting them special tokens of love, asking out their potential love interest and more. This is done courtesy of the universal celebrations of Valentine Day marked on February 14. On this day, those in love indulge in doing all the mushy things; celebrating love and companionship and making grand gestures for their partners and potential dates. However, Valentine’s Day is not celebrated just for a Single Day. The love festivities last for an entire week, that is from February 7 to February 14. Before Valentines Day, people also celebrate Rose Day, Propose Day, Chocolate Day, Teddy Day, Promise Day, Hug Day and Kiss Day. Each day has its own significance. Here’s what the various days of the love week signify; February 7: Rose Day On this day, we let roses do the talking. People exchange roses as a gesture of love and respect. The roses come in different colours and each colour expresses a different feeling. The traditional red rose expresses love, a white rose expresses new beginnings, a pink one expresses feelings of admiration and appreciation while a yellow rose is for eternal friendship. February 8: Propose Day It is needless to say what this day entails. Propose Day is the day lovers express their love and emotions. This is the day to pop the most important question to your loved one. It is the perfect time of the year for couples waiting to put a ring on their relationship. February 9:Chocolate Day Whether your proposal is accepted or turned down, do not forget to pamper the person with a box of chocolates. People exchange chocolates and some even pamper their loved ones by gifting them an assorted collection of candies. February 10:Teddy Day Who doesn’t love a cute and cuddly soft toy? On the 4th Day, couples exchange plush toys like teddy bears to express their love. February 11:Promise Day It’s time for lovers to make some real promises to each other. Let your significant other know the promises and all that you intend to do for them and with them, till the very end. Make an adorable commitment to them on this day. February 12:Hug Day Nothing fixes emotional cracks,doubts or anxiousness about the future more than a big warm hug. During this day, people comfort their loved ones by giving them a tight embrace. When words can’t explain an emotion or complicated situation, a hug seems to work on the 6th Day. February 13: Kiss Day Lovers seal their love with a kiss right before Valentine’s Day. February 14: Valentine’s Day This is the culmination of all the week-long celebrations with dinner dates and other romantic gestures. You can plan a day out, or a candle lit dinner maybe...whatever works for your partner. Do things that make you feel closer to your significant other. Exchange not only gifts but also words of reassurance.