Kenya is on the right track in ensuring food safety but there is a need to continually improve, former Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga has said. Boga said despite the small gains made on food safety, the informal sector is lagging behind and streamlining it has been a big challenge. He spoke during a national validation workshop for the draft Food Safety Policy, 2021 and Food and Feed Coordination Bill, 2021. The draft policy and bill are currently in the validation stage, where members of the public are free to give their comments until February 25, 2022. Boga said as the country looks into addressing the Food Safety Bill, it is important to ensure the informal sector is brought in without making it too expensive. “The informal sector feeds a big population in the country and they are important stakeholders as far as food security is concerned,” he said. After validation, the laws will be presented to the Cabinet through the office of the AG before being forwarded to Parliament for debate. Kenya has a Food Safety Bill which was enacted in 2013, but in 2018 a ministerial taskforce comprising of the ministries of Health and Agriculture was created to review the Bill and other food safety related legislations. Boga said the drafts will address the role and responsibility of food business operators in ensuring food safety in the country. This will require training and capacity building. The former PS said the current food safety laws emphasise on food exports rather than domestic, but the drafts will ensure domestic food is also taken care of. It will also ensure the role of the county governments and other competent authorities in enhancing safety. He said in the past, the government took the role of assuring food safety, and this should not be the case because it is not the government that is preparing the food. “The innovative and modern thing to do is make sure food business operators whether mama mboga or a big food company, know the critical areas in their operations that could result into food hazards and therefore create public health problems. The law will shift the responsibility to the food business operators, with the government just playing a regulatory role,” Boga said. He said according to the draft Bill, food business operators will be required to put a lot of documentation, including the necessity for traceability (where the food came from and how it was handled all through until the point when it is ready for consumption). “This is crucial not just for safety but also for trade and also to make sure that people do not put unnecessary procedures that hinder trade without necessarily assuring food safety,” Boga said. Patrick Amoth, chair of the taskforce said inadequate food safety is a significant contributor to the burden of disease in developing countries including Kenya, and should be addressed as the food system develops. “The heavy burden of food borne diseases imposes substantial economic losses to individual, households, health systems and entire nations. Economic losses as a result of rejected food exports due to shortcomings in food safety are also often very significant,” said Amoth who is also acting director general in the Ministry of Health.    -Edited by SKanyara