A Kiambu MCA has partnered with outdoor advertising companies to recycle billboards banner into school bags. Ndenderu ward MCA Solomon Kinuthia said the bags will play a crucial role in waste management. The 1,200 bags will be donated to various schools in the county. "Recycling increases the lifespan of the things we use. This includes repairing or up cycling our items to give them a new lease of life," Kinuthia said. Kinuthia said the country has invested in both policies and law enforcement to win fight against plastic pollution and create economic opportunities through recycling. He said  he was able to work with outdoor advertising companies like Magnate Ventures Ltd, Kimshee Outfitters, Kenagro Suppliers Limited amongst others. "The school bags are made from repurposed billboard canvas donated by leading outdoor advertising companies," Kinuthia said. Kinuthia added that he bore all the tailoring and fitting cost. He is targeting pupils from vulnerable households within Upper Kihara, Wangunyu, Karura ACK, Ndenderu, Muya and Gacharage primary schools. "The bags are durable, strong, water resistant, tough and lightweight. These qualities will ensure they serve the recipients for a long time,"  Kinuthia said. According to the school headteachers, the idea is perfectly timed and it will be a constant reminder of waste management for future generations. "It’s wonderful to see the smiles on the pupils when they received the bags," John Ole Seita, headteacher Wangunyu primary school said. Outdoor advertising companies said it is gratifying to think that banners have been reused creatively to enhance the school experience for so many children. "The idea is a noble initiative, recycling cannot be ignored and we join in saying no to waste and yes to helping the less privileged,Stanley Kinyanjui Managing director Magnate ventures said. Gregory Kamau, a parent said he buys school bag every other term but the recycled billboard banner bag is strong and durable. "Sometimes an idea can save the community and this one is not only environmentally conscious but also saves money," Kamau said.