Herders have urged the national and county governments not to focus all resources on campaigns at the expense of suffering pastoralists. Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey said the current drought is being overshadowed by the campaign mood which is gaining momentum in the country. Amey spoke to the press in his Garissa office on Sunday. “You have seen politicians, those from our region included, focusing on their reelection campaigns. Others are too busy in Nairobi trying to position themselves. "But even as they are doing this they seem to have forgotten that their people are still suffering from the effects of drought,” Amey said. A prolonged dry spell has ravaged the county, affecting pastoralists. The Met department says the dry period will continue for three months, making the already bad situation worse. According to the National Drought Management Authority January report, only two subcounties in Garissa received some rainfall. Lagdera and Balambala subcounties recorded the lowest level of rainfall. The report further stated that Fafi and Ijara, which received substantial rain, are currently facing high livestock population. Residents are now searching for water and pasture and the situation is likely to worsen in the next two months. Amey said the latest NDMA report was a clear indication of how bad the situation is on the ground. He said leaders had deviated from asking for assistance for their people in terms of food distribution and livestock feeds. "The thing is once they keep quiet our people will continue suffering,” he added. The chairman said pastoralists are only interested and focused on saving their herds and providing for their families. He said knowing who will be president or those who will occupy the other positions was least of their concerns. Amey urged the state through the Ministry of Devolution and Special Programmes to enhance food distribution as well as livestock feeds until the region receives rainfall. “I want to repeat what I have said before, our people who are hungry are not interested in knowing who will be the president of this country. "Let our government and leaders go back to the drawing board and use their positions to assist people,” Amey said. He also urged the government to embark on the livestock offtake programme. The chairman said the exercise has never picked up well, despite earlier pronouncement by the state of launching it. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)