A legislator is proposing an amendment to law to have parliamentarians run for only two consecutive terms just like the governors and Presidents. Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui said two terms for any elected leader  was enough for them to deliver on their agenda, arguing there is no justification for one to run for several years. Tonui who has announced he will not be defending his seat in the forthcoming general election, also used the opportunity to urge other elected leaders to emulate the idea by paving way for others to lead. “Two terms is quite enough for one to prove his ability to deliver on their promises to the electorates, I do not see the reason why someone would want to remain in the same seat for several years that is why is there is a need to have a term limit introduced,” he said. He said the introduction of the term limits guarantees fair representation hence real development being achieved. Early last year, a petitioner moved to court seeking to have article 102, 148 and 180 amended to provide for such restrictions as compared to having leaders run for the seats at their pleasure. Speaking at Kiplelji Secondary School in Bomet Central on Saturday when he handed over a bus to the institution, the legislator also hinted at making a comeback in 2027 to run for the governor’s seat. “For now I am taking a break in politics but will return in future to run for a higher seat, not here anymore…but this does not mean I have stopped participating in active politics, I am in UDA and fully support Deputy President William Ruto in his bid to ascend to power in the August poll,” he said. He also announced he will not be endorsing anyone for the seat calling on residents to choose wisely while asking the aspirants to put forward the interests of the people. Tonui is among the few legislators who have so far opted out of the race. His Bomet counterpart Beatrice Kones and Mumias legislator Ben Washiali have publicly declared their intentions not to defend their seats. Tonui at the same time said they are going to oppose the new election laws being sponsored by the state as they are retrogressive and meant to reverse the gains made in the country in ensuring a free and fair election. 