Residents of Mandera will start receiving clean water in four months. The supply will be from the Mandera water and sewerage project funded by the African Development Bank and the national government. Contractors on site said the Sh1.4 billion project is nearing completion. The project is being implemented by the Northern Water Development Agency and Tana Water Works Development Agency. Site engineer Wellington Ndegwa said the project has been on course since 2018. Ndegwa spoke at the treatment plant on Wednesday. “This project is about increasing the quality and the quantity of water supply in Mandera municipality,” he said. The project will increase water capacity from 9,000 cubic metres to 16,000 cubic metres per day. The plant will get its water from River Daua. The water will then be treated and pumped to Burdas hills, where it shall gravitate to Mandera town. Site engineer Joseph Mwololo said the plant has at least four compartments to meet water demand. It is at these compartments where water will be treated and supplied to all distribution centres. The project's ponds are at Border Point One on the outskirts of Mandera town. Already 38km of the sewer line have been completed with only 10km left. Once completed, the project will be handed over to Mandera Water and Sewerage Company. Mandwasco deputy chief officer Najma Ibrahim said the project is a game-changer. She said it will increase supply by 70 per cent from the current 30 per cent. “The water project will help us deal with illegal water connections and increase our revenue collection once every home is connected,” she said. Yusuf Ibrahim, a clan elder, said the project will make life easy for residents. “It will be a great relief to have water at our convenience. So many lives will be saved, including those of our animals,” he said. Contractor Long Ze Jun said the project is proceeding well and they are looking forward to completing it within the allocated time. Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha said residents should safeguard the equipment and own the project. He said the project will transform the town and steer development. “The project will help in drought eradication. It will boost livestock keeping and ensure proper sanitation and disease control,” Kyatha said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)