A  secondary school teacher who went missing in December last year was on Thursday found dead and her head missing, at a well in Nyahururu, Laikipia county. The deceased Miriam Wairimu, a teacher at St Louis secondary school, was discovered dead at an abandoned well after the main suspect of her murder led detectives to the scene. DCI boss Geoge Kinoti said Wairimu, a mother of a one-year-old girl, disappeared on December 19, 2021, after she responded to her estranged husband Peter Kanyi's distress call. "On the day of her disappearance, Wanjiru’s estranged husband had called her sounding sickly and frail, asking her to go save him from the verge of death after taking poison. "The deceased who didn’t know that she was being lured to a death trap, rushed to save the father of her little angel, never to be seen again," Kinoti said. The house help who was taking care of her child filed a report at Losogwa police station three days after her disappearance. According to Kinoti,  a team of Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau (CRIB), were deployed to expedite the probe leading to the arrest of a prime suspect just two days after. "Using cyber forensic analysis of digital data that was processed at the DCI National Forensic laboratory, the main suspect into the murder Anthony Mutahi, 29, was arrested yesterday. "After intensive grilling, the suspect led the sleuths to 90-metres-deep water well, where he had disposed of the deceased’s body. The detectives retrieved the body that had its head missing," Kinoti stated. Upon further scrutiny of the well, the second body of an unidentified teenage girl that was badly decomposed was found. Scenes of Crime experts have since extracted samples from the body for DNA profiling. Detectives established that the irreconcilable differences between the deceased and her estranged husband culminated in the late selling of her matatu that her husband was using to eke out a living. Further probe into the matter revealed that the main suspect in the murder withdrew Sh120,000 from the deceased's Equity bank account in Nyahururu town using her ATM card. Kanyi has been arrested as a suspected accomplice and will face murder charges, contrary to section 203 as read with section 204 of the Penal Code The deceased one-year-old girl is under the care and protection of the local Children’s officer, who is working closely with DCI’s Anti Human Trafficking and Child Protection detectives, to ensure that the infant is well taken care of.