Passengers travelling from Migori, Homa Bay and Kisumu through Lake Victoria can breathe a sigh of relief after ferry services resumed operations. The Mbita Ferry Services Limited reopened it services on Friday after after halting operation in December last year. Kenya Maritime Authority stopped the two ferries, MV Mbita I and MV Mbita II, from operating over safety compliance issues. MV Mbita I used to provide transport services between Mbita town and Mfangano Island in Homa Bay county. MV Mbita II offered similar services between Mbita town and Lwanda Kotieno in Siaya county, the route leading to Kisumu. The restraint order paralysed transport services in the area. In an effort to address the issue, MFS has introduced a new ferry to operate between Mbita and Lwanda Kotieno. The ferry began operations to enable residents of South Nyanza counties access Kisumu and Siaya with ease. MV Chamaunga beamed delight in faces of many passengers when it made trips between the two urban centre. The vessel has a capacity of 200 passengers and 17 saloon cars in a single trip. MFS Technical manager Bernard Siro said they decided to introduce the vessel after concerns from residents. Siro said the introduction of the vessel has restored ferry services in the lake. “Let our clients know that ferry services have resumed. We’re back ,” Siro said. The vessel spends a maximum of 45 minutes from Mbita to Lwanda Kotieno. Siro said “The vessel is safe for use and it will enable our passengers to reach their destinations on time. It has also meet all the KMA requirements." The company however faulted the KMA for setting very high safety standards. He argued that some of the requirements should only be applied on vessels operating at sea. “Our ferries covers short distances but the KMA gave us very high standards which should apply to bigger vessel,” Siro said. He appealed to the KMA to review the standards and consider short distance vessels which operate in Lake Victoria. Traders expressed optimism that the vessel will transform their lives. Fish trader Salome Adhiambo said the vessel will boost business by enhancing transport of the commodities. “We have been operating our businesses in difficulties due to lack of a ferry. This vessel will improve our town,” Adhiambo said. Another resident Tina Akoth said “The vessel will cushion us from  wooden boats which are prone to accidents during strong winds."