MPs are probing how a company used bogus registration papers to win Sh40 million contracts at the Ministry of Petroleum and Mining. Lawmakers on the Public Accounts Committee on Thursday heard that Bitrov Limited was awarded multimillion tenders after presenting certificates that were non-existent. According to Auditor General Nancy Gathungu’s 2019-20 report, the company was awarded two contracts worth Sh26.1 million and Sh13,777,520. It said the awards were based on fake documents. “The certificate of incorporation – CPR/2013/213800 — submitted by the firm during tendering for the services indicated the company was incorporated onNovember 5, 2013,” the audit report read. “However, independent confirmation of the registration status of the company with the Registrar of Companies (CR12) indicated the company was registered on August 18, 2018. No explanation was provided for the anomaly," the auditors said. The firm was first paid Sh6.5 million as part of payment for a feasibility study on establishing a granite mining operation in Vihiga county. The fee was Sh26.1 million, according to the report being examined by the oversight committee. The ministry stopped further payments after it emerged the firm presented fake papers. In another instance, the same firm was again contracted in 2019 to undertake a feasibility study on establishment of a soapstone value addition centre in Kisii county for Sh13.8 million. On Thursday, Petroleum and Mining PS Andrew Nganga said the state department stopped further payments to the company after the anomaly was flagged. “We wrote to the company requesting details but they did not respond. Payments were suspended after they refused to explain the anomaly,” the PS explained. He further said  Bitrov Limited met all the requirements and signed and stamped self-declaration statement that the firm and its consultant shall not engage in any corrupt and fraudulent practices. “There was no criterion in the tender document on the date of registration of the company,” the PS said. The PS was appearing before the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee to respond to queries raised by Gathungu in her 2019-20 audit report. The oversight committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi cautioned the PS over the move to withhold payment, saying that the ministry may end up paying millions if the firm decides to sue. “There must be a clear justification why you are holding their pay. We have seen cases where people go to court and get awarded millions of shillings,” Wandayi said. (Edited by V. Graham)