Next month's World Athletics Race Walking Team Championships in Muscat, Oman is the perfect springboard for Kenya to launch its ascent to the top as a powerhouse in the sport. The team leader of the national team to the March 4-5 competition, George Kariuki, says mingling with other great race walkers will be enough motivation for them to push forward in their careers. "This is the first competition for Kenya to enter a team. We want to stamp our presence in the championships and use it as the perfect launchpad for the qualifiers for the World Championships in August. It is an opportunity for us to enter the esteemed leagues of the sport," Kariuki said. The five-athlete team comprises World Under-20 race walk champion Heristone Wanyonyi (10km, under 20), Commonwealth Games 20km walk bronze medalist Samuel Gathimba (20km), African Games 20km champion Emily Ngii (20km women), Simon Wachira (20km) and 2017 World Under 18 bronze medalist Dominic Ndigiti. Kariuki said the athletes are in high spirits and want nothing less than to showcase their potential on a worldwide stage. "They are in high spirits considering this championship is the first of its kind. They are motivated by the fact that the government and Athletics Kenya have shown commitment to supporting them in their preparations. The championship has opened gates for them to train even harder," he said. Furthermore, he singled out Wanyonyi as a symbol of hope for more medals on the global stage as far as race walking is concerned. "He's a champion already having won the World Under 20 title on home soil. He's a man destined for the top and so the spotlight will be on him in Oman. He is on his last days as a junior athlete as next year he will be transitioning to the senior ranks. I believe he can spearhead our new charge as we strive to become giants in race walking," Kariuki said. Although they have been training separately, Kariuki is optimistic all the athletes are prepared for whatever awaits them in Muscat. "We are going to assemble on Monday for our travel. However, I dispatched training programmes to each of them, which they have been following religiously. In future, I hope we have the opportunity for a residential camp to sharpen ourselves," he said. Kariuki added: "An athlete must always be prepared for any weather conditions. Despite the weather in Oman being different from Nairobi, I know they have prepared well." Kariuki also pointed to the increasing number of race walkers at local competitions as a sign of the burgeoning significance of the sport in the country. "At the first leg of AK Track and Field Weekend Meeting, we had over 40 athletes compete in race walking. Many more will want to participate in the future because they have now seen they can go places," he said. 