Kenyans in dire need of food aid have increased from 2.8 million in December to 3.1 million, the drought authority says. Some 500,000 people are considered to be in the emergency phase while the remaining 2.6 million people are in crisis phase. The data from Short Rains Food and Nutrition Security Assessment was released on Tuesday by the National Drought Management Authority. The 12 most affected counties are Marsabit, Turkana, Samburu, Baringo (Tiaty), Wajir, Mandera, Garissa, Isiolo, Tana River, parts of Kitui, Meru, Laikipia. “Eleven counties are in crisis phase. Marsabit is in emergency phase while Moyale subcounty is in crisis phase," the report reads. Additionally, more than 656,000 children between six and 59 months are acutely malnourished and in need of treatment. About 100,000 pregnant and lactating women are also acutely malnourished. NDMA chief executive officer James Oduor said the drivers of the food and nutrition insecurity include below average 2021 October -December short rains performance, effects of two previous below average seasons and below average crop and livestock production. “This is in addition to high staple food and low livestock prices, Covid-19 pandemic and related effects and conflict and insecurity especially in Baringo and Marsabit,” he said. The assessment was undertaken by the Kenya Food Security Steering Group led by NDMA and WFP. It was conducted in Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Tana River, Samburu, Baringo, West Pokot, Laikipia, Embu (Mbeere), Meru (Meru North), Nyeri (Kieni), Kitui, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi (Tharaka), Kajiado, Narok, Taita Taveta, Kwale, Kilifi and Lamu counties. “The nutrition situation has deteriorated in most counties and is expected to further deteriorate during the projection period. "This is attributed to worsening food insecurity situation with decreasing milk availability across households," the report reads. The report listed other key drivers as poor water sanitation and hygiene, high morbidity and stock-out of essential supplies for management of acute malnutrition. NDMA report recommended interventions including livestock commercial offtake and slaughter destocking. It also recommended pests and disease control and provision of farm inputs for the long rains planting season. The Kenya Meteorological Department has indicated that the peak of the rains is expected to be in the month of April. However, over the Coastal Strip, the peak is expected during the month of May. The March-April-May long rains season outlook released on Tuesday showed that some regions are likely to experience enhanced rainfall. They include the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands east of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi county), the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the northwest, the southern Rift Valley, the central Rift Valley and the southeastern lowlands. However, near average rainfall is expected over northeastern and the Coastal regions. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)