Some electoral experts say the IEBC should pick "a new broom" as its CEO five months to the polls. There are, however, questions as to whether there is sufficient time for an outsider to take over and learn the ropes before the elections. The IEBC on Monday shortlisted five individuals for the top job, among them Hussein Marjan, who has been acting since 2018. The commission is racing against time to recruit a CEO to take over from Ezra Chiloba, who was fired over alleged gross misconduct. On Monday, elections expert Brian Weke said IEBC must get fresh blood to restore confidence in the management of elections. “The IEBC needs a mind with fresh thinking, we need a totally new and different person as the CEO,” Weke said. The former IEBC consultant on electoral matters warned that unless the commission settles on a “new person with a strong grounding in election management’, the commission will continue with their past blunders. “If you recruit someone from within, then you will be perpetrating the same mistakes that have dogged the commission,” he said. The 2017 election was nullified by the Supreme Court over what was blamed on grave errors by the secretariat that resulted in irregularities and illegalities. Wafula Chebukati's commission has shortlisted Marjan, the 2017 deputy CEO Nancy Wanjiku, Mabonga Joel, Zephaniah Okeyo and George Michugu from a list of over 500 applicants. In 2016, Okeyo emerged top during interviews for IEBC commissioners but he never got the job. The Commission has lined up interviews for the five starting March 8 at the agency’s Anniversary Towers headquarters as it races against time to complete the process. Election Observation Group National Coordinator Mule Musau said IEBC must go for a CEO who has strong grasp of the management of the electoral process. Mule said although the time left to the polls is constrained, the commission must hire someone who is well experienced in election matters. “We need one who would quickly establish a good working relationship with the commissioners and acquaint themselves with the entire secretariat including field officers,” Mule said. Mule said, "IEBC must hire a leader with unquestionable integrity and demonstrate strong character since this is a political process.” The commission on Monday also shortlisted 10 candidates for the position of deputy CEO. The list has Finance director Obadiah Keitany, who is the acting deputy commission secretary, Said Nuno, Ibrahim Hosman, Tobiko Naisiae, Nelly Ilongo, Joyce Idimu, Fredrick Ogalo, Simon Cheruiyot Ruth Kulundu and John Muhia. The commission received 860 applicants for the position. Interviews for the deputy CEO position will start on March 10. The commission is keen on putting its house in order to correct indicting mistakes cited by the Supreme Court in the 2017 presidential petition. (Edited by Tabnacha O)