The Parliamentary Service Commission has begun the recruitment of Clerk of the National Assembly. The appointee will take over from Michael Sialai who has attained the retirement age of 60. PSC secretary Jeremiah Nyegenye, in the notice, said the appointee would serve a five-year term, renewable once. “Applications must include a cover letter, copies of academic certifications and duly completed Parliamentary Service Commission job application form which can be downloaded from the Parliament website,” the notice reads. Applicants will also be required to provide clearance from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Kenya Revenue Authority, CRB, and Helb. Sialai’s tenure was extended for one year to allow for a smooth transition between the 12th Parliament and the one to be constituted after the August election. Also cited was the need to capitalise on the clerk’s expertise and to ensure there was no disruption of services during the transition. The clerk’s term was to end on May 25, 2021 – retirement date, but the commission extended it – on contract, to July, a time within which a replacement will have been sourced. Activist Okiya Omtatah challenged the reappointment but lost at the court of appeal. Sialai was appointed in January 2017 to replace Justin Bundi - who has since passed on. He has been lauded for the transformation of Parliament. He took over when Parliament faced many challenges among them lack of facilities for use by MPs and staffers. In his wake, the face of Parliament is argued to have improved tremendously. Changes include the expansion of committee rooms, which has seen MPs host meetings within the precincts. Sialai, a Masters in History holder, was also credited for restoring relations in Parliament post-2017, when opposition MPs staged frequent boycotts. He started his journey in the public service in 1989 as a History and Kiswahili teacher at Kimulot Secondary School. Sialai also had a stint as an assistant lecturer at Kericho Teachers Training College until 1995 when he was posted to the National Assembly as a clerk assistant. He has risen through the ranks to the current position of the clerk of the National Assembly. In 2015, PSC recommended him to President Uhuru Kenyatta for the Elder of Burning Spear award. The officeholder is responsible for the day-to-day management and functioning of the August House. A clerk is also charged with the execution of PSC’s decisions relating to the National Assembly. The officer is also tasked with the overall management of the staff of the National Assembly and is the principal adviser of the Speaker. The post is also responsible for advising the Parliamentary Service Commission and implementing PSC resolutions. This is in respect of matters relating to the appointment, promotion and discipline of the members of staff of the National Assembly. The office is also tasked with the assignment of duties, supervision, training of the staff and the deployment of the respective clerks of Parliament. The National Assembly clerk is also the accounting officer tasked with the preparation and submission of the programmes in line with the mandate of PSC. Clerks also handle procedural matters in the assembly including “rendering non-partisan and impartial advice to members of the National Assembly.” The advice is on the legislative process and parliamentary procedure and practice as provided in standing orders and practices of the National Assembly. “In carrying out the functions specified above, the clerk of the National Assembly shall be assisted by such other officers of the PSC as may be necessary,” the notice reads. A person is qualified for appointment as a clerk of the National Assembly, if that person is a citizen of Kenya and holds a degree from a university recognised in Kenya. Also required is at least 10 years of experience in senior management and leadership position in public affairs. Persons who have demonstrated flair and a good understanding of parliamentary practise and procedure would be considered. Also to be checked is whether one meets the requirements of leadership and integrity as prescribed in chapter six of the Constitution. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)