Kenya got a rude shock after the rich nations reneged on their pledge to set aside money to tackle climate change in African countries. Kenya was among African countries that attended UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties(CoP 26) at Glasgow last year with high hopes of funding. Thirteen years ago, one clear promise that emerged from the 2009 climate talks in Copenhagen was that developed countries were to provide short and long term climate finance to help developing countries adapt to climate impacts. According to the promise, wealthier nations would give $10 billion (Sh1 trillion) a year from 2010-2012, ramping up to $100 billion (Sh10 trillion). That pledge has not been delivered. The Kenya government half-heartedly endorsed the Glasgow climate pact though it failed to deliver the desired results. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko in his closing remarks said his delegation went to the climate talks with high expectations. “Whilst Glasgow has not delivered what Paris promised, the long wait is not yet over despite CoP26 not being the resounding success we had hoped for," Tobiko said. "Nevertheless, the Glasgow package represents a positive step in the fulfilment of the Paris promise. For this reason, and in the spirit of compromise, Kenya endorses the Glasgow climate pact." During the conference, developed countries pledged to double their provision of adaptation finance for developing countries. Tobiko however felt the move was a big letdown. “…..we would emphasise that trust is of utmost importance.  As the saying goes “once bitten, twice shy." Tobiko said the trust has not only been broken but shattered. “A lot needs to be done, not by words, but by actions if the broken trust is to be restored.” The 26th edition of the Conference of Parties took place in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12. The CS said the powerful and reassuring statements from leaders sat at odds with the positions taken by the developed countries during technical and ministerial negotiations. He said developed countries that bear the greatest historical responsibility for the current emissions must urgently take deeper emission cuts this decade in order to close the mitigation gap. Tobiko said there is a need and urgency for mobilising climate change finance. This, he says, means moving from billions to trillions- particularly from the public sector and in the form of grants and highly concessional loans, to keep the 1.5-degree goal within reach. The government pledged to fight another day. The 27th session (COP 27) to the UNFCCC is set to take place in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt from November 7 to 18, 2022. African countries are already putting their agenda in place ahead of the conference. During a press briefing on Monday, Jacqueline Musiitwa, Senior Associate at ZeniZeni Sustainable Finance questioned whether the Sh10.1 trillion pledged by rich countries was still relevant. “We need a new economic reality and how to negotiate again,” she said. Musiitwa said Africa which is only responsible for eight per cent of global emissions had borne the brunt of climate change. She urged the private sector to come up with innovations to tackle the challenge. Musiitwa said the impact of climate change has stunted many African countries that were almost graduating from the least developed to middle-income. "It’s great to see more Africans involved, but once again: not enough. The conversation is still primarily dominated by the Global North with not enough participation from the Global South," Musiitwa said. "My hope with COP27 is that we will see more African and more Global South engagement that is really able to trigger new types of partnerships." Musiitwa said there is a need to get back to the drawing table and make  solutions that support Africa. She said the solutions should be systemic in nature and not only looking at one aspect of development or climate but able to tackle the larger systemic issues that African countries are facing. Jean-Paul Adam- Director, Technology, Climate Change and Natural Resources, United Nations Economic Commission for Africa said every delay in relation to preventing warming beyond 1.5 degrees has real economic costs. “... African countries will be losing about 5% of GDP to climate change alone. Already, they are spending up to 9% of their GDP in responding to climate-related disasters," he said. Adam said estimates that have been done by the African Development Bank have shown that the investments needed just based on African Nationally Determined Contributions are in excess of USD 3 trillion. “African countries went to COP26 asking for about $1.3 trillion. That’s a very, very large sum but relative to the amounts that have been invested in Covid-19 it’s actually a very small sum and the return on investment is high." The Executive Director, Climate Action Network International Tasneem Essop said. “So if there’s any milestone in the lead-up to COP27, it is going to be this report," "We have to ask a fundamental question: are our leaders listening? Are they listening to the science? Are they seeing the devastation already seen around the world? And then: are they going to do something about it." Kenya has been grappling with the impacts of climate change manifesting themselves inform of droughts, rising lakes, floods among others. Kenya’s updated Nationally Determined Contribution increases mitigation commitment from 30 per cent in 2016 to 32 per cent by 2030. NDCs embody efforts by each country to reduce national emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. The Paris Agreement requires each party to prepare, communicate and maintain successive NDCs that it intends to achieve. Parties shall pursue domestic mitigation measures, with the aim of achieving the objectives of such contributions. The NDC also commits to enhancing resilience in all sectors of the economy. The implementation cost of the updated NDC mitigation and adaptation is estimated to cost Sh6.710 trillion between 2020 and 2030. The sectors that the government intends to use to curb emissions include agriculture, energy, manufacturing, transport; waste and forestry.