With three days before the end of the second phase of voter registration exercise, a group in Narok county has partnered with the IEBC to ensure the residents register as voters. The group, under the Narok Minority Community Forum, will work closely with the local electoral commission officials to make sure people turn up in large numbers and register as voters before the expiry date. While commending the group, Narok North constituency election coordinator John Taiswa said the move will help them in mobilising  more people to get enlisted and exercise their constitutional mandate by voting in the August polls. He made the remarks after flagging-off the group at the IEBC offices in Narok. “They will be accompanied by voter educators and will sensitise the residents on the need to register as voters," Taiswa said. "We hope the numbers will increase beyond the 14,000 new registers who have so far registered since the exercise started.” Taiswa cited the current heavy rains being experienced in the region as one of the challenges affecting the exercise. “This has led to reduction of working hours in most stations but we are around the clock to ensure we reach our targeted numbers,” he said. The exercise that began on January 17 ends on Sunday February 6, 2022. Narok Minority Community Forum chairman Maurice Otiang said the aim of the campaign is to sensitise residents on the importance of voting and engaging in a peaceful election. He appealed to Narok residents and Kenyans at large to take advantage of the registration exercise to be able to elect leaders of their choice. “Many times, Kenyans complain about bad leaders but this happens because they don't register and vote,” Otiang said. He also urged the youths who recently acquired National ID cards to use opportunity to register as voters. The Constitution qualifies a person for registration as a voter at elections if the person is an adult citizen, is not declared to be of unsound mind and has not been convicted of an election offence during the preceding five years.(edited by Amol Awuor)