The Ministry of Health has opposed a bid by senators to scrap Kemsa's monopoly in the supply of medicine and non-pharmaceuticals. Health PS Susan Mochache said the state supplier needs to remain the first point of call for all procurement of medical products for public health facilities. “Kemsa should remain the first point of call for procurement, warehousing and distribution of health products and technologies listed in the relevant essential lists, at the county referral level,” Mochache. The PS who was making a presentation before the Senate health committee during a public participation on Kemsa (Amendment) Bill, 2020, said Kemsa ensures the facilities get quality and safe products. The bill scraps the provision mandating public health facilities to strictly purchase the commodities from the troubled Kemsa. “The repeal of the provision will allow county governments to procure drugs and medical supplies from suppliers other than the authority. "This will ensure adequate fill rates for both drugs and medical supplies,” the bill reads. The bill is sponsored by nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga. Shiyonga argues that Kemsa has not been adequately meeting the demands of the counties. She says the authority is only able to supply 60 per cent of the requirements. This has constrained the ability of county governments to ensure their health facilities have adequate drugs and medical supplies, to effectively and efficiently provide service to Kenyans. Currently, counties are barred from procuring the drugs and other medical commodities from any supplier other than Kemsa. Section 4(3) of the parent Act states; “A national or county public health facility shall, in the procurement and distribution of drugs and medical supplies, obtain all such drugs and medical supplies from the authority.” Further, the 2013 Act, amended in May 2019, introduced a jail term of five years or a penalty of Sh2 million or both for anyone who defies the decree. Governors have been pushing for the removal of the provision pushing the counties to strictly procure products from Kemsa. They argue the authority has not been meeting their demands, leading to shortage of essentials in the facilities. However, Mochache rooted for Kemsa, saying all its products undergo thorough tests by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “Currently, in facilitating access by the public to medical products that are of good quality, safety and efficacy, the PPB has facilitated Kemsa access to its register of medical products and technologies. “This ensures the procurement of only authorised medical products,” Mochache told the committee chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito. The PS said Kemsa implements a bulk pooled procurement system therefore benefiting from the economies of scale due to competitive sourcing. This, she added, eventually leads to lower cost of medicines-thus affordability. “We therefore propose to the committee that in considering this bill, it is reiterated that the applicable procurement is only of medical products registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “This will ensure enforcement of the prescribed standards of quality, safety and efficacy of all medicinal substances manufactured, imported or exported,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)