Drought-stricken areas may take a while to recover despite the near average rainfall expected in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, the Met has said. The Meteorological department said shortage of food, water and pasture is likely to persist for some time. The Kenya Meteorological Services released the March-April-May weather outlook on Tuesday. It said despite projected regeneration of pasture and browse, the shortage may lead to human-wildlife and inter-community conflicts. The department said contingency plans and strategies should therefore be put in place. "The national and county governments, as well as humanitarian organisations, are therefore advised to continue with measures that are already being implemented to avert loss of lives, livelihoods and livestock,” the forecast read. Director of meteorological services Stella Aura said the prolonged drought in the ASAL region has led to land degradation and the expected rainfall will lead to further soil erosion. She said the public should put in place soil conservation measures. Aura said the expected enhanced rainfall in these counties, coupled with high temperatures, may also lead to the emergence of pests and diseases. “Relevant authorities are therefore advised to stock enough herbicides and pesticides and to enhance disease surveillance, control and prevention,” she said. The director said the predicted onsets, cessations and distribution of rainfall were derived from statistical analysis of past years – 2008, 2012 and 2021 – that showed similar characteristics to the current year. “The season is expected to experience a normal onset with fair distribution over the areas expected to receive near to above average rainfall and poor distribution in the ASAL region,” Aura said. According to the forecast, enhanced rainfall in some parts of the country is expected to be conducive for agriculture. The met said farming communities in the agricultural counties of Lake Victoria Basin, highlands west and east of the Rift Valley, the south and central Rift Valley and southeastern lowlands should take advantage of the expected rains. These counties include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, West Pokot, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Others are Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Nairobi, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, parts of Tana River and Taita Taveta. “Farmer should maximise on crop yield through appropriate farming and land-use management practices. They should also liaise with the Ministry of Agriculture and agricultural extension officers for further advice,” the Met said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)