Tusker head coach, Robert Matano, showered his charges with rosy words after they surmounted a tough challenge to squeeze out a crucial point against hard-battling Ulinzi Stars. The much-hyped Kenyan Premier League encounter failed to produce the anticipated fireworks after the two sides shared spoils in a drab barren draw at ASK Grounds in Nakuru on Wednesday. The brewers, who were eagerly gunning for maximum points to fire them to the top five, deployed all their ammunitions to drown the resilient soldiers. “We knew it was not going to be easy collecting maximum points against Ulinzi Stars especially at their own backyard,” said Matano. “We played well only that we didn't maximise on our chances. We need to be a little bit sharper in front of goal if we are serious about retaining our title,” he added. His opposite number Benjamin Nyangweso said he was disappointed that they couldn't slaughter their opponents at home after suffering a 2-0 defeat at Ruaraka Grounds over the weekend. “We must always fight to win all our home matches because collecting away points isn't always easy,” said Nyangweso. “All in all, the boys put in a good performance considering we were playing against the defending champions,” said Nyangweso. “We shall work on our shortcomings in the next few days and, hopefully, we shall register better results in our next match,” said Nyangweso. Joseph Njuguna came close to haunting his former side as early as the sixth minute but failed to connect  to a sumptuous volley just 18 yards out. After dialing up pressure in search of the elusive opener, the coach Robert Matano-led charges became increasingly frustrated as the game wore on with no single goal in sight. Bouyed by the trappings of home advantage including a passionate and enthusiastic crowd, Ulinzi Stars dug in and fought tooth and nail. They had the lion's share of opportunities but failed miserably on execution. The soldiers' gaffer Benjamin Nyangweso was forced into an early tactical change, bringing on Glen Wafula after Kevin Ouma was stretchered off with a serious knock. With barely eight minutes left on the clock, Matano effected his final tactical change, introducing Stewart Omondi for Erick Zakayo who had run out of steem. The decision almost paid off when Omondi pounced on a glorious opportunity to break the deadlock in stoppage time, only for his rasping volley to form a mind of its own. The outcome leaves Tusker in the sixth position on the log with 30 points while Ulinzi remain rooted at an unimpressive 13th with 22.