The 2016 Top Fry 1000 Classic Rally champion Raaji Bharij believes a top finish at the East African Safari Classic is within his grasp. Bharij said his main target will be to keep his Ford Mark 1 in tip-top condition in the one-week race, which begins February 10-18. "As far as our team’s ambition for the rally is concerned, firstly we want to ensure the car is in one piece after each leg and secondly to be among the top finishers,” Bharij said. Bharij, who will be navigated by Tauseef Khan, was speaking after receiving a smart vehicle tracking system from Telco giant Safaricom, which will record and provide progress of the two during the rally. The pilot Internet of Things (IoT) will be connected to the vehicle's computer system to collect vital information during the competition, such as driver behaviour, route information, vehicle speed, fuel consumption and journey duration. "We are grateful to Safaricom for their sponsorship and honoured to be piloting their new smart vehicle tracking system," Bharij said. Speaking at the same function, Safaricom CEO Peter Ndegwa said their cooperation with the third-placed finisher in the East African Safari Mini Classic Rally will provide the company with the momentum for rolling out new, exciting IoT solutions. "The telematics offering which we are piloting at the East African Safari Classic Rally allows for visualization of information relating to vehicle performance and efficiency, vehicle status and driver behaviour; providing key information to better manage any fleet," Ndegwa said. Besides his impressive showing at the East African Safari Mini Classic Rally, Bharij finished first in the 2-litre category at the 2015 East African Safari Rally. This year's rally will commence with scrutineering at the Kenya Wildlife Service Training Institute, Naivasha where the event will be flagged off. The action proceeds to Sarova Woodlands, Nakuru, Coverdale in Nanyuki for two days and then Kilima Camp in Amboseli for three days. Thereafter, focus shifts to Salt Lick Lodge at Taita Hills, before terminating at Ocean Sports in Watamu, where winners will be feted.