The government plans to declare Pokot warriors an outlawed group, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said. The warrior-criminals have been blamed for a series of attacks in North Rift that have left dozens dead and injured and hundreds displaced. Fred Matiangi said on Friday that next week he will recommend to the National Security Council that Pokot warriors be declared an outlawed group. “The recommended categorisation will allow for more forceful interventions against the group,” he said. The CS spoke while issuing padlocks for national exams at the Kenya School of Government in Kabete, Nairobi. An operation is underway but the gang or gangs keep breaching security measures. Officials are considering placing sections of North Rift under curfew. The gangs have been launching attacks before stealing livestock and property. Sometimes they just kill and injure residents and torch property. Matiang'i expressed regret and outrage at an attack on a school bus by gunmen in Tot, Elgeyo Marakwet, on Thursday at 10.3-pm. The driver was killed and at least 15 students injured. It was not established why a school bus and children were attacked. Matiangi said government policy prohibits school buses on the roads after 6.30pm. School administrators violated the policy, he said. “The fact the area is prone to banditry attacks should have informed more caution by the school administration," he said. The CS ordered the immediate arrest and prosecution of the principal for violating the policy and for negligence. He said more arrests will likely follow after full investigations. He warned school management that violating the policing on bus movement hours will attract arrests and prosecution. The CS said called the attack a clear case of criminal aggression masquerading as cattle rustling and cultural practice. “The ministry has put in place adequate measures to secure both the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) scheduled to begin next month. There are fears insecurity will disrupt the exercise," Matiang'i said. (Edited by V. Graham)