@Yobramos4 Mombasa woman representative Asha “Ashu” Hussein has launched her re-election bid with a warning to her rivals that she is no pushover. The legislator had kept her rivals and supporters alike guessing which seat she will go for in the August general election. However, Asha has confirmed she will be defending her seat through her ODM party. The MP spoke at the Tononoka grounds on Friday during the disbursement of empowerment funds. “Those worrying about whether I will defend my seat or not should rest easy. Nowhere is it written a woman representative should go for one term. “So I announce to you that I will be defending my seat,” Asha said. The legislator issued Sh15.3 million worth of cheques for empowerment to 96 different groups, including persons living with disability. She also distributed another Sh3.8 million worth of educational bursaries and another Sh1.8 million for civic education. The Mombasa woman representative seat has attracted at least seven hopefuls including Miraj Abdirahman (UDA), Hamisa Zaja, Fatma Baryan, Amina Abdalla, Zam Zam and Maimuna Mwawasi. Asha said she has matured in the political circles and would not let anyone mudsling her, calling for maturity in Mombasa politics. “We do not fear. I am steadfast. I helped build ODM and I will not leave,” she said. President Uhuru recently signed into law the Political Parties (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which among other things makes it difficult for a politician to move to another party after a defeat in party primaries, unlike before. People who are not registered party members will not participate in party nominations. “We passed a law in Parliament the other day, anyone who fails in the primaries should support the winner and not jump ship,” Asha said. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has since set April 16 – 22  for conducting of party primaries. The MP said she is ready to face anyone for the ODM ticket in the party primaries and the August 9 election. She said she is a soldier fighting for ODM leader Raila Odinga to become the next president. The legislator added that that will be achieved because of the strength of the party at the grassroots, especially in Mombasa. “No other party is as strong as ODM in Mombasa,” she said. Asha urged more women to seek elective seats saying there is strength in numbers. “But as we seek those seats, let us be good ambassadors and urge our people to register as voters,” she said. The MP said the Kenyan cake is big and will be enough for everyone who will be willing to join Azimio La Umoja Movement. “Our main agenda as Azimio is pushing Raila to State House. But the national cake is big. Everyone will get their equal share, even Kalonzo Musyoka, who I believe is on his way,” she said. The woman representative said she will work with any other women willing to work with her without discrimination. “You don’t have to pass through any other person to get to me,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)