Done campaigning for the day, Ponda Mali is in a super jolly mood. “That went well, don’t you think?” he asks, his eyes roving. The answers range from sucking-up to the downright inane. “You were terrific, Mkubwa.” “No one could’ve done it better.” “Your oratory prowess is beyond compare.” “They won’t need supper tonight, sir. Not after the way they ate up your every word.” Ponda Mali cocks his head at me. “What about you, Mashini?” “My name is Makini,” I shoot back. “Alright, Makini, hoping you’re as keen as your name, how do you reckon it went?” “I’m only a police officer in your security detail, sir. I’m not at liberty to comment.” “Uongo! You just don’t like me, isn’t that it? Your colleague, Madam Makali, seems taken with me. So, what’s your problem? Tell me. What can I do to win you over?” “Honestly? As a servant of the people, you could start by getting the names of those you serve right. I’m Makini, my colleague is Sergeant Kali, not Makali.” His face clouds up. “I’m afraid I’m not good with names. I believe if I didn’t sign cheques all day, I’d forget my own name.” His sycophants laugh at his attempted joke. “And I mean cheques for public projects, of course.” “Of course, you do.” He winces at the sarcasm in my voice, then he smiles and puts an arm around me all friendly like. “Tell you what, all that talking has me pretty thirsty. Is there a place around here where we can wet our throats?” “The only joint here is called ‘Shimo la Pewa’,” an aide says. “Kind of a dump, though.” “Shimo la Pewa sounds perfect. Tell them to hold everything they have. Tonight, the tab’s on me.” I have to give it to the fat politician. His powers of persuasion are beyond compare. Less than an hour after sitting down at the bar, I’m on my third beer, meaning I’m already hammered. “Like I was saying,” Ponda Mali says (I had no idea he had been talking). “Let’s assume that some poor lass will accept to be shackled to you for life, you know, be your wife. Then you two do the birds and bees thing and voila! You have tots running around. Imagine a dystopian scenario where all kids are thrown into one huge, unsupervised nursery to grow up on their own. How do you think they’d turn out?” “Unsupervised? Who feeds them?” “Let’s say, food and water go down a chute.” “Like rabbits? Okay, what about cleaning their poop. They get to poop, don’t they?” “The question’s not in the details. I’m asking generally.” “Children need parenting to learn morals,” Sgt Sophia says from the opposite side of the table, “if that’s what you’re alluding to.” Ponda wags a finger at her. “You’re too smart for this backwater village. What I’m saying is, collectively, citizens are like children in a cage. With time, someone has to take charge; to guide, nurture, manage the rest. That’s where we, politicians, come in.” “He means they’re a necessary evil,” says Sophia. “Hey, whose side are you on?” shouts Ponda, twisting his face. “I’m just saying. Law enforcement is a necessary evil, too. No one wants to lose his freedom, no matter how much of a douche bag he is.” I look daggers at her. “Seriously, whose side are you on?” “The law’s.” Sophia stands up. “And if we don’t leave now, I’ll have to arrest this lecherous bastard for continuously running his foot up my leg under the table.”