Three ministers in the Kisii government are among top public servants who have resigned to contest political seats in the August 9 election. The three ministers include Charles Onyancha (Water, Environment and Natural Resources), Vincent Sagwe (Roads and Public Works) and Duke Mainga (Youth and sports). Onyancha will contest the Kisii senator’s seat while Sagwe is eyeing the Nyaribari Chache parliamentary seat. Mainga is yet to indicate which seat he will contest but reports indicate he is going for the senator’s seat. Others who have resigned are municipal board member Pius Abuki who is in the race for the Kitutu Chache South parliamentary seat. Also, county public service board member Jeriah Bosibori who is eyeing an MCA seat. County secretary Patrick Lumumba confirmed the resignations. “So far those are the names of the public servants who have resigned to join politics. If more people resign, I will inform you,” Lumumba said. He at the same time refuted reports that he had resigned to join politics. “The reports that I have resigned are false. As we speak I’m in the office discharging my duties as county secretary,” he told the Star in a phone interview on Wednesday. Initially, reports indicated that he had been approached to be a running mate for a leading aspirant. With six months to the next general elections, it’s unclear if Governor James Ongwae will replace the ministers who resigned. He is likely to assign the remaining ministers the roles of those who have resigned. Sagwe, Onyancha and Mainga thanked Governor Ongwae for giving them an opportunity to serve the people of Kisii county. In neighbouring Nyamira, according to county secretary James Ntabo, director of finance Phillip Nyanumba Machuki is among top civil servants who have resigned. He will contest the Bomachoge Borabu parliamentary seat which is currently held by Zadoc Ogutu. Others are Nyamira municipal manager Jackson Mogusu who will seek to reclaim the Nyansiongo ward seat and senior accountant Bernard Aboko who is eyeing an MCA seat. Kisumu Education director Isaac Atebe also resigned to contest the North Mugirango parliamentary seat. Atebe, the son of deceased former MP Atebe Mariita, will challenge incumbent Joash Nyakoko and 10 others. The resignations are in compliance with section 43(5) of the Elections Act that require public officers wishing to contest in elective positions to leave office six months before the election date. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)