Visitor Mapwanya has finally taken control of the Karen leg of Safari Tour with a decent round of two under par 70 at the par 72 Karen Country Club course. The Zimbabwean pro, who jointly led the proceedings with Kenyan Simon Ngige at halfway stage, goes into Wednesday’s final round ready to clinch his maiden Safari Tour event. En-route to his penultimate round dominance, Mapwanya picked eight pars at the front nine, where he incidentally dropped a shot at the 433-yard long par four-fourth after a bad approach shot. He then birdied the 10th, 12th, and 14th hole, for a 14 under par 202, to take a one-shot lead from his countryman Robson Chinhoi. “I think I have a good chance to win my first Safari Tour title despite missing several birdie opportunities in the third round. It was nice playing with Simon Ngige and of course, Robson Chinhoi who is a very good player,’’ said Mapwanya, who will once again lead the team of Chinhoi and Ngige in the final round. On the other hand, Chinhoi who made five birdies at the back nine including a two-footer at the 18th said he had moved closer to the title. “I would not mind though if Mapwanya or Ngige wins because they are very playful, but I will still give it my best," said Chinhoi after his birdie on the 18th. He birdied one hole at the outward nine’s fourth hole, then collected birdies at the 11th and 12th 15th and 16th, and of course at the home green, for the day’s five-under-par 67 and a total of 13 under par 203. It was not a good day for Ngige who said his driving was not as perfect as he had planned. “I dropped three shots at the front nine because of my tee shots particularly at the third where I pushed to the left, got out well then hit it to the bunker having made a birdie at the second, then came the two bogeys at the seventh and eighth," said Ngige. He, however, said he will still go for the title in Wednesday’s final round. “It is not over yet, as I believe I am capable of pushing myself to the top if I am able to take off well from the tee tomorrow’’ said Ngige who bogeyed the 15th but made a bogey at the 18th for one over 73 and an aggregate of 11 under par 203. This was just a shot better than Dismas Indizam who shot four-under-par 68 to move to fourth place on 10 under par 206. At least 12 players were on under-par scores at the close of round three, an indication of a tough encounter during the final day. Depending on the scores, the winner is at least assured of Sh250,000. There will be added bonus money if the winner scores all under-par scores in each round.  