Oka principals have said they are ready to team up with other parties, except those whose leaders have been tainted by corruption. The leaders spoke during Narc Kenya’s National Delegates Congress held at Ufungamano House in Nairobi on Friday. The principals said they will seek partnerships with like-minded parties whose top agenda is fighting corruption. During the event, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua got the greenlight from delegates, to enter into coalitions ahead of polls. Karua said she will be seeking partnerships with leaders who share her core values. “I am glad you have given me the go ahead to look for partners and I assure you that I will not abuse the trust you have bestowed on me. "I will be looking for partners who share our ideals. People who want to end corruption in this country,” she said. Echoing her sentiments were Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party) and Mukhisa Kituyi (Sauti ya Wazalendo Party). Gideon said Kanu will walk with Narc Kenya as the country heads to the general election. “We want to be associated with people who know the value of a corrupt free country. We want to go the Chinese way in dealing with corruption though we know human rights organisations may have problems with us,” he said. Jirongo said Kenyans should shun leaders “who look at taxes and public resources as personal wealth.” “As Oka, we are determined to ensure any negotiation we go into is in the interest of Kenyans. We are not looking for positions. We have experience and we are committed. The more we are the better,” he said. Kituyi said Kenyans should reject leaders who are not keen to end corruption. “Corruption has never developed any country. In Oka and Azimio la Umoja, we have a shared direction,” he said. Kalonzo said Oka leaders will tackle corruption “head on” after the elections. “Everybody is saying they will fight corruption but are they serious?" he asked. Karua said ordinary Kenyans are going through economic hardships that have been brought about by corruption and national debt. "We want to listen to the people who will tell us how they intend to protect resources. You can have all those wonderful ideas but if corruption is allowed to thrive, Kenyans will continue to suffer," she said. Karua said Narc Kenya doors are wide open and they will be listening to all sides. "We are a social democratic party and we will therefore be ready to work with people who want basic needs provided to Kenyans as outlined in the Constitution. “When people knock on your doors, you open. We will look at what they were yesterday but interrogate what they intend to achieve now and in the future,” she said. Karua also said Oka will strengthen the culture of obeying the rule of law and constitutionalism. “Kenyans should elect leaders who are fit for office. Elect good leaders at the county level because the president will not come to manage your resources at the grassroots,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)