It is no secret that Nairobi is a concrete jungle where the strongest survive. In my mother tongue, we say "Nairobi onge min ng'ato" (There is no one in this city to pamper you like your mother). This saying implies the cut-throat nature of the city and the self-centredness of most people. Nowhere is this exhibited than on our roads, where every driver is always looking to get to their destinations fast, sometimes at the cost of antagonising other road users. If you are a motorist starting out your driving experience in the capital, you will need the following non-motoring skills to survive. 1. Patience Patience is a virtue, they say, and you will need lots of it if you are to safeguard your sanity. Sitting in traffic jams for hours and run-ins with errant matatu drivers can make you pull out your hair at most times. Therefore, you will need to accept the fact that not every road user in Nairobi is as rational as you. With this realisation, it would be best to understand such characters and be mentally prepared to swat them aside and maintain your focus on your destination. 2. Negotiation skills You may not need to have the gift of the garb, but regardless, you will need to be a good talker to wiggle yourself out of difficult situations. Like it or not, you will always find yourself in unpleasant scenarios, where you'll need a sweet tongue to survive. Whether this be a traffic violation — at which point you'll need to convince the police officer to go easy on you — or a minor accident with a fellow motorist, negotiation skills will come in handy to ensure you do not jump from the frying pan into the fire. 3. Mental geography A former professor of mine — God rest his soul in peace — used to emphasise on the need to be knowledgeable on the different, alternative routes to your destination. Rather than following the usual path to his workplace — which meant spending hours in traffic — my professor would usually take alternative routes and get to his office in approximately 15 minutes. He referred to this skill as mental geography. 4. Time management With the ongoing construction of the Nairobi Expressway, traffic snarl-ups have become unpredictable. It is nowadays common to find traffic jams even on off-peak hours as well as on weekends. Therefore, you will need to be an efficient manager of your time to avoid any inconveniences. In case of an urgent meeting, it would be in your best interest to take into consideration the possibility of a traffic jam and leave your house early enough. 5. Research skills The automobile spare part and repair market is littered with many attractive offers. Unfortunately, many of these products and services may end up damaging your car. Furthermore, fraudsters abound in the market and won't hesitate to swindle you if they discover that you are new to the game. Proper research on your part will be necessary to ensure you get quality for your expenses. Apart from the Internet, you can also compare notes with friends and family who have been car owners for a longer time than you.