Egerton University still operates with high debts exceeding more than Sh4.7 billion, which is almost double the value of its assets. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said the university has assets valued at about Sh2 billion, hence, it has negative working capital of Sh2.7 billion. Gathungu in her latest audit for 2019-20 says the management of the university failed to disclose the material uncertainty of the university as a going concern in its financial statements. “This casts significant doubt on the ability of the university to continue as a going concern. Consequently, the continued survival of the university as a going concern is dependent on continued government and creditors support," Gathungu said. She said the financial statements of the university reflected receivables from exchange transactions balance of Sh1.5 billion. The balance includes student debtors' amount of Sh953 million which is an increase of Sh83 million from Sh870 million as at 30 June 30, 2019. She said analysis of the debtors revealed that 88 per cent or Sh835.5 million had been outstanding for more than 120 days. “Although Management explained the increase to be a result of students sitting for exams and graduating with fee balances, no measures have been put in place for the recovery from students who have completed their course," Gathungu said. At the same time, she said, the statement of comparison of the budget and actual amounts reflects final revenue budget and actual on a comparative basis of Sh5.4 billion and Sh4.5 billion, respectively. This resulted in under collection of Sh932.5 million or 17 per cent. Similarly, she said, the statement reflects final expenditure, budget and actual, on comparable basis of Sh5.3 billon and Sh5.2 billion, respectively, resulting in  ver expenditure of Sh103.9 million or 2 per cent of the budget. “The underfunding affected the planned activities and may have impacted negatively on service delivery to the public,” Gathungu said Gathungu said the financial statements of the university also included statutory deductions and taxes totalling Sh1.9 billion, which has not been remitted despite their due dates having long passed. The Auditor General also said the university’s financial statements disclosed pension employer contribution of Sh258.9 million. However, examination of the bank statements for the period revealed that management only paid Sh24.5 million out of an unpaid amount of Sh229.6 million. “There is no evidence of remittances of employees’ contribution for the year amounting to Sh121.2 million," Gathungu said. She said non-remittance is contrary to Section 53A (1) of the Retirement Benefits Act, 1997. She said failure to remit the statutory deductions on time resulted in the university incurring interest and penalties. (Edited by V. Graham)