Homa Bay governor aspirant Oyugi Magwanga has urged residents to treat as propaganda claims that some politicians have bagged the ODM ticket. He said the party's national elections board through its chairperson Catherine Mmuma had clarified they do not have preferred candidates ahead of the primaries. Magwanga claimed that such misinformation can be used by opponents to discourage ODM members in the county who would want to vote for him as the party's flagbearer for the governor's seat during nominations. “We have met the party elections board more than twice and they have refuted claims of having preferred candidates. Those who still say they have already bagged tickets have a hidden agenda,” the former Kasipul MP said. He was speaking at Wang’apala grounds in Kabondo Kasipul constituency on Tuesday. ODM is the dominant party in Homa Bay and politicians who clinch its nomination ticket have higher chances of winning elections. In the two previous general election, residents have voted for ODM candidates from MPs, Woman Representative, senator and governor. Out of 60 MCAs, 58 belong to the party. Magwanga asked residents not to get threatened and intimidated through such rumours. “ODM had assured members and aspirants to conduct credible party nominations. Such propaganda should therefore not be listened to,” he added. Party leader Raila Odinga has on several occasions been heard saying that they will want to approach the August 9 elections as a united team, adding that nominations will be favourable to all participants. Raila said they will prioritise consensus among other strategies such as  universal suffrage and direct ticket. He said the party treats all aspirants equally without any favour. “Let nobody think they are more equal than others in ODM. What we want is respect and peace during campaigns because we belong to one team,” Raila said in Homa Bay. Magwanga is among 10 aspirants who are competing to clinch the ODM party ticket for Homa Bay governor's seat after Governor Cyprian Awiti two terms expire. Other contenders are Awiti’s deputy Hamilton Orata, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Suba South MP John Mbadi and Homa Bay county secretary Isaiah Ogwe. Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko, businessmen Jared Kiasa and Louis Ogingo are also in the race. “My ticket will come from votes cast by residents of Homa Bay. I need your support,” Magwanga said. Edited by A.N