Northeastern regional commissioner James Kianda has urged residents to cooperate with the state in fighting against terrorists. Kianda said for a region to be completely secure and devoid of any attacks, there must be cooperation between the security teams and wananchi. The RC spoke on Wednesday in his Garissa office as he laid out his plans for the region. This follows the recent terror attacks in Mandera and Wajir counties that left 11 people dead and dozens injured. Kianda said information sharing is key in deterring any would be attacks. He said all citizens should be patriotic at heart adding that this was the only sure way of protecting our motherland against individuals with an evil mind of causing bloodshed and killing. On January 12, Kianda replaced Nicodemus Ndalana as the new Northeastern regional commissioner. Ndalana was moved to the Office of the President in Nairobi. Kianda brings a wealth of experience, having worked as an assistant county commissioner and rose through the ranks. He emphasised on the need to cut the relationship with criminals "because we have nothing to gain by engaging with them but stand to loose. “We want the public to understand that intelligence is very important. Wherever these attacks are happening, there must be a local component. "There must be a herder there who is keeping animals, somebody who is crossing from a village to another or someone driving there,” Kianda said. He urged the public to open up and provide information. "Let them trust us as security agents, we will treat the information with confidence and act promptly,” he added. The RC said where there is mistrust between the public and the police, information is concealed. He said replacing public properties destroyed during the attacks robs the taxpayers of the resources meant for development. On illegal immigrants, Kianda said security officers in the region have arrested over 80 people who were illegally in the country. "We are encouraging our officers especially in Wajir, where more cases have been reported to continue with that work,” he said. The RC also said they will have zero tolerance on drugs and contraband goods. “We are not going to tolerate under any circumstance any illegal or non-custom goods. "It is something I have declared to the security team and we have agreed that we are going to treat this matter with the urgency it deserves,” he said Kianda said there is a team in place working on the issue. “Last week, we intercepted quite a number of contraband goods that were being transported through Ijara and handed them to the Kenya Revenue Authority. "We also intercepted a number of buses carrying contraband goods at the Tana bridge police block,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)