The construction of classrooms meant to host junior secondary learners is set for completion before the national examinations. According to the education calendar, the 2021 KCPE exam will be done between March 7 and 10. Learners will sit KCSE between March 11 and April 1. Magoha was speaking at Parklands Arya Girls where he commissioned a CBC classroom on Monday. He said the ministry will ensure no outsiders are within school premises overseeing classroom construction. “In terms of target of completion, it is the end of this month, the big standard deviation of seven days, March 1 to March 7. Come March 7 we don’t want contractors in our schools,” he said. Despite harsh conditions facing a number of areas like Baringo and Lamu, Magoha promised to hit the target and finish on time. "We don’t trust anyone with our children when they are doing exams; we are going to meet this target. Generally, we are at about 66 per cent overall in terms of completion,” Magoha said. The second phase of construction of CBC classrooms is set to start in May after the marking of exams. On county ratings, the education boss said Nyanza and North Eastern are doing well in achieving set targets. “We are proceeding extremely well, the best region is undoubtedly the North Eastern region because Garissa is at 93 per cent, Mandera is at 81 percent and Wajir is also doing well,” he said. Magoha further lashed out at school heads using infrastructure funds to conduct other projects. He lauded Bungoma D.E.B Primary school for using the funds well, constructing three classrooms with the funds disbursed. "We have confirmed only a few days ago that the money I gave them, Sh2million was used to construct three classrooms. So there are teachers who don’t put that money in their pockets,” he said. He also thanked the area MP for supporting the construction of classrooms in the constituency. "We also learned that Wafula Wamunyinyi gave Sh5.6million that was used to construct nine classrooms, so all this looking for Sh1.26million will not be allowed, classrooms will be built at that price,” he added. In Nairobi County, only 78 schools will benefit from the classrooms project. The first CBC classroom was commissioned in the Eastern region in Meru County in January 2022. About 8.1 million learners are in the current CBC and the pioneer cohort is expected to transit to junior secondary in 2023. The government already disbursed Sh8 billion to improve infrastructure and build 10,000 classrooms for junior secondary learners by next year.