February is the month of love and a time of the year when couples express their love for each other in varied ways. On the 14th day, some take their partners out to dinners and others plan a surprise at home. There is no set rule on how to express love, affection, and appreciation on this day. The Star on Sunday interviewed a few people on how they planned to celebrate this day. For some flowers, wine and fine dining are overrated and for others, it's pure bliss. “Fine dining is not overrated as such, it depends on what people believe it is. I believe this can be done at home, make a fine meal for your partner, dress up well, just like a normal date, but with a little spice,” Kanini Faith, 32, said. For Kenneth Murimi, 29, Valentine’s Day is just a waste of time and resources and it creates an environment full of fantasy. “Honestly Kenyan’s need to wake up, especially ladies, they put this pressure on Kenyan men because of what they see on social media. I am single, but if I ever get a girl, I believe enjoying each other’s company is better than me wasting money in an expensive restaurant,” Murimi said. “You take them in a restaurant and they end up spending most of their time on their phones and taking pictures of food instead of talking to you, let’s go on a picnic instead.” Fine dining refers to a restaurant experience that is of a higher quality and greater formality compared to a casual restaurant. The atmosphere there is elegant, and the food is served more formally. Judith Kagenia, 36, and a mother of 2 says her husband surprised her with a ticket to Zanzibar for 5 days. “To be honest, I was not pumped up for this Valentine. The pandemic craze killed the vibe. I was planning to bake a cake and cook for him and the kids and call it a day. We will be flying on Tuesday. I also need to go and get him something small,” Kagenia said. However,  she said she is excited, as it will her first time on a plane. "This is way better than fine dining, which we might end up using the same amount on one night,” she said. A lot of opinions will be out there about this decision, but I think, fine dining comes down to what company you are with at that moment. The food comes in as a bonus to the good time that both of you are enjoying. Yes, you can dine at home, a cheap restaurant or a 5 star, all in all, what counts is are you with the one you love? A picnic, something exotic, a meal or an experience you’ve never had before will make that hangout memorable. If she is used to flowers, chocolate etc, try to give or do something different. You don’t need to spend a lot of money to eat good food, but having new unique experiences once in a while can give you a great sense of accomplishment, excitement and relaxation. Remember, be yourself, do what you can and afford. There is no need to prove a point if she or he loves you, she or he will appreciate the little you bring to the table and vice versa. But remember, effort matters, so the little small things matter as well. Period.