With the pandemic hitting hard, finding love has not been easy as well. The smartphone is seemingly the best thing that ever happened to online dating because perhaps a single swipe could soothe your lonely heart. Janet Kisoso, 25, told the Star on Saturday, that she has used both tinder and bumble and says that there are pros and cons of each. “To be honest, I choose to sign up for tinder because I have several friends who found love there, but I was not looking for a serious relationship. Tinder is simple to use, but I think it is harder to actually get a perfect match,” she said. “With Bumble, I feel you get a little closure on who you are talking to on the other end, the only con there is that the woman has to message first, and sometimes, a simple hi does not cut it.” This feature, which Mark Owino, 32, agrees on is a bummer as it keeps the man waiting on the other end. “The lady has 24 hours to message you, meaning if she is not active when you match, she might ‘miss’ the chance to meet a handsome man like me,” Owino said. "I prefer tinder because I can make a move to a girl I like." According to bumble, the restricting feature works because it can result in more quality conversations, dates or even long-lasting relationships. Others have, however, accused bumble of being a feminist app that puts women in control and also goes to an extent of banning shirtless selfies at non-beach locations, mirror photos, photos in bed or hallway and those with guns. Tinder on the other hand requires more patience due to many fake or stalker profiles, gender imbalance and the audience there mostly have varying agendas. Both apps however have people seeking relationships and people seeking hook-ups. Be sure to analyse prompts, bios, first impressions and mostly follow your gut. If you happen to meet, be sure to meet at a place you are familiar with or at a public place. Weather bumble is better than tinder, it really depends on your location, lifestyle, age, personal interests and other factors. Piece of advice though, once you download the app of your choice, don’t assume every guy or girl is interested in you, many of them are lazy people who upon swiping on every woman, play the numbers game and then focus on who is most eager and enthusiastic to meet them. Overall, the best thing to do is try both apps for a few days to see how you feel. You never know — you could meet someone on Tinder that you really click with right away.