Jubilee leaders in the Mt Kenya are relying on visits by President Kenyatta to help them beat an expected strong showing by UDA. The President is expected to visit the region mounting political wars with his deputy who has been traversing the area. The leaders said the President’s appearance would strengthen Jubilee’s presence and would help to water down Ruto’s UDA influence. The Jubilee leaders are said to have convinced several defectors who had followed DP William Ruto to rejoin the party. Leaders marketing Jubilee in Mt Kenya include former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, nominated MP Maina Kamanda, Wangari Mwaniki (Kigumo), Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga), Peter Kimari (Mathioya), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa) and former Murang’a Senator Kembi Gitura. Others are Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Sabina Chege (Murang’a), James Nyoro (Kiambu), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu) and former CS C Kariuki among others. During the recent meetings in Sagana and KICC, President Kenyatta assured his supporters of a titanic battle for the party to reclaim its lost glory. Uhuru said Jubilee has been working, dispelling rumours it was dead. Ruto during his latest tour in the Mt Kenya region said the Jubilee outfit is on a roller coaster to self-destruction after Uhuru allies subjected members allied to him to the chopping board instead of ironing out problems. Speaking to Star on Monday, Jubilee nominated Senator Isaac Ngugi said the outfit is alive and strong, dismissing critics. He said President Kenyatta is expected to tour the whole of Mt Kenya region commissioning projects before he exits office and campaign for the party and its candidates. Ngugi was confident a lot of politicians who had left the party and joined UDA are on their way back to the Jubilee party. “We are ready to receive them and they should come back with zero demand,” he said. Kirinyaga women representative Purity Ngirichi is said to be warming for the Jubilee ticket after her fall out with the UDA party. Last week Wednesday, Ngirichi attended President Kenyatta’s Sagana meeting after she recently met Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. Juja parliamentary aspirant Karanja Ngarachu told the Star he has left the UDA party and joined Jubilee after fearing he might be rigged out during the nomination exercise. He said the recent move by Uhuru to show a willingness to revive the party has worked well with leaders who had left the party. He said the recent grassroots mobilisations on constituency and ward level can’t be underscored as they always offer the region the necessary political direction. “Uhuru as the holder of this position is the most capable person to give the region the necessary direction and this is the reason why we are coming back to make the party strong again,” Ngarachu said. He said President Kenyatta’s Mt Kenya troops have rolled out an aggressive campaign to axe DP William Ruto’s perceived influence in the region and the recent installation of Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni gave the party a new life. Mt Kenya MCAs caucus chairman Charles Mwangi Ng’ang’a said it’s only a fool who can imagine that Uhuru doesn’t command the region. Political analyst and columnist with Star Albert Kasembeli said most of the aspirants in Mt Kenya will have to rally behind Uhuru Kenyatta for them to win their respective seats. He said the party in 2017 was in hurry to form a strong coalition without considering a strong foundation that would last them for years. “If Jubilee is to remain alive even after revamping, it will not have the impact it had in the last election. The fact that it has united with ODM and another associate party, it will now concentrate more on its strongholds and might not field candidates in opposition zone,” he said. Former Kirinyaga Central MP Joseph Gitari who has since joined UDA  said Jubilee aspirants will have a rough time while campaigning. He said the revival of Jubilee has not been felt on the ground compared to their party. “It’s too later for the Jubilee party to revive, we as UDA are miles ahead and thus we can’t compete on the same platform,” he said. Nominated senator Maina Kamanda during a recent interview said  Jubilee will only contest in friendly areas that it commands. He said in Nairobi, they will hold a joint nomination and field strong and popular candidates. Edited by Kiilu Damaris