Luanda MP Chris Omulele has told ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi that no one is forced to support the presidential bid of ODM leader Raila Odinga. The lawmaker said Kenya is a democratic nation where people are free to support a candidate of their choice. Omulele said the claim by Kenya Kwanza that they have been cornered by the state to support Raila is just a fallacy. The MP said he has been in ODM since 2013 when he was elected for Luanda constituency and he will remain loyal to ODM party. Nothing will change him that. “If my brother has chosen to work with DP Ruto, it's his democratic right and we shall respect that, but he shouldn’t mislead other people into his personal interests,” Omulele said. Omulele, who spoke to the Star via phone, said Azimio La Umoja through the leadership of Raila will clinch the top seat. "President Uhuru Kenyatta knows democracy counts and he can't impose a leader on Kenyans because the ballot will decide," he said. "What the President can do as head of state is to ensure that he leaves the nation in safe hands, nothing else," Omulele added. Omulele's sentiments came after Kenya Kwanza principals convened a consultative meeting for Western at Mululu village chaired by Mudavadi. While addressing the delegations from across from Western region, Mudavadi accused the head of state of imposing Raila Odinga on Kenyans. "Even  most ​of these MPs ​and governors who you ​ see ​following this Kitendawili man are not the​re ​ will​ingly, ​ but the situation at hand has forced them," Mudavadi said. "At the Naivasha meeting those governors were being given their files on how they have misused public funds through corrupt deals that they can't evade and that's why they are there," he said. The ANC party leader further said even MPs have embezzled funds in NG-CDF and that is why they have been held hostage. "Uhuru should tell us why he is so interested in Odinga's presidential bid," he said. But Omulele dismissed the claims, saying he is clean on CDF. He said the ODM party has opened their doors for other parties that wish to strengthen their coalition. The lawmaker said with a strong coalition they will sweep away Kenya Kwanza like a tsunami. Previously, Governor Wilber Ottichilo challenged Mudavadi to join Azimio, saying in that camp Mudavadi's political career will shine. "What I am sure of is once Baba is done he will pass that baton to my brother here, but he can't do so if he is not helping him to pull that rope to our side," Ottichilo said. Edited by Henry Makori