As a latter-day millennial, I’ve always felt stuck between the older and traditional generation and the younger, more open generation. I was part of the last generation that was raised by the ‘Silent Generation’, that is the pre-boomer generation. My grandmother and great grandmother played significant roles in our upbringing. They instilled in us traditionalist values, modesty and grace. However, I was also part of the first generation to interact with the advancement of technology and the birth of the Internet in my childhood and youth. (Hands up if you played classic Nintendo or had a Tamagotchi). As such, I have come to be intimately familiar with the best and worst of both worlds. Each generation has opened our eyes to the faults and decency of society. This is also why I believe Millennials are the most rounded individuals. But hey, that’s a debate for another day. From our elders, we learnt that silence is golden. From the younger generation, we are learning how to speak up without fear. Most of us grew up seeing injustices that occurred in our everyday lives, whether it be racism, tribalism, classism, abuse or other types of intolerances. Back then, people used to tolerate such discriminations silently because they knew they had no voice. Since we have seen first-hand what happens to those who suffer in silence, we decided to be the breakers of cycles. That we shall no longer “take it on the chin”. An interesting Twitter discussion caught my attention some days ago. The woman tweeted about how she had told off a security guard at the airport for allowing a white couple and their teenage son to park in a no-parking zone just so they can have easy access to their terminal. The discussion that followed was interesting to say the least. As I scrolled through the comments, I realised that I have found my people. That we will not stay quiet if treated unfairly, nor will we cower when facing off with the bourgeoisie or the mean, old folks. I have always been one to call out unfair treatment, especially in the service industry. In my article, Do foreigner tourists get treated better? I stated my observation about the different treatment of locals and foreigners by our own brothers and sisters in the hospitality sector. Mind you, this was at the height of the Covid pandemic. Right after the borders opened, my husband and I set sail as booming patriots to tour the country and help recover the economy. Only to find out that we would often be second-best to the few foreign tourists who dared to travel in those uncertain times. In any situation where I was treated second-best, I made sure to let the offender know I would not stand for it. In other cases, I would speak to the manager and his manager, if possible. In other cases, I would follow up with the organisation via social media or email. I found that voicing my concern and displeasure at the ill treatment not only made the management apologise profusely but it also showed them that we will stand up for equality. Times have changed and there is no space for narrow-mindedness. Speaking up for ourselves is not only saved for facing injustices externally but also internally. Within our families and close circles, we have been raised in a culture of not talking back or not expressing ourselves freely. This culture has encouraged abusers and leeches, who take advantage of young people who are bound by made-up societal laws not to fight back. Not anymore. We have decided to break toxic cultures and cycles.