Kenya Kwanza principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula on Friday met 4,000 delegates in a bid to consolidate their support in Western region. The meeting at Musalia's Mululu home in Vihiga county is the duo's latest plan to turn the tables on ODM boss Raila Odinga in the region. While addressing the delegation, Mudavadi defended his deal with Deputy President William Ruto, saying he will liberate the country and the people of Western region He said despite the region supporting Raila for decades, the ODM boss has taken them for granted. "We have heard Odinga saying that since handshake, Nyanza has gained much development. What of Western?" Mudavadi posed. He said the region has suffered under the handshake. Mudavadi said while President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday outlined what his region has gained, Western Kenya never featured. "Some leaders are so arrogant and think they have the capacity to lecture us on who should be elected," he said. "I'm humble but not foolish. We will not allow Kenyans to suffer on imposed leadership in this country." Mudavadi said the ballot will determine who will lead the country and not President Kenyatta. "Uhuru Kenyatta has only one vote and he can't control the 20 million plus voters countrywide," he said. Mudavadi accused Uhuru of being obsessed with power, saying that is why he is struggling to fix in Raila as his successor. Wetang'ula urged Uhuru to control his emotions. "Mr President, if you continue losing temper as you did in Sagana 3 then you will ruin this nation," he said. "We urge you to follow in former President Kibaki footsteps and leave Kenya at peace," Wetang'ula said. Former CS Rashid Echesa congratulated Mudavadi and Wetang'ula for stamping their authority in the Luhya Nation. While addressing the delegation, he said time has come for Western Kenya to realise the importance of having power. "DAP-K is with Uhuru under CS Eugene Wamalwa because Jubilee is rejected," Echesa said. "We in Kenya Kwanza will win the seat and I can justify it because Uhuru's mood can tell." Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale said the region's economy will continue ailing unless Kenya Kwanza forms the next government. "We are joining hands with DP Ruto to ensure we have power," he said. Khalwale urged Mulembe nation to work as a team to ensure they ascend to power. Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala challenged Uhuru to lower the prices of milk and cooking gas. He accused Raila of disrespecting Luhya leaders by "calling them dogs". "Raila should tell us which university he went to. He should tell us who his classmates were," he said.  