The family of abducted clinician Jackson Kabuu is holding onto hope that he is still safe and alive. Kabuu, a clinical officer working at Fino Health Centre in Mandera, was abducted by suspected al Shabaab militants on Friday. His family is still waiting for communication from the government more than 48 hours after his abduction. David, Jackson’s younger brother, said despite the prayers and messages of comfort from friends, the suspense on the safety and whereabouts of his brother is worrying. Kabuu, the firstborn in a family of three, has been the family breadwinner. His abduction has left his mother heartbroken and a shadow of herself. “I know the Northeastern border is porous. I chatted with him last week via messages because he told me not to call as the security there was not good,” David told the Star on the phone. “The government has remained silent over the matter. We have not received any information from the authorities. We are still giving our mum hope,” he added. Police reports indicated that the militants struck at 7.30pm on Friday and went straight to the houses where three medical officers lived. The three were ordered to board a vehicle which is said to have crossed the border into Somalia. Two of the kidnapped officers were locals, but Jackson was a non-local. The two locals were dropped off and the vehicle left with Jackson. Jackson was the head of the facility. His brother David said his brother was home in Kinangop for the December holiday and he left on January 10 to go ‘solve a problem’ at the facility. “He was on holiday from November and towards December he kept on making calls and he told me there was a problem at the facility. He did not say what the problem was,” David says. “We want the government to respond to us. They shouldn't remain silent.” On Sunday, the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers urged the Mandera government to outline the steps taken to rescue the clinician as well as ensure such incidences are prevented in the future. The union also wants the government through the Ministry of Interior to ensure essential service providers working in such areas are provided with 24-hour security. “We want the Ministry of Interior and Coordination to also publicly tell us what they are doing to secure essential service providers in these areas. This is their duty and abduction is a lapse in the security provision in that area,” Kenya Union of Clinical Officers chairman Peterson Wachira said. "It is disappointing to continue witnessing serious security incidences despite our calls for enhanced security to essential service providers working in these polarised areas," KUCO secretary general George Gibore said. The union has warned that failure by the relevant authorities to address the matter might lead to a mass exodus of healthcare providers from such areas. Edited by A.N