East African Portland Cement Company (EAPPC) is banking on ongoing restructuring of its business to return to profitability. It has narrowed its losses for the six months to December to Sh907.1 million from Sh1.04 billion recorded in a similar period the previous year. This came even as revenue for the period dropped to Sh967.6 million compared to Sh1.4 billion a year earlier. The State-owned cement manufacturer’s management said it is currently as the tail end of terminating a Sh6.8 billion bank loan, and has successfully negotiated for cessation of interest in light of the progress made in setting the debt. It had earlier defaulted on a loan from one of its key lenders, forcing it to dispose of some of its idle lands to retire the debt. Further, the company has made significant progress in the balance sheet restructuring program with proceeds from sale of land expected to bridge working capital deficit. In the six months under review, it had about Sh33.9 million in loan restructured, compared to Sh35.8 million the previous year. “From the foregoing business performance, the yields from the business reorganisation initiatives continue to materialise,” the firm notes in its financials. “These measures are expected to reposition the business to deliver its customer value proposition and effectively mine from its strong brand equity. It is projected that the business will be profitable by end of the current financial year,” management notes. During the six months, the company registered Sh422 million decline in revenue occasioned by working capital deficit, which inhibited the business from undertaking plant refurbishment and resourcing of the value chain. The gross loss position for the period increased by Sh40 million while loss from operations improved by three per cent, buoyed by deliberate cost containment measures by management and the board. The loss before tax improved by Sh190 million. “This improvement was as a result of 59 per cent reduction in finance cost,” it said. Last year, the company sent its staff home and hired new ones on contract basis. It reduced its permanent staff by 78 per cent in the year ended June 2021 as it battled a cash crunch.