A Kirinyaga woman accused of fatally stabbing her husband will not be released on bond for her own safety and because she might tamper with witnesses, a court has ruled. Jedidiah Wanja's seven-year-old son is expected to testify against his mother. It is not known whether he witnessed the alleged stabbing. She will remain in Majimbo GK Prison in Embu throughout her trial, the court ruled on Tuesday. Wanja, who was veiled in court, is charged with murdering Dennis Magu Njeru on  December 15 last year during a dispute. She has denied the charges. Her husband had been the assistant chief for Kiamugumo sublocation in Gichugu. He was the son of Kirinyaga nominated MCA Rose Njeru. In his ruling, Kerugoya High Court Judge Richard Mwongo expressed concerns over the accused 's safety if she were to be released. In her bond submission, she promised to relocate to Nairobi and not to interfere with witnesses. The probation officer's report said the accused would be in danger  if she returned home as the community's wrath is yet to subside. According to the report, the accused was rescued by the area chief from a lynch mob. However, the court noted that regardless of her willingness to relocate, there were no court records of supportive affidavits assuring her security by those willing to accommodate her. "Considering the accused stayed in Nairobi seven years ago before relocating to her present Kiamugumo home, there is no guarantee of her protection by the individual or family willing to accommodate her. "Therefore, at this stage it would be unsafe to allow her release on bond or bail," Mwongo said. In addition, the judge dismissed her application, saying it failed to state how she would relate to her seven-year-old son, and other witnesses if she were released. Through lawyer Kemunto Magara, she sought bond of Sh1 million and pledged to abide by all court directives. She told court that she was not a flight risk and was still considered innocent until proven guilty, thus, there was no compelling reason why she should  be denied bail. The family of her dead husband, through advocate Ndegwa Njiru, rejected her application, saying much as her family had made arrangements to get her out of the hostile  area, the bond application had not captured the same. The court agreed to consider another bond application when the accused's son, known as witness PW1, has testified. In that regard, Mwongo directed the prosecution to make swift arrangements to have the boy produced in court to give his testimony in order to relieve both the witness and the accused of emotional burden . The accused has also sought a plea bargain, substituting the murder charge with a manslaughter charge. The court is yet ruling on that application. (Edited by V. Graham)