Daniel Nduva has been handed a wildcard to the Magical Kenya Open Golf slated for next month at the Muthaiga Golf and Country Club. Just this week, the Nyali Golf and Country Club golfer finished second in the eighth and final leg of the Safari Golf Tour, behind eventual winner Robinson Chinhoi of Zimbabwe. Other wildcards in the biggest gold tournament event of the year are South Africans Toto Thimba and Jayden Sharpier as well as Ugandan Ronald Rugamayo. Tournament director Patrick Obath said he is delighted that there will be an increased number of Kenyans in the tournament. “Nduva gets the nod and we are delighted he will be joining a formidable field from Kenya,” Obath said. Obath also expects a competitive tournament, especially with prize money of over Sh200 million. "The prize money for the event has gone up so we expect the best golfers in the world to come and compete. The course is in good condition and preparations for the event are almost complete,” he said. Among the elite golfers expected are defending champion Justin Harding of South Africa, who will be keen on maintaining a stranglehold on the title he won last year. Obath was speaking on Friday at Muthaiga Golf and Country Club during a Sh56 million-sponsorship launch by Absa Bank Kenya. Absa Bank Kenya Managing Director Jeremy Awori said the tournament reinforces the country’s position as a global sporting and tourism destination. "We are proud to, yet again, be part of this prestigious tournament that will not only help spotlight the best players in the game but also give us an opportunity to partner with local pros and help them bring their possibilities to life," Awori said. "We have worked with the Kenya Open Golf Limited to increasingly grow the profile and stature of the Kenya Open tournament, transforming it into a great asset, not just for the golfing fraternity but also for the country." It is the 11th year the bank is sponsoring the international tournament, which is part of the European Tour — now known as the DP World Tour. Muthaiga has so far hosted 40 seasons including the tournament’s first edition in 1967. It brings together over 150 golfers from Kenya and across the world, including eight Kenyan professionals, six Kenyan amateurs and two regional players.