Police officers on Saturday nabbed 13 overloaded trucks ferrying sand from Machakos to Thika at Ndalani. Yatta police boss John Gichohi said the truck drivers fled abandoning their vehicles upon being flagged by the police. He said besides overloading, the trucks had no number plates, insurance stickers and National Transport and Safety Authority stickers. The Kenya National Highway Authority in conjunction with the National Police Service began an operation to stem overloading trucks plying major roads in the country. The operation will be targeting trucks that have been violating traffic rules and regulations while on transit. “We have been monitoring the vehicles at our virtual weighbridge at Yatta and we have successfully launched an operation to net them. They have been plying our roads without proper documentation and being heavily overloaded,” Gichohi said. He said the trucks, which are currently being held at Yatta police station, are supposed to carry 26 tons but they had loads weighing up to 53 tons. Gichohi said they have launched investigations to establish owners of the vehicles as they prepare to prosecute them. “Once we establish the owners they will give us the identities of the drivers. They will be charged with operating on vehicles without insurance, NTSA stickers and overloading which is contrary to the traffic rules and regulations. They will be fined Sh400,000 each,” he said. Felix Langat an officer from Kenha said the authority is determined to end overloading which has been damaging roads. “This means even if we keep maintaining our roads, the roads will still get damaged and the maintenance cost will be high. We will restore sanity on our roads and ensure the truckers are compliant with the set traffic rules and regulations,” Langat said. He said besides destroying roads the grossly overloaded trucks endanger the lives of other road users. “Overloading makes it hard for drivers to negotiate the vehicles properly, especially at sharp corners which pose a great danger to other motorists. Some of these trucks do not have proper brakes, the wear and tear of the trucks become very high,” Langat said. He said the authority has mobilised officers across the country and is monitoring all roads warning truckers of dire legal consequences for violating the set traffic guidelines. Edited by Kiilu Damaris