Defending Champion Esther Henseleit believes she still has what it takes to dethrone her course adversaries at this week's Magical Kenya Ladies Open (MKLO). In a pre-tournament interview at the PGA Vipingo course, Henseleit told journalists that she is not putting herself under pressure in a spirited bid to deliver back-to-back titles in Kenya. The young German nevertheless conceded that it will be a huge task against a field of such strength in the Ladies European Tour (season opener. Henseleit will tee off from the first tee at 12:52 today together with Lee-Anne Pace of South Africa and Finland’s Sanna Nuutinen. “It’s nice coming back to Kenya after two years. I do have many memories about Kenya including winning here on my debut. I have had a chance of practicing on the course and found the greens much firmer than they were two years ago. Overall, the greens are good and I think about hitting them much more,” Henseleit explained. “I believe I'll have plenty more chances over the next four days, but then again I'm not going to put that much pressure on myself this week to get it done. I will take each situation as it comes." Meanwhile, Kenya’s 14-year-old junior player Chanelle Wanjiru has withdrawn from the event citing family commitments. This leaves Kenya with three amateurs and one professional. The amateurs in the team are Faith Chemutai (Nandi Bears), Naomi Wafula (Kitale), and Mercy Nyanchama (Vet Lab). Bhavi Shah is the sole professional representing Kenya in the event, whose first edition took place in 2019 as the season finale for the LET that year. Naomi said: “I’m excited to be back here after playing in the first event in 2019. We have been in Vipingo for a week to acclimatise and familiarise ourselves with course conditions. It's a bit windy and humid, but we are now used to the conditions. The greens have also improved.” Nyanchama on her part said: “It's my second LET event and  I am hoping to make the cut. Last time, I was knocked off in the opening round as I did not have proper clubs to play with. I now have good championship clubs and I am hoping for the best.” Wafula will tee off from the first tee at 13:03 in the company of Olivia Cowan (GER) and Nuria Iturrioz (ESP).  Also teeing it up from the first tee will be Chemutai alongside Amandeep Drall from India. The event is sponsored by Safaricom, KCB Bank and Magical Kenya.