Businessman Stanley Livondo now says there is a looming arrest of people who he claims were involved in the planning of President Uhuru Kenyatta's assassination. Speaking at DCI Headquarters off Kiambu road on Monday, Livondo said he has provided all required information about all those involved in the alleged scheme. "I have provided every information regarding their cars, how they move, how they convey their messages to him (their master) and how they implement their mission. "The plan to assassinate the Head of the state is going to be neutralized any time from now. From today, expect people to be arrested one by one," he said. Livondo also said he has given every detail of his witnesses who he believes will shade more light on his allegations and demanded that they be protected. "I have given the names of witnesses who have already expressed willingness to talk on the matter. We are now waiting for the DCI to conclude their investigations so that the life of our president can be safe," he stated. The businessman further claimed those involved in the alleged assassination form a wider syndicate that comprises even churches. "I have revealed all those involved in the matter. You will get even churches are involved. It is a big thing. Once the investigations complete you will know it is indeed a big matter," he stated. The development follows remarks he made on Saturday during Moses Kuria's homecoming in Thika where he claimed some people tried to attack a presidential jet in the past. Livondo was accompanied by his lawyer Victor Kariuki when he appeared before the detectives. They said they had provided evidence and will wait for the police to do their work. He added the plans started in 2014. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria had asked DCI boss George Kinoti to investigate claims made by Livondo on Saturday in Thika. “You have a friend, who attempted to crash your plane twice, will you forgive him?  The first attempt was when President Uhuru Kenyatta was leaving Kisumu and the second attempt was when he was going to the US through Dubai and he had to make a detour,” Livondo said. Many believe Livondo referred to the 2015 incident when the presidential plane heading to the US via Dubai flew back to Kenya. He said that the incident was because of a misunderstanding between two countries. Kenya then sent a protest note to Ethiopia over the aborted trip. The president's jet turned back after Ethiopian authorities advised the pilot to change the flight course in a bid to avoid the Yemen airspace.