As Kenyans continue to witness the mass resignation of Cabinet Secretaries and other state officials eyeing elective seats, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has said he will not abandon the Jubilee government. The IEBC had set February 9 as the deadline for the resignation of all civil servants who wish to go for elective seats. On Tuesday, at least three CSs- John Munyes (Petroleum), Charles Keter (Devolution) and Adan Mohamed (EAC)- quit the government. Munyes is seeking to succeed Josphat Nanok in Turkana, Mohamed (Mandera) and Keter is hoping to become the Kericho County boss. It is reported that President Uhuru Kenyatta could have prevailed upon some of his close and trusted allies to forgo their political ambitions and stick with him to the very end. On Tuesday evening, Kagwe confirmed that he has been thinking about the issue of running for an elective seat, but decided to shelve it. “No, I’m not resigning. I have given a lot of thought to this issue,” said Kagwe. Kagwe said it will be unfortunate for him to abandon Kenyans at this critical time of Covid-19 when he is serving as Health Cabinet Secretary. “I was called to this government just over two years ago by President Uhuru Kenyatta to serve in this specific capacity, and for whatever reason, I happened to be there when Covid-19 hit us and it is still there,” said Kagwe. “We are still grappling with this pandemic, and I do not feel it will be responsible on my part to abandon the course at this critical moment to go and run for an elective position.” The Health CS said he will stay behind even though his colleagues are leaving. “As long as the situation is the way it is, as long as it is the President’s pleasure that I serve in this capacity, I don’t feel inclined to resign and do anything else. If I can stay behind and save the lives of five other Kenyans, it would be a well-thought decision,” he said. Kagwe said he does not have an issue with other Cabinet Secretaries and civil servants who are leaving for elective positions. “It is the right of every Kenya to go and participate in the electoral process and vie for any seat,” he said. President Uhuru might be forced to reorganise his cabinet as more top government officials resigned on Tuesday and Wednesday. Several PSs Joseph Irungu (Water) and his Wildlife counterpart Fred Sigor have also left the government for elective posts. Seven chief administrative secretaries including; Devolution CAS Gideon Mung'aro, Transport CAS Wavinya Nderitu, Infrastructure CAS Chris Obure and his Labour counterpart Patrick Ole Ntutu have also quit. Mung’aro wants to become Kilifi governor, Ole Ntutu is eyeing the Narok governor's seat and Ndeti is running for Machakos governor. Obure is seeking the ODM ticket to succeed Kisii Governor James Ongwae, who is completing his two terms.