Manchester United coach Ralf Rangnick was not happy with key decisions that went against his side in their 1-1 draw at Burnley, feeling the officials cost his team three points at Turf Moor on Tuesday. United had two goals ruled out in the first half rain in Lancashire, one for offside against Harry Maguire, adjudged to have impeded Burnley's Jay Rodriguez before Raphael Varane headed home, and an own goal for a foul by Marcus Rashford. The German was unhappy with the officials in United's FA Cup defeat by Middlesbrough on Friday, with his mood not changing after seeing his side unable to make their domination count against Burnley in the Premier League. "I think we played a fantastic first half, couldn't have played any better," Rangnick told BT Sport. "We scored three goals, the second (for a foul by Rashford) that was disallowed I cannot understand. "It was a very, very soft decision by the linesman. He flagged the foul five or six seconds after it took place. "It really surprised me he flagged when the ball was in the net. Had he really seen the foul? The first I can understand why it was disallowed, even though it was a hard one, but the second I cannot understand. "If you look into the whole game we dominated for most of it. Winning one point is not enough and another frustration again." Bottom-side Burnley will have considered themselves fortunate to still have been in the game having faced 12 shots on their own goal in the first half, without mustering a single attempt of their own. Manager Sean Dyche, however, issued some home truths at halftime, and it paid dividends. "United were the better side in the first half by a long way - we never got near what I was hoping for," he said. "We wanted a reaction and the players gave it. The second half was much more like we want to be like against a very good side. It is a very positive point. "I asked more of some individuals in the second half and we got that. We can't wait for games to come our way, we have to make them come our way. "I feel the decisions were right, even the Maguire offside one. They get given in other areas of the pitch."