Over 150 golfers are expected for the 9th leg of the Johnnie Walker Golf Series at the par 72 Karen Country Club course on Saturday. Action at the 18-hole golf club will tee off at 06.30 am, with the golfers seeking to make the cut for the series’ semi-finals dubbed the Eagles’ Round at Muthaiga in May. This will be followed by the Grand Finale where a fully paid trip to the iconic Gleneagles Golf Course in Scotland will be up for grabs. This follows the Kericho event held last weekend, where home player Raymond Keter led his team of Kibet Too, Joel Chebon, and Ignatius Ngetich to the overall title, having carded a combined 115 points. A team comprising Kericho Club captain David Biegon, Edward Masiga, Wesley Siele, and Chris Birgen returned a score of 114 points to place second. Claiming the third and final qualifying position was occupied by Erick Mutai, Julius Rono, Patrick Cheruiyot, and Patrick Langat who hit 113 points. The three teams joined the list of teams that have already qualified to play in the next round. Elsewhere, former Kakamega Golf captain Jack Songwa will lead golfers to this weekend’s Vivo Energy Golf tournament on par 72 Kakamega Club. Songwa said he will be in action to reclaim his position in the game after picking an injury. “I am fully prepared for the tournament now that I have recovered from injuries. I want to try my best and be one of the top golfers on Saturday at my home club and serve as a captain at the same time,” said Songwa. Playing handicap 17, Songwa will tee off at 10 am alongside other golfers from the Vivo Energy company. “I have trained well and I am looking forward to this event, the first this year. I am ready for the challenge considering some of the golfers from the neighbouring countries will be here," he said. The Kakamega-based lawyer said the course has been dry due to the dry weather but that will not stop golfers from enjoying it. Club captain Pepe Sembi is expected to lead other home club golfers for the big tournament. Others expected are captain Hieronim Ikhokoro and  Ayub Shitseswa.  Invited clubs include Kitale, Eldoret, Nyanza, Kisii Kericho and Ruiru.