Africa Under 20 10,000m walk race champion Dominic Ndigiti said his win at the second Athletics Kenya weekend meeting in Kisumu is a move in the right direction as he prepares for the  2022 World Race Walking Team Challenge in April in Oman, Jordan. The 2017 World Under 18 10,000m bronze medalist, who is also targeting the World Championships in Oregon and Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, won the 10,000m race in 46:13.6. Ndigiti, who dominated the junior ranks before his graduation into seniors last year, is hoping to replicate that form in Oman. “The win in Kisumu has propelled my preparations for the World Challenge a notch higher. It was part of my speed training. I wanted to try 10,000m on track after training for a long time on the roads. I have been away from the track for almost a year and I am happy with the progress so far,” said Ndigiti. However, he lamented that the Kisumu track was in bad condition as they were using lane three, which was 'punishment' for athletes who wanted to gauge their time ahead of upcoming championships. “I won, yes! But the track was not in good condition for athletes. We were using lane three, which was bigger than required and measured 440m. But this is the beginning of good things to come and which need good preparations. If I wasn’t prepared, I might have lost,” he added. He urged Athletics Kenya to do their inspection of some tracks in advance before allowing athletes to compete. “I managed such a great time because I have been training on the roads. I am also happy that I will be joining great walkers like Samuel Gathimba and Simon Wachira on the journey to Oman. These are people who inspired me to join race walking,” said Ndigiti. Kenya has named at least six athletes for the World Race Walk Team Challenge Championships. These include the World Under 20 10,000m champion Heristone Wanyonyi (who will compete in junior ranks), Ndigiti, Gathimba and Wachira, all of whom will compete in the senior ranks. Former national champion Erick Shikuku will be in the masters’ category while  Emily Ngii is the only lady, enlisted in the 20km distance. As Ndigiti was shining in the men's race in Kisumu, Sylvia Kemboi won the women’s title. In other results, Sandrafelis Chebet bagged a double at the championships, winning both the 5,000m and 10,000m races.