The county government of Lamu has officially opened the Nagele livestock market yard in Witu, Lamu West. The market is in line with the planned livestock export project at the Lamu port-LAPSSET in an initiative that is meant to increase incomes for both pastoral and agro-pastoral livelihoods in the county. The spacious modern auction market has a capacity to hold over 1,000 herds of cattle, sheep and goats and is expected to serve livestock keepers from the county and beyond. The market will  be open to business every Wednesday where livestock buyers and sellers will be able to trade in a single market. Speaking during the official opening of the market on Thursday, Lamu county Livestock chief officer Gichohi Mathenge expressed satisfaction in the way the community had responded by bringing hundreds of their livestock to the market on the first day. “This yard will ensure farmers no longer have to sell their livestock at a loss. Moreover, with the existence of this market, livestock traders will not have to cover long distances as far as Garsen and Garissa to sell their livestock, since buyers and sellers will be converging at one point every Wednesday of the week starting today,” Gichohi said. He said measures had been put in place to ensure the operationalisation of the market has the optimum economic impact for livestock keepers. Residents are optimistic that the operation of the auction market will boost the economic status of communities in the area, who are largely pastoralists and rely mainly on livestock to earn a living. The market which will open up Lamu as the next livestock hub, follows the commissioning of the Lamu Port's planned Export Livestock Marshaling Yard and the Bargoni Pre-export Quarantine area, that will enable livestock supply to Middle Eastern and Asian countries. It is also expected to boost the county's revenue stream by at least Sh20 million per year through livestock trading revenue collection. The government has since commenced the construction of a livestock export marshalling yard at the new Lamu port in line with the project. The yard is part of a Sh9 billion Livestock Pre-export quarantine project at Bargoni area in Lamu West, which is aimed at boosting exports of live animals and livestock products to other countries via the Lamu Port, which was operationalised by president Uhuru Kenyatta on May 22 last year. The project is aimed at harnessing the potential of Arid and Semi-arid areas for which livestock production is the main source of living. Apart from the coastal counties like Lamu, Kilifi and Tana River, counties such as Garissa, Wajir and Mandera will also inform a major source of livestock that will be exported through the port.   -Edited by SKanyara