Three more people were shot dead in the volatile Kerio Valley region as defiant bandits ignored ultimatums to surrender illegal arms ahead of disarmament. A herder was shot dead in Turkana, while another was killed in Baringo. The body of a third person was found floating in Kerio River on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot. The government has deployed hundreds of security officers in Muchongoi, Baringo county, one of the areas affected by the attacks. Tens of families have been displaced. “We have restored calm in most areas where we will also maintain security so that residents can go back to their homes and resume normal life,” Baringo county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said. His Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart John Korir said additional security personnel had restored security in most areas of Kerio Valley. The two administrators assured residents that security will be heightened around schools as students prepare for national exams. “We will give all the necessary support to ensure schools are safe for the children,” Korir said. The bandits have killed more than 85 people in seven months in the region. The government has deployed a team of security officers to profile individuals who own guns illegally. The move follows an order issued by Rift Valley regional coordinator Maalim Mohammed who gave residents a two-week period to voluntarily surrender illegal guns. Mohammed said a major disarmament exercise would be carried out to mop up illegal guns used in banditry. One week of the ultimatum period has lapsed and police are yet to reveal if any illegal guns have been returned. The counties of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Baringo, Turkana and Samburu are estimated to have more than 30,000 illicit arms in the hands of civilians. A week ago, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i met with security teams and leaders from the region at a forum in Nakuru where he issued orders for the disarmament exercise in the region. Mohammed said they had issued an amnesty to all those who own guns illegally to surrender them before mid-month or risk forceful action to rid the region of the guns that have been used to perpetrate banditry. Former IG Joseph Boinnet has called for the use of alternative ways to support government efforts to end banditry. He said communities are aware of the challenges they face and could provide alternative solutions so that there is lasting peace in affected counties including Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo. “Apart from what the government is doing, we need to also engage communities so that we use the local methods which they understand better in dealing with such insecurity issues,” Boinnet said. Korir said the problem cannot be solved by government officers or the police without support from the political leaders, communities and peace actors. He said many people have lost their lives in the region and the time has come for leaders and communities to engage in dialogue on how to end the insecurity problem. Edited by A.N