In 2003, the government took over the Kenyatta International Convention Center after hosting the former ruling party, Kenya Africa National Union since 1989. During the takeover, Raphael Tuju was then Tourism and Information Minister. The former Minister had then accused the ‘baba na mama’ party of moving into KICC on political grounds and that KANU had failed to remit any payments. KANU has all along been claiming ownership of the landmark building. KICC has, however, been taken over by the state and has since been made a parastatal. The Convention is currently a Meetings, Incentives, and Conference Centre (MICE) destination, tasked with positioning Kenya as a favourable destination for Meetings, Incentive Travel, Events, and Exhibitions. On Friday, Tuju was again at the building, this time around, to strengthen the Jubilee Party. The strengthening of the party comes days after it got divorced from Deputy President William Ruto. Initially, Uhuru and Ruto ascended to power using The National Alliance (TNA) and United Republican Party (URP) respectively. However, twelve political parties including TNA and URP wound up forming Jubilee Party on September 8, 2016. Other parties that wound up included Grand National Union (GNU), The Independent Party (TIP), and Ford People. Other parties were the United Democratic Forum (UDF), New Ford Kenya (NFK), Alliance Party of Kenya (APK), Republican Congress (RC), and Unity Party of Kenya (UPK) also dissolved. Party of National Unity (PNU) dissolved. Following the merger, members of the 12 political parties were deemed to be members of the Jubilee Party. The merger of political parties as provided for in the Political Parties (Amendment) Act, 2016. The significance of KICC in some of the historic political milestones, however, stands out. It is at KICC that the launch of The National Alliance (TNA) was done by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2012. On Friday, KICC hosted Jubilee party delegates for a two-day National Delegates Conference. Tuju and Jubilee Party Vice Chairman David Murathe were at hand to receive eight parties that signed cooperation agreements ahead of the launch of Azimio la Umoja launch expected to be graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday. Among the parties that have signed the pre-election pact with Jubilee includes Kenya Union Party (KUP) associated with West Pokot Governor John Lonyang’apuo, Pamoja African Alliance associated with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, and  Party of National Unity led by Peter Munya. Others are the United Progressive Alliance associated with Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo and the United Party of Independent alliance (UPIA) associated with Treasury CS Ukur Yatani. Others expected to join the Azimio include One Kenya Alliance headed by Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi (KANU), and Cyrus Jirongo (United Democratic Party) with sources indicating that OKA will join as a coalition. “We are happy to receive the parties that have so far signed cooperation of framework,” Tuju said. The Secretary-General said that the parties are joining together to reinforce the unity as the country heads to the general election. Tuju said that the unity of the country is paramount and Kenyans should support the Azimio la Umoja. “What we are doing today is sign a cooperation agreement with party leaders and they have appointed Jubilee party to negotiate for them in Azimio la Umoja,” he said. Tuju added that the details of the agreement will be reviewed before the general election adding that the signing of the agreements was in itself historic. Other parties that have shown interest in supporting Odinga’s candidature include the Democratic Action Party of Kenya (DAP-K) associated with Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa and the United Democratic Party associated with former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo. But even as parties signed cooperation frameworks at KICC, the statue of the founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, stood tall, giving a lot of significance to the activities taking place here. On Saturday, it is expected that President Kenyatta will Saturday attend the last NDC as Jubilee Party leader at KICC. Divorce rite The ruling Jubilee party has already unveiled a major rebrand exercise, affirming final divorce rites with DP Ruto. Ruto has irretrievably fallen out with his boss and is engaged in a bare-knuckled political fight over succession politics. Already, the National Management Committee-the party's ruthless organ with unfettered powers- has approved radical changes to Jubilee's outlook. At the same time, Jubilee is changing its symbol to a dove, the symbol that was used by Uhuru's former TNA outfit. The dove will assume red colours in a circled white background. The dove will replace the palm handshake that depicted the marriage between Uhuru and Ruto. Severing the ties with Ruto further, Jubilee has also adopted a new slogan Mbele Pamoja, dumping the Tuko Pamoja one.