After a season dogged by injuries, Nairobi City Stars striker Eric Ombija is back and keen to help the team win the Kenya Premier League title. “I am now in good shape and looking forward to more games,” declared the former Coast Stima player. His sentiments have been fully corroborated by team physio Brian Otieno Odongo who confirmed Ombija is fully fit. Ombija called on his Nairobi City Stars teammates to sustain the current performance if they are to achieve their set goals this season. Despite the injuries, Ombija has had a good contribution to the team,  scoring twice with as many assists from nine games played. “So far, so good! We have had a good run. Now we need to be more consistent for the team to achieve our objective for the season,” he said. Ombija featured in the first four games of the season but was forced to miss the next seven due to an injury. He was back for another four games against Talanta, Tusker, and two games against Kakamega Homeboyz but was out again against Kariobangi Sharks and Nzoia United due to an ankle sprain in training. Ombija will be available for selection when Nairobi City Stars host Mathare United at the Thika Stadium on Saturday. The game was initially scheduled to be played at Ruaraka. City Stars team coordinator Samson Otieno said: “The Ruaraka management informed us of a function at their grounds over the week which will render their grounds unusable on Saturday. With other Nairobi venues unavailable too, the option was to head down to Thika Stadium which we have since confirmed for the Saturday game against Mathare United.” Meanwhile, stopper Salim Shitu Abdalla says the team’s current form is a motivator to carry on to the end of the season. After 18 games in the 2021/22 FKF Premier League season, Simba Wa Nairobi is placed second on the log with 32 points, five off leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. Abdalla, now in his third season with City Stars, takes note of a massive improvement from the same point last season where the team had 20 points after 18 games and was placed tenth. “What I can say is that so far it’s been a wonderful achievement compared to what we managed at the same point last season. All of these are results of hard work, dedication, and focus and this motivates us to work even harder until the end of the season,” added the defender.