Deep cracks fuelled by personality egos and claims of isolation have exposed bitter infighting in ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja. The Star has established that the void left by Raila’s absence from the campaign trail has worsened the situation, threatening to slow down Azimio’s take off. The former Prime Minister left the country last week for  a 10-day trip to Ethiopia and India. At the heart of the issue is a silent feeling among bigwigs in Azimio who continue to feel increasingly left out of the presidential campaigns despite their influence. Although the Raila Presidential Campaign Secretariat (RPCS) on Sunday rubbished the reports, cut-throat fights to control rallies is palpable among Raila’s lieutenants. RPCS chief executive Elizabeth Meyo told the Star that the secretariat is fully in charge of the national campaign schedules. “What is going on is what is planned and according to schedule given by the secretariat. Everything being done is coordinated from the secretariat and has blessings of all board members,” Meyo said. The latest series of rallies by a section of high-ranking politicians led by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed have exposed the growing tensions. The team also includes Narok Senator Ledama Kina and President Uhuru Kenyatta’s confidants: Sabina Chege(Murang’a) and Kanini Kega(Kieni). Dubbed 'Azimio Mashinani', the team has traversed parts of Nyanza, Western Kenya and were in Uhuru’s Laikipia turf on Sunday. However, Kakamega Governor, who last Friday rubbished reports of flirting with Deputy President William Ruto's camp, has been conspicuously missing in action. Oparanya, a high-ranking Raila confidant, and who like Joho is another ODM deputy leader, did not attend the Azimio Mashinani campaigns in Busia and Vihiga counties on Saturday. But on Sunday Oparanya denied reports that he had been isolated, saying he was aware of Joho's visit and "we were meant to campaign together." "Because Raila was out of the country, I was attending to some other matters. I have no issue with Joho. In fact, he is free to campaign in Western and I am free to campaign at the Coast," Oparanya told the Star. However, there are reports that there is disharmony between the national campaign teams and the local ones as leaders engage in ego fights. Fuelling the tension are situations where some governors have political differences with their MPs or have preferred succession line-ups. Oparanya, who said he is the leader of the presidential campaigns in Western region, said he can only be forced to step in where a governor has local issues. "If you convince me that you(governors) are strong enough to lead campaigns in your county I don't need to come there, but if you have issues with campaign teams under you then I shall come to give support," he said. However, it emerged that Oparanya is planning his own campaigns for Raila across Western Kenya, days after Joho led much publicised campaigns at the weekend. The governor, whose team will include ODM MPs from Western Kenya, will tour “each and every constituency” in the region. “We have agreed on programme of campaigns to be led by Oparanya to go to all constituencies in Western starting next week,” Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said. The MP, a close ally of Oparanya, insisted that all the campaigns by various teams have been approved by the secretariat as part of the strategy to reach out to as many regions as possible. A high-ranking ODM member claimed there was a feeling  that some Western Kenya leaders are being isolated by the secretariat. “There is a feeling of exclusion and isolation. Some members feel they are been left out in the campaigns and that does not augur well with the presidential campaigns at large,” he told the Star in confidence. At the heart of the differences is an alleged campaign programme that isolates Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and Busia from Oparanya’s grip. According to the alleged plan, Oparanya will concentrate on Kakamega and Vihiga while Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa’s led DAP-K will take over Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties. Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong who is also an ODM member and outgoing governor will camp in Busia. “Is there a plan to reduce Oparanya to a Kakamega kingpin? Why the zoning?” an ODM member from Western Kenya said. However, Meyo dismissed the zoning claims. “It is not a must that when you are in Coast you cannot go to campaign in Western, no. We have a very good mix on how the campaigns are done,” she said. The presidential campaign board chaired by Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi has already formed and split teams to campaign for Raila. The first Azimio group is led by Joho, Junet Mohamed, Kega and Sabina Chege. Muriithi will lead another team that will include Siaya Senator James Orengo, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, Kisii Governor James Ongwae and a host of MPs and MCAs Government officials led by cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang'i (Interior), Peter Munya (Agriculture), Ukur Yatani (National Treasury) and Mutahi Kagwe (Health) will also lead another team. President Uhuru Kenyatta has made it clear that he is backing Raila to succeed him in the August 9 general election.  (edited by Amol Awuor)