Traditional Kenyan Premier League giants, AFC Leopards, have swung into action to bolster their squad in a well-calculated move aimed at turning around their dwindling fortunes. The last time Leopards basked in glory was in 1998 when they garnished their cabinet with the coveted top-flight silverware after emerging at the summit of the log. Their fortunes have experienced a rapid decline ever since, and things are not looking up this season either as they continue to post mixed results that leave them precariously rooted in the bottom half of the table. Prior to that, they had clinched 12 titles (1966, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1980, 1981, 1982, 1986, 1988, 1989, 1992, 1998). However, the coach Patrick Aussems-tutored felines might be plotting a grand comeback if their move to plunge resources into the transfer market is anything to go by. Speaking on Monday after a training session, assistant coach Tom Juma confirmed they had already submitted names of their targets to the Football Kenya Federation (FKF)  Caretaker Committee for approval. Leopards return to action on Saturday against Bidco United at Thika Stadium following a week-long international break, and Juma hopes they will be in a position to unveil their new acquisitions during the match. “We have moved to the transfer market to plug in the existing loopholes. We spread our wings across the tiers and some of our new signings might not necessarily come from the top tier,” said Juma. “We are not in a position to reveal the names at the moment given the deals have not been finalised. However, what I can say is that we are keen to raise a competitive squad and that's why we are strengthening all the departments,” said Juma. Juma reckons that the current crop of players are not badly off despite having continuously found themselves weighed down by constant criticism owing to a torrid run. “We managed to collect all the six points from our back-to-back matches against Mathare United. That clearly testifies to our rising curve in the competition. “Still, it's only important for us to increase our depth as the fixtures enter the crucial stages,” said Juma. Juma says he is happy their key striker, Fasanami Ojo Olaniyi, has finally rediscovered his magic touch in front of the goal. “I'm glad his patience is finally paying off. He managed to grab two goals from each of our last two encounters and, hopefully, he'll be able to find the back of the net more often,” said Juma. The gaffer ruled out injury concerns in the squad adding that their forward Maxwell Onyango had recuperated fully from the knock he sustained in one of the matches.