Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti on Monday evening refused to bow to pressure from youths who wanted him to disclose his preferred successor. The youths said the governor had promised to show them direction by giving them the name of the person he would like to take over from him in August. They said the election day is fast approaching. Roch Osii, who was among the youths, said Awiti had promised them to hand over power to a person who would complete the projects he has initiated. Some of the incomplete projects are Homa Bay Stadium, Kegoto maize mill and Arujo animal feeds. Osii said they want the governor to go for a person who is loyal to ODM and will promote peace and unity among Homa Bay residents. “As supporters, we want the governor's legacy to remain vivid after he leaves office. We don’t want those who will antagonize Homa Bay people,” Osii said. But Awiti told the youths to focus on registering as voters. He said those who want to succeed him are all residents of Homa Bay and they will get elected by voters. The governor said time is not ripe to name a successor. “Don’t push me to tell you what you want. Let’s focus on registering as voters so ODM leader Raila Odinga can win with a landslide,” Awiti said. “I don’t want you to continue shouting and murmuring without making a step forward by registering as a voter. Your future lies on the voter’s card,” he added. The youth and the governor spoke at Posta Grounds when he visited various estates to assess the progress of the ongoing voter registration in Homa Bay town. During the tour, Awiti visited, Shauri Yako, Makongeni, Sofia and Rodi Kopany market. Earlier, Awiti had said he has the key to access the governor's office and will hand it over to his preferred person. The governor had said he will have an influence on whoever will be given the ODM party ticket among the 10 aspirants who have declared interest in the seat. Those who have expressed interest in the governor's seat include Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe and Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko. Others are former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Suba South MP John Mbadi, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, businessmen Louis Ogingo and Jared Kiasa. “All these governor aspirants should go slow and help me develop Homa Bay. Let them not belittle me because I hold the key and will have influence in the game,” Awiti said. Edited by A.N