Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa has said Treasury CS Ukur Yatani and his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang'i did not resign because they hold sensitive dockets. Eugene said the dockets should run throughout the election period. The CS said Trans Nzoia residents wanted him to vie for the governor position but he shelved his bid to support former Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya. He said the President requested him to complete his tenure. Natembeya will vie on the DAP-K party, Eugene is the patron. He said the former regional commissioner will take over from the current Ford Kenya leadership which has failed residents. “Having served as Saboti MP, the residents know my track record but I assure them of good leadership from Natembeya,” Eugene said. He accused the current leadership of corruption. “Despite receiving billions from the national government, for the health docket, residents are still seeking services from Eldoret Referral Hospital. If Natembeya takes over, he will revamp the health sector in Kitale,” the CS said. “I ask Natembeya, not to entertain corruption in his administration from August 10. We want our people to enjoy devolution.” Eugene spoke Thursday morning on Sulwe FM. On Bungoma Politics, CS Eugene asked Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka to join Azimio la Umoja in seeking the gubernatorial position and to stop being enticed by the Kenya Kwanza. “Lusaka was the first pioneer governor who was sabotaged by Senator Wetang’ula in the 2017 elections accusing him of corruption and he should not go back to Wetang’ula,” he said. The Senate speaker, Wednesday denied ditching Jubilee for Ford Kenya. He said he had met the party leaders to discuss Bungoma leadership and August polls. Eugene said DP Ruto's cows' remarks on the Democratic Republic of Congo had caused protest in DRC and urged politicians to be careful with their sentiments. “He was not fair when making his sentiments, Kenya and DRC do much business, let's respect them, recently we launched Equity bank with President Kenyatta in DRC,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris