Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA has refuted claims it has preferred candidates in the upcoming nominations. The party’s National Elections Board on Wednesday announced the nomination dates, declaring the party has no preferred list of candidates. The board said all aspirants will compete in a free and fair exercise. Ruto's UDA has been fighting reports it has guaranteed some of its members direct tickets during nominations. NEB chairman Antony Mwaura assured supporters that the party will treat all aspirants eyeing various political seats equally and nobody will be given special consideration. The party will stagger its primaries between April 9 to 16 in all the 47 counties. “DP Ruto has said that the nominations will be free and fair. This means the party has no preferred aspirant and it has not set aside any direct ticket,” Mwaura said. "All aspirants will face Wanjiku’s verdict on nominations day,” he added. The board also gave a February 28 deadline for any aspirant seeking to participate in primaries to pay the nomination fee. “We have started the verification process for those who have paid nomination fees,” the chairman said. The board which was inaugurated last month has embarked on countrywide tours to meet aspirants and assure them of a free and fair exercise. The team will on Thursday and Friday meet aspirants eyeing the UDA ticket for various elective seats in Narok, Bomet, Kericho and Nandi counties. Even as they move around the country, the board stares at a make or break moment for the party. The party has attracted big names locking horns in some of the elective posts. UDA faces headaches in at least 10 counties where it enjoys a near fanatical support and where nomination may lead to major fallouts. Any slight case of bungled nominations could lead to hopefuls bolting out to run as independent candidates. The Independent Electoral and Bounadries Commission has given parties up to April 22 to conduct primaries. Independent candidates – according to the polls body – must submit their symbols by May 2. The biggest challenge for the one-month old NEB will be on the gubernatorial contest, a position regarded as the most lucrative after the presidency. The Mwaura-led team will also face an acid test in Mt Kenya, Rift Valley, parts of the Coast, Western and Kisii, where the party enjoys massive support. For instance, in Uasin Gishu, Soy MP Caleb Kositany, businessman Jonathan Bii, also from Soy and Nairobi executive for Devolution Vesca Kangogo have declared interest to succeed Jackson Mandago who is retiring. In Bomet, the party will witness a tight race pitting incumbent Governor Hillary Barchok and Petroleum CAS John Musonik. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)