Kenyans, in general, have a role to play in preventing violence in the country as the August polls draw near, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said on Thursday. Haji said Kenyans must not always look to hold public agencies accountable when it comes to preventing or dealing with political violence or any other related issue. “It cannot be that everybody is asking us ‘Are we prepared?’. The question should also be directed to Kenyans, what are we going to do and how prepared are we to ensure that we are not incited to violence by the politicians,” said Haji. He spoke at the Kenya Methodist University Mombasa Campus after presiding over the graduation of 120 reformed criminal gang members and drug addicts who had been trained on business skills for three months, courtesy of Haki Africa. “It starts with you. If you as Kenyans accept not to be used negatively, then we are going to have a peaceful election,” said Haji. He said elections are about competitions and there must be winners and losers. He said the government is putting systems in place to reduce any incidences of fraud and election rigging. "Aggrieved Kenyans have the courts to run to," he said. However, Haji cautioned politicians against abusing youth, saying eventually, they are the ones who will be held responsible for the actions of the youth. The DPP said measures are being put in place to ensure politicians do not incite youth to violence in any part of the country. During the electioneering periods, politicians are said to often use youth to gain an advantage over their rivals. For instance, they fund some projects for the youth during the campaign period with the sole purpose of winning their trust and votes. However, once the electioneering period ends, they abandon the youth and the projects, making the youth go back to crime. “I would urge the youth to make use of the projects being brought to them. However, they should abandon politicians who incite them to violence,” said Haji. The ODPP is currently dealing with more than 50 cases of incitement to violence and related cases. Haji said they face major challenges in successfully prosecuting such cases because witnesses always refuse to give testimonies in court. “Many times people do not want to give evidence as witnesses. That is the biggest challenge we have,” said Haji. He said media houses and journalists also rarely want anything to do with such court cases although in most cases, they are the ones who record politicians' remarks. Harassment cases Female politicians at the Coast had said they are sexually harassed by their male counterparts and their supporters and called for more protection from the state when campaigning. Haji said the ODPP has issued guidelines on Sexual and Gender-Based Violence. “As ODPP, we have trained female prosecutors on SGBV to empower them to successfully deal with such cases,” said Haji. He said the ODPP is keen on the Baby Pendo case, which he said the office wants to use to set precedence so that related cases are successfully prosecuted. “Apart from the Baby Pendo case, there are quite a number of cases that involved women being abused, including women politicians, which are coming up. We hope this will help,” said Haji. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid called on the media to be ready to provide evidence on incitement to violence cases. “This is to be able to help our country get away from the path of conflict,” said Khalid. He said incitement to violence cases end up being bungled and perpetrators go scot-free because of lack of sufficient evidence. “Let us not be afraid to provide evidence. Some agencies will stand with you and protect you,” said Khalid.