The never-ending onslaught through election law amendments is a choreographed attempt to install a puppet on the Kenyan electorates, Deputy President William Ruto has said. The Dp was referring to radical proposals to amend the election laws to pave way for both manual and electronic transmission of presidential results in the August 9, general elections. "The plan is evil and must fail. The people have resoundingly said HATUPANGWINGWI.," Ruto said. "The desperate efforts to install project kitendawili by forceful, illegal, undemocratic and unconstitutional means portends a troubling future for Kenya, its democracy, the rule of law, freedom of its citizens and, ultimately, everyone's well-being." Ruto said the move to alter election transmission is an assault on the Constitution. "The assaults on the Constitution through reckless legislative and administrative sleights off-hand, by dark forces operating in shadows, are fundamental ingredients of a coup — the sovereignty of the people of Kenya is under grave threat," the Dp said. An election showdown is looming between troops allied to Deputy President William Ruto and those of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The proposed law says any failure to transmit the results electronically would not be grounds for the Supreme Court to nullify the presidential vote. Many parts of Kenya are still not covered by a 3G network and the proposed amendment could open an avenue for the IEBC to resort to the manual transmission of results. In 2017, the IEBC was unable to transmit results from at least 10,000 polling stations that were not covered by a 3G network. The Elections (Amendment) Bill, 2022, sponsored by the state and introduced in the House by Majority leader Amos Kimunya also provides for a complementary mechanism for voter identification. This means IEBC officials would be allowed to use manual registers where Kiems kits fail. "The commission shall put in place a complementary mechanism for identification of voters and transmission of election results that is simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent," part of the proposed amendment reads. Among the provisions is that returning officers managing the election would have to travel to Nairobi with the results after transmitting the same electronically. The proposed changes also seek to do away with the live transmission of results.