The Sh342 million market at Kangari shopping centre in Kigumo, Murang’a county, will be completed by September. The market being constructed by the national government is 45 per cent complete and is one of the Jubilee government flagship projects in Mt Kenya. The six-storey market will help farmers export their produce. It will be fitted with cold rooms, meeting halls, restaurants and offices. The construction of a Sh3 billion highway connecting Murang’a and Nyandarua counties will also help farmers consolidate their produce at the market. The market will act as a collection centre for agricultural produce from Murang’a and the surrounding counties. Kangari market will accommodate 650 traders and is expected to create employment for residents while boosting the local economy. Murang’a county commissioner Karuku Ngumo said the 520 traders from the old market will be prioritised during stalls allocation. The remaining places will be allocated to interested traders through balloting before the market is handed over to the county government. “I want to assure you that the process of allocating stalls will be transparent. I urge those who were displaced to be patient until the market is done,” he said. Ngumo, who spoke during the County Development Implementation and Coordination Committee site visit on Wednesday said the contractor had pledged to have the project completed and handed over by September. While expressing his satisfaction with the construction works, he said the market is being constructed in a way that will enable people with disabilities to use it. With the Mau Mau road network that crisscrosses the county, many farmers in the higher and more agriculturally productive parts will be able to easily access the market. They will earn better returns from their produce. In the nearby Kangema constituency, the national government is also in the process of establishing a Sh31 million market at Kanyenya-ini shopping centre. Construction works started last September and the project is 40 per cent complete. The market is expected to be completed by March. It will accommodate over 150 traders. The county commissioner underscored the need for contractors to observe the laid down timelines to ensure residents benefit from the facility as soon as possible. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)