The belief in witchcraft and fear of being cursed keeps many Kwale young people, especially women, from seeking leadership roles, an NGO has said. The Network for Adolescent and Youth of Africa under the She Leads programme said many young people in the county are afraid of showcasing their talents. Naya officer Esther Ndina said they fear that if they shine in their work, jealous people and rivals will hurt them with witchcraft. Ndina leads a  five-year programme meant to empower youth, mostly women aged 14 to 24 years and those 18 to 30 years. Ndinya said a large number of the community still believes in witchcraft and passes the belief onto children. "We have observed youth don't want to address or expose a talent publicly, believing there are sorcerers n the community who will harm them. "Youth shun leadership roles, thinking they might be harmed through dark powers if they perform brilliantly," she said. Beliefs in witchcraft are most prevalent in Msambweni, Matuga and Lunga Lunga subcounties. Ndinya said young people think some people are jealous when someone's child excels, forcing talented young ones to keep a low profile. She said the outdated belief has affected the prosperity of the youth and undermined women's rights since they are the most affected. Ndinya spoke at Bombo village in Matuga subcounty while sensitising communities against the outdated culture and traditions depriving women of equal opportunities. The officer said most of the Kwale community is stuck in the old habit of devaluing women and treating them like pets. She said most teen pregnancies and early marriages are a result of downgrading women's roles in society. Ndinya said a huge number of girls they have rescued from illegal wedlock were denied equal educational opportunities by their parents. "Some community members don't want to educate girls because they find it weird spending much on them knowing they will be married off," she said. She said many girls have given in to the idea and agree to early marriage. Last year, Kwale had more than 9,000 teen pregnancies and a number of girls were rescued by rights organisations and taken back to school. During the last KCPE examinations, more than 29 candidates gave birth in Matuga constituency alone. Ndinya said since the She Leads program started, the number of cases has declined and more women are aspiring to leadership. She said many have been engaged in mentorship and development programmes and have become good ambassadors. Hazina youth group chairwoman Hazina Saidi said they have made great strides in breaking down harmful traditions undermining women's rights. Hazina said more parents are sending back young mothers to school; previously, they had been married off after getting pregnant. (Edited by V. Graham)