Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker will seek to reignite their title defence hopes when they flex muscles with Ulinzi Stars at ASK Grounds, Nakuru this evening. The brewers, who have not been in their best element this season, seem to have found their lost magic after asserting authority in their last three league encounters. They beat Bandari 2-0 at Ruaraka a fortnight ago and replicated the performance in their reverse fixture at Mbaraki Sports Club a couple of days later. The Robert Matano-led charges then cruised past Ulinzi Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday to fire themselves to the sixth spot on the log with 29 points, eight adrift of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. The development is a big plus for the Ruaraka-based club who have been wallowing in the bottom half of the table for the better part of the season. On the other hand, Ulinzi — buoyed by the return of their head coach Benjamin Nyangweso from advanced military training — are 13th on the log with 21 points. Ulinzi, who have been blowing hot and cold in their assignments this season, have been groping in the dark to reclaim the sparkle that characterized them in the yesteryears. Elsewhere, KPL debutants Kenya Police have laid the ground for the construction of a new stadium where they will train and host their league matches. The club held a ground-breaking ceremony at the CID Training School in South C, Nairobi on Monday. Deputy Inspector General Edward Mbugua, club chairman Nyale Munga and chief executive officer Chris Onguso graced the event. The club projects the construction to last for a year. "Kenya Police are just a few months from owning a Stadium,” read a statement posted on the club's Facebook account. Upon completion, the stadium could ease off the ballooning pressure on the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee who have grappled with the nagging headache of identifying quality venues for top-flight fixtures. In an exclusive interview earlier in the year, the committee's competitions secretary Ali Amour decried a dearth of quality pitches and hoped the government would fast track the refurbishment of the existing stadiums. At the moment, KPL fixtures are held at Nyayo stadium, Utalii, Ruaraka, Moi Stadium, Kasarani, and Kasarani Annex which are all located in Nairobi. Other facilities are Bukhunghu Stadium (Kakamega), Sudi Stadium ( Bungoma), Wundanyi Stadium (Taita), Mbaraki Sports Club (Mombasa) and Thika Stadium.