A Vietnamese who allegedly swindled a city casino of Sh6.5 million has been charged with fraud. Nguyen Thi Hoa was charged before Kibera senior principal magistrate William Tulel where she denied the charges. The charge sheet read in court said the accused induced Galaxy Casino in Kilimani, Nairobi, to pay her a greater sum of money for tricks and devices on January 11. The suspect, according to court documents, started playing poker cards at the casino in December last year and became a regular customer. She won several times before the manager realised she was using unusual activities. This made the manager stop her from playing. The company discovered that she was cheating and started gathering evidence before reporting her to the police. The casino had lost Sh6.5 million which the suspect won allegedly by way of cheating. Lawyer Hillary Cheboi appeared in court to represent the complainant in the case. But Hoa, through an interpreter, told the court that she was not cheating and the charges were malicious. Before she was arraigned, the suspect was detained at Kilimani police station as the court looked for an interpreter. “The suspect is a flight risk and we pray that she be detained at Kilimani police station as the court wait for more directions on the matter,” prosecutor Jane Gitai said. The prosecution’s allegations were based on affidavit filed at the court by police constable John Muriuki. The court heard that it was difficult to trace the suspect if released on bond or bail. The suspect, according to the court documents, was arrested on January 22 the same date she was to fly to Vietnam. Her lawyers said she had bought a ticket and prepared to travel before the matter was reported to the police and her travel plans had nothing to do with the case. They applied for bail and bond terms for her. After reading and considering the matter, she was freed on a bond of Sh1 million with two Kenyan sureties of a like sum. She was further directed to surrender her travel documents. The court also directed that the accused person be supplied with witness statements and documentary evidence. The case will be mentioned on March 14 for pre-trial.  (edited by Amol Awuor)