The family of Catherine Achayo Mbandu who perished in a road crash on Ngong Road on Sunday has described her as a jovial soul. They said as everybody else sent generalised birthday wishes to siblings and cousins in WhatsApp groups, she would slide into their in-boxes with personalised messages or make calls. Her cousins Ray and Mercy Eyase said Catherine was reserved yet full of life and made good effort to make those around her comfortable. “She was always bubbly and full of life. It's so sad that we have lost her at that promising age,” Ray told the Star on Thursday. "Even when her body was extracted from the wreckage, her face was smiley, with the space between her front teeth showing." Catherine worked as quality assurance manager at Bfree Credit Management. The 30-year-old ambitious and witty woman was among four people who died when their vehicle plunged into a bridge along Ngong Road. She was seated on the co-driver's seat of the car. the side on which the vehicle crashed. Two occupants were rescued alive from the wreckage. Police said the vehicle was coming from Karen to the City Centre when the driver lost control. The accident happened at the point where the Ngong' Road narrows to two lanes. The vehicle hit a roadside wall before plunging into the track almost five metres down. Road users had complained that its poor workmanship made it a death trap and called for rectification of the bollard at the scene. Kenya Urban Roads Authority director general Silas Kinoti on Tuesday apologised for opening the road before its completion. He said the agency had succumbed to public pressure. “I apologise to the public over the Ngong Road accident that left four people dead. The agency regrets the accident and it’s not its intention to see people die on the roads,” Kinoti said. The family said Catherine was a born again believer whose virtuous life touched her friends since her childhood. “My cousin was trustable and meticulous in all she did,” Ray said, adding that the family was yet to come to terms with the tragic loss. Catherine was the daughter of Martin and Rachael Mbandu who are senior pastors at Christ Is the Answer Ministries (CITAM). She was a sister to Marvin, Sheldon, Loice and Sarah Mbandu. “I know we will all remember her even though she is no longer present with us physically but together in spirit. Lets make sure her memories live forever,” Ray said. Her workmates said her love for her associates and friends was genuine and impactful. “We’re grateful and celebrate Cathy’s life – a life lived simply and with great zest. She proved you don’t need to pursue some great calling beyond loving the people around you to make a sizable impact,” they said. The Daystar University Alumni Association where she was a member said  Catherine’s family and friends should sustain the legacy of her life. “Let’s continue making the people around us feel special and make friends wherever we go,” they said. Her funeral service will be held at CITAM Valley Road on Tuesday, March 1 at 10am. Her body will then be transported for burial at Lunyu in Kolongolo, Trans Nzoia county, on Thursday, March 3. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)