Ever baked a cake or shopped from the supermarket only to have a bite and taste the disappointment? Typically, a cake will stay fresh for up to three or four days, but without proper handling, it will go bad in a short period. As soon as you cut a cake, moisture begins to escape and may cause the cake to dry up or go stale more quickly. Whether the cake is frosted or not, the method you use to store ensures the ingredients and taste is preserved, keeping your cake moist for enjoyment. Here are a few steps you can follow to revive your cake: Method 1 Cover with a cling film; This protects it from moisture loss, and for more protection, you can cover and put it in the fridge for 2 to 3 days. If your cake is frosted, take a large bowl and put the cake inside. Then cover the bowl with cling film. A foil or an airtight container can also do the same thing. Method 2 Refrigeration; this comes in handy if your cake includes a fresh fruit filling or topping, or has a frosting made with whipped cream or mascarpone. Do cover and refrigerate it until you are ready to serve. Remember to always cover cakes before storing them in the fridge to protect the cake from drying out or absorbing refrigerator smells and bacteria. Method 3 Wait for the cake to cool first; wrapping the cake in cling film or foil when it is still hot will lead to a messy condensation that can make your cake go bad. Method 4 Revive the cake; This can be done by brushing a few tablespoons of milk to your dry cake. You can eat it like that or cover it and store it in the fridge for 20 minutes before serving. Method 5 When baking; Avoid baking at a very high temperature and use the metal pans to bake because glass and silicon pans don’t allow the cake to bake properly. Also, remember to stick to the recipe in terms of measuring the ingredients, they have to be balanced. Method 6 Glaze the cake with a basic syrup. Mix a cup of water with a cup of sugar and heat until the sugar melts. It's a traditional workaround that pastry chefs commonly use, then you can add flavour or essence for better taste.