Lamu elders have raised concern over increased consumption of viagra and other sex boosting drugs commonly known as blue pills. Consumption is especially high in young men between the ages of 20 to 38. The elders feel manufactured sex boosters carry many side effects. They urge men to embrace local foods and aphrodisiacs which have been proven to be twice effective. Lamu elder Muhashiam Famau said it is wrong for young men to become addicted to blue pills at an age where their bodies are still healthy and strong. “If they have to, let them use our traditional aphrodisiacs. Those ones are known to solve even what blue pills can’t,” Famau said. In Lamu, commonly used traditional aphrodisiacs include octopus, nutmeg, turtle fat, and mushrooms. Men are advised to include at least two or three of the foods in their daily meals for a healthy sex life. The traditional aphrodisiacs are readily available and men can save up on money they would have used on pills. Another elder Mohamed Sayyid says the traditional aphrodisiacs are proven and tested as they were successfully used by ancestors. “Back then because of such foods, men would marry even five wives and none would go to seek gratification outside their marriage. "As elders we can vouch for this and say they work. People should stop filling up their bodies with dangerous pills,” Sayyid said. Elder Ali Gubo advises men to resist pills and try the local foods. “The problem is that people want instant results and that’s why they are quick to go for pills. "The pills might work in the meantime but in the long run they leave you with undesirable side effects,” Gubo said. The pills work by increasing blood flow to the penis during sexual stimulation, followed by a firm erection. It's however not all fun and games as some men die ‘in the line of duty’ after using the pills. Between December 2020 and January 2021, scores of men died across the country after using the pills. “With the local foods however, there is no overdose or underdose. You eat whatever you can and it still works. It is the safest,” elder Adam Mudhin said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)