Football Kenya Federation presidential aspirant, Twaha Mbarak, reckons the meeting between the FKF Caretaker Committee and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has set the right tone for credible polls. The two entities met on Wednesday to chart the way forward and lay ground for a fresh electoral process that will usher in a new office. The Aaron Ringera-led caretaker committee was constituted by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed in November last year to replace the ousted FKF officials who were hounded out of office following a heated spat with government. “We football stakeholders welcome FKF Caretaker Committee’s engagement with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC),” said Mbarak. “That they discussed electoral assistance to the Caretaker Committee is a major statement by the FKF Caretaker Committee.” “As you are aware, the government as a major stakeholder in sports in this country, mandated the FKF Caretaker Committee to among other things; coordinate elections of FKF in accordance to the Sports Act 2013 and the Sports Registrar’s Regulations.” Mbarak said the move by the caretaker committee to engage the country's elections body was timely and in good spirit. “Engaging the IEBC does not only guarantee total independence of the electoral process, but also ensures interested parties not have control of the voters’ register.” Mbarak decried widespread electoral malpractices witnessed in the past where the incumbency devised unlawful means to keep opponents at bay. “The biggest problem football stakeholders in Kenya are faced with is an FKF leadership that crafts an electoral code designed to lock out challengers.” “FKF has consistently flouted the FIFA Standard Electoral Code provisions of the need to avoid any conflict of interests that could discredit the impartiality of the elections.” Mbarak said the presence of IEBC in all the 295 sub-counties of Kenya would ensure a smooth and efficient process. “With the IEBC and the Sports Registrar having a close eye on the voters’ register, it is possible to get legitimate leadership that will ensure that Kenyan football grows like elsewhere in the world.” “It is the stakeholders’ desire that we have transparent and credible elections within the six-months of the FKF Caretaker Committee’s mandate,” he concluded. 