Just before the dust settles after Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege made remarks suggesting Jubilee rigged the 2017 elections, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has made claims that some leaders were rigged out in the polls. Sabina at Azimio La Umoja tour in Vihiga county last week claimed that the poll results in 2017 were stolen and that it could be duplicated in the August 9 elections. She has already been summoned before an Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Committee for the rigging remarks she made. Kuria, who spoke during his thanksgiving prayers ceremony at Thika stadium on Saturday, said that leaders including former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando and Martha Karua who contested for the Kirinyaga County governor seat, and lost to the incumbent Anne Waiguru, were rigged out. "Even if I was not the cook in that kitchen, I used to carry salt, so I know all that transpired," Kuria said. He also revealed that the Jubilee nominations in Thika were rigged in favour of former MP Alice Ng'ang'a. He said MP Patrick Wainaina who was present in the event told him that he was rigged out. Wainaina contested for the seat as an independent candidate and toppled Ng'ang'a who was flying the Jubilee flag. Kuria, in a thinly-veiled statement said that the rigging was orchestrated by some senior leaders at the party. He took a dig at aspirants seeking the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) ticket for various seats especially in the Mt Kenya region saying that they will be left crying and running for safe havens in the region's parties, which have been referred to as village parties especially by Deputy President William Ruto, after the April nominations. "Will there be anyone to fight for UDA ticket with Alice Wahome in Kandara, Ndindi Nyoro in Kiharu, Rigathi Gachagua in Mathira or Kimani Ichungw'a in Kikuyu? Will other aspirants get just nominations?" Kuria poised. Leaders present including Martha Karua, Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kabando Wa Kabando, Patrick Wainaina and Kiambu governor James Nyoro called for strengthening of the region's parties. Karua dismissed calls to fold the parties saying that joining one party will be fuelling dictatorship and a recipe for rigging in nominations.