Residents affected by drought and banditry attacks in Turkana have received food donations from the Kenya Red Cross to save lives and improve nutrition. Michael Aiyabei, Red Cross head of disaster management, said they are working with county and national governments to help victims suffering from drought, banditry and communal clashes. The distribution targets 350 families. Aiyabei said the drought has ravaged resources such water and pastures that pastoralists depend on to feed their livestock. He said drought has led to a scramble for scarce resources, leading to conflicts among pastoralist communities. “One serious thing that drives conflict between communities is drought. Every day it's getting drier and herders compete for scarce resources. Ayaibei said they are reaching out to the displaced persons to cushion them from effects of hunger as they continue to appeal for more support to the areas hard hit by drought. He said they have also reached displaced families as result of banditry attacks at Kaakong in Turkana South and Sarmach, Nasol in West Pokot County. Resident Naomi Ekuwom of Ngilukia and a victim thanked the Red Cross. “We are battling drought and banditry attacks. Last week, bandits came and stole my livestock. We don’t have water and and we're grateful for food. She received rice, beans, cooking oil, salt and non-food items to help them her family cope. Resident Peter Ejore of Kamuge urged security agencies to strengthen strengthen security so calm returns. For many years, he said, they battle drought an violent criminals who steal their animals and belongings. Turkana East deputy county commissioner Saidi Shabaan said the donatd food will help families displaced by bandits. Shabaan said the donated food to residents of Kamuge, Napeitom and Lomelo in Turkana East will help families whose food was stolen by bandits fron a neighbouring county The food is for 300 families in Kamuge and 50 families in Napeitom. “We had calm in the region for the last seven months until January and early February. In Napeitom we lost an old woman and a child and in between Kamuge and Lomelo we lost a boda boda operator,” he said. After almost three years of peace in Turkana and West Pokot counties, bandits launched attacks in Kainuk in Turkana South early this month driving away an unknown number of livestock. In Napeitom, Turkana East, bandits last week killed a 30-year-old woman and a seven-year-old boy. Several people were also injured as the bandits drove away livestock towards Tiaty. In Turkana South, armed bandits attacked Koptiro (in Kainuk) Nariamao, Karenyang’ and Eco-lodge villages on February 3, and made off with more than 1,000 livestock. Turkana commissioner Boniface Wambua issued a shoot-to-kill order against armed bandits. (Edited by V. Graham)