A 21-year-old shopkeeper from Muthatari in Embu is in tears after she won a new Isuzu NMR Truck in an ongoing energy company promotion. Wincate Wawira, a mother of one, won the truck worth Sh4 million in the ongoing Vivo Energy Kenya promotion dubbed, “Jaza Raha Na shell, Shinda Nyumba”. Wawira and her husband Mathew Mwangi, who had accompanied her following an invite from the company during its Embu county edition, could not hide their joy after Wawira was announced the winner. Wawira operates a small retail shop at Muthatari village while her husband is a matatu driver with the Nairobi Embu Nissan Operators (Neno). She said the event was a life-changer from their current state.“I am very delighted to win the Isuzu NMR truck.  I never expected to be the winner. I’m really grateful to shell for giving me the opportunity to make my dream come true,” said Wawira. Wawira. who is also a small scale farmer, said that the truck will boost her to venture into the logistics business. Vivo energy Kenya Managing Director Peter Murungi said that their aim is to appreciate the company’s loyal customers across the country through the promotion. He said that the promotion also intends to change the lives of their customers through awards that will benefit their day to day activities. Murungi also congratulated Wawira for winning the truck. “I take this opportunity to congratulate Wincate Wawira for being the lucky winner of this powerful vehicle. It will go a long way in improving and enhancing her business. The promotion is a way of giving back to our customers and boosting their business plans and income.  All we can say is thank you for patronizing Shell service stations,” said Murungi. The promotion has been running since November 12, 2021, and has seen customers winning prizes including motorcycles every week, with the grand prize being a three bed-room house. The promotion comes in handy as one is required to fuel a minimum amount of Sh300 for a motorcycle to win and Sh1,000 for a vehicle. Justin Mutembei from Runyenjes, Embu, and David Mirau won a motorcycle each, making Embu stand out on the ongoing promotion by having all the weekly winners come from Embu. Vivo was also celebrating 60 years of operation in Embu County.