ODM deputy party leaders Wycliffe Oparanya and Hassan Joho have officially dropped their presidential ambitions and endorsed party leader Raila Odinga. Oparanya said Raila was more experienced and thus the best candidate to fly the party's flag. "I also wanted to be president but having looked at the climate, and Raila being more experienced than I am, I am withdrawing my bid today in support of Raila," he said. "I do hereby propose that Raila be our next candidate in the August elections. We are giving him all the powers to go out there and negotiate with other leaders to ensure he becomes the 5th president." Mombasa Governor Joho also shelved his presidential ambitions in favour of the ODM leader, terming him the best contender to clinch the presidential seat. "You are my father and having been brought up well, there is absolutely no way I can contest with my father in any competition," Joho said. "You have been my political mentor when I joined politics since 2004. You held me and you never left me. I take pride to have learnt too many lessons in my political career from you," he added. The Mombasa governor said the August polls was Raila's moment. "We, therefore, commit all that we have and all that we can with all the zeal that we can provide going forward to ensure we deliver this presidency to you," he said. The duo had previously shown interest in the presidency, with both eyeing the ODM ticket. On Thursday, Raila was fronted as the ODM party presidential candidate in the August 9 elections. ODM National Executive Committee made the announcement after a meeting held at Chungwa House, Nairobi, on Thursday. The NEC at the same time approved the party's desire to join the Azimio la Umoja coalition. "That it be proposed to the NGC to ratify the decision by NEC that the Orange Democratic Movement formally joins the Azimio la Umoja coalition/ coalition party," ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said in a statement. The move dealt a blow to businessman Jimi Wanjigi who had been seeking the ODM ticket for his presidential bid. Wanjigi had moved to court to block the ODM NDC scheduled for Friday and Saturday after the nomination of the presidential candidate failed to appear among the list of the agenda. The businessman wanted the party to include the election of the presidential candidate in the agenda so that he can face off with Raila for the ODM ticket. The court, however, declined to suspend the ODM NDC.