The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri has hit out at presidential aspirants promising to change the economy yet they have served in the government for years. He said prominent members of Azimio La Umoja and Kenya Kwanza have served in different government capacities and should have implemented the policies they are now promising. Kiunjuri spoke at Kihoya AIPCA church in Kangema, Murang’a, on Sunday. The former Cabinet secretary cited ODM leader Raila Odinga, who he said has been in the Jubilee government through the March 9, 2018, handshake. Kiunjuri said Raila had a chance to work for Kenyans and make their lives better when he served as Prime Minister in the grand coalition government and Minister for Roads in the Narc government. Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi have all served in previous governments, he said. “Both Kalonzo and Mudavadi served in very senior positions. Now they are the same politicians going around the country reminding us of our problems and telling us that they will make our lives better. What do they know now that they did not know then?” Kiunjuri asked. UDA leader William Ruto on the other hand is the Deputy President and should not be going around making promises, he said. Kiunjuri urged Kenyans to interrogate the pledges being made to make good choices. He said the promises being made now are the same old ones. Kiunjuri said anybody trying to woo Mt Kenya residents must explain how he will implement the one man, one vote, one shilling system of resources distribution. Residents, he said, want to be told how their representation will be increased, saying the region should have an extra 40 MPs. “You tell us that you have given us Sh40 billion in women's enterprise fund but where is the Sh200 billion that the region should be getting from the national government?” Kiunjuri said. “We want someone who will tell us how we will get more representation so that our children can get more bursaries and development, that the ongoing reforms in the agriculture sector will be accelerated and better markets found.” Kiunjuri said it is appalling that leaders have resorted to trading insults and accusations yet they all have had a chance to work for Kenyans. All Kenyans want, he said, is to be able to live good quality lives where food and education are affordable. Kiunjuri asked presidential aspirants to outline clear frameworks on how they will improve Kenyan lives. He said many Kenyans are sinking into poverty as food prices continue to soar and their returns dwindle. “For the first time in a very long time, Kenyans are going to bed on empty stomachs because they cannot afford food. Prices of commodities such as cooking oil are at an all-time high,” Kiunjuri said. Kiunjuri cautioned residents of the Mt Kenya region to scrutinise aspirants before deciding which one to support. You should also try to understand the previous political partnerships and why they did not work, he said. “We need to ask ourselves what went wrong between Raila and Kalonzo, Raila and Mudavadi, Uhuru and Ruto, and Kibaki and Raila? What drove wedges between their partnerships? What would prevent a similar falling out in the formations being seen right now?” Kiunjuri said. “If they pick deputies from the region, what would stop a fall-out such as the one between Uhuru and Ruto and what then would happen to the region?” He said the aspirants should stop pointing fingers at each other and instead focus on seeking their own votes. Kiunjuri cautioned locals against voting for parties, saying it is individual leaders who will deliver. “If someone asks for your vote on the basis of their presidential candidate, ask them where they have been and what they have done so that we don’t jump into a trap,” he said. He said farmers want an assurance that agricultural imports such as milk and eggs will not flood the market. Kiunjuri said it is regrettable that presidential campaigns had been reduced to coalition talks and how power will be shared. (Edited by Francis Wadegu)