Harsh climate usually compromises your skin's barrier, making it less proficient at holding/locking in moisture. Thus leaving your skin looking dry and thirsty. Not giving your skin the nourishment it needs, can potentially create more damage to its barrier function, making it more susceptible to environmental factors and other irritants. It's just the same concept as our ozone layer. Due to this factor, both males and females are constantly urged to invest and include good moisturizers in their daily skin routines. Ingredients in your standard moisturizer are designed to not only help improve your skin’s hydration but decrease its susceptibility to irritation, and help restore the skin’s barrier. However, in order to reap these benefits, one needs to ensure that they’ve got the right moisturizer and most importantly that it's working properly for their skin type and complexion. Below are some red flag: 1. Stinging or burning While a soft tingling sensation can sometimes indicate that a skin-care product is working, this isn’t the case with moisturizers. If you experience any stinging or burning, that's an indication that the moisturizer isn’t compatible with your skin or you have a sensitivity to one or more of the ingredients in it. 2. Makeup piling Moisturizers are supposed to help create a smooth base for your makeup, so if you notice your foundation pilling, this may be attributed to your moisturizer being too thick. If that’s the case, you need to switch to a gel-textured product for a thinner, but equally hydrating, alternative. 3. Breakouts If your skin is breaking out or feeling bumpy after applying moisturizer, this may mean that the moisturizer is comedogenic. That means it's clogging your pores thus causing inflammatory pimples as well as open and closed comedones. Look for non-comedogenic moisturizers as well as products that say oil-free on their labels, and are infused with hydration like glycine, honey, Aloe Vera, and lactic acid. 4. Dry skin This may seem obvious, but if you’ve been using a moisturizer for two to three weeks and are not seeing any positive changes in your skin’s texture,then it’s definitely time to swap. You should look for a moisturizer with more hydrating ingredients, in order to give your skin the nourishment it needs to stay healthy. Ensure to observe these steps especially when trying a moisturizer for the first time. Be sure to check the ingredients before buying a product. Alternatively, test it on your palm while shopping to see how it reacts with your skin.