Higher learning institutions have been urged to invest in digital literacy and infrastructure to nurture an innovative culture in the country. Zetech deputy vice chancellor Dr Alice Njuguna said that initiatives such as opening of ICT and innovation hubs will be important in honing students’ digital skills and preparing them to fit in the competitive global job market. She spoke during the award ceremony of the Huawei ICT Competition (Cloud Track) 2021-2022 at the university on Monday. “As institutions of higher learning, we need to be at the forefront of fostering digital literacy through setting up innovation hubs. This way, we will be channelling a skilled workforce into the job market,” Dr Njuguna said. She added that the university has invested heavily in research and innovation, citing the opening of a Sh6 million Innovation Hub that offers space for students. “We have fully equipped the hub with relevant equipment and installations that will help our innovative students with great business ideas realise them," Dr Njuguna said. "We are determined to assist our students so that they can be a problem-solving lot so as to make meaningful contributions to the community and the country at large.” Dr Njuguna appreciated the efforts by Huawei to mentor young ICT professionals by ensuring that they are equipped with the latest skills and competencies in the industry. “Such initiatives give university students an avenue to gain hands-on skills, boost their employability and improve their capacity to be innovative,”she said. Julius Kirimi, an IT and engineering student at the university, emerged second out of 50 participants in a competition that attracted more than 3,000 applications from Kenyan universities. One fifty students were shortlisted out of the total applications received to compete at the national final. The Huawei competition is a competitive ICT talent event developed by the company for students globally. With this year’s theme being 'Connection, Glory, Future', the competition brought together governments, institutions of higher learning, training institutions and industry enterprises. The aim is to nurture and cultivate growth and employment of young ICT specialists from universities and colleges. This way, the ICT talent ecosystem blooms. Kirimi was among six national finalists who received 1st, 2nd and 3rd place awards under the Network and Cloud Track representing students from Discover JKUAT, USIU-Africa, Zetech University and the University of Nairobi. The finalists were awarded with laptops, mobile phones, vouchers and certificates of achievement.  (edited by Amol Awuor)