A Mombasa advocate Mathew Nyabena has joined the race to succeed former Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi. On Monday, Nyabena said the time has come for the coveted seat to come to Mombasa, which is considered to be the cradle of law practice in the country. Established in 1911, the Mombasa Law Society is the oldest bar in Kenya that gave rise to law practice in the country. Despite Mombasa Law Society's rich history, the LSK presidency has eluded the region twice. Mombasa-based lawyers Justus Munyithya and Taib Ali Taib have unsuccessfully run for the position before. Nyabena, 46, who boasts of 20 years experience in law, promised to unite the society if elected president in the March 17 election. “I will do my best to balance all interests to create one team of LSK where all voices are heard and members reign supreme. Young and senior lawyers will converge and converse,” Nyabena told Star. He is the outgoing MLS chairperson and the chairman of the LSK Coast branch. He also chairs the branch chairmen’s caucus. “The challenge we have had within LSK is that leaders do not speak together. Once elected, I will seek out all former leaders for a meeting so that for once we put our differences aside,” he said. His campaign is based on seven agendas with priorities being the unity of members, rule of law, creating a member-centred secretariat and prompt in-house dispute resolution mechanisms. He intends to bring reforms to the LSK act, empower all branches in terms of practice and welfare and involve both young and senior lawyers in the affairs of the society. “We are on a crucial journey in the history of LSK. We need the respect that LSK had to advance the rule of law, the society is not supposed to be political, it is supposed to be bipartisan so that rule of law is lifted and we remain united,” he said. He was confident in capturing the seat, playing the narrative, the Nairobi region has dominated the position because of numbers. He said several lawyers from Nairobi and other regions have endorsed him for the seat. “Lawyers are very smart, they can choose the best person to lead them. When you vote with reason and not emotions, you choose the best, I believe I am the best,” he said. Nyabena has been very instrumental in keeping the Mombasa Law Society vibrant and united. He is expected to hand over powers to the new chairperson on Friday. The team has been undertaking several activities outside the court including family day outs, workout sessions and hiking expeditions with the major one being hiking Mt Kenya last December. “I decided to run for LSK presidency while at the top of Mt Kenya. There were problems within the society and people speaking in different voices,” he said. LSK was established by an Act of Parliament in 1948, it now boasts of about 18,000 registered members. Edited by Kiilu Damaris