Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua has denied claims that she was behind the heckling of Senator Amos Wako during an Azimio la Umoja rally on February 12. There have been claims that Mutua organised youth to heckle the former Attorney General. Both Mutua and Wako are seeking to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong. After the rally at Busia Stadium, Wako’s supporters pointed an accusing finger at Mutua, accusing the MP of employing dirty politics which they said was unhealthy for Busia. But Mutua’s supporters told off Wako's backers, saying the senator was heckled by residents who are tired of his leadership because he is rarely seen in the county. Mutua and Wako are expected to face-off during the ODM party primaries to pick the flag bearer for the governor post. Deputy Governor Moses Mulemi and former Funyula Paul Otuoma are also in the race. Wako is yet to comment on the heckling. In a statement on February 15, Mutua said she would not stoop low to humiliate the former Attorney General at a rally. The rally was attended by governors Ojaamong, Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) and Mombasa’s Hassan Joho. Others were MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Sabina Chege (Murang'a), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Wilberforce Mudenyo (Funyula), Junet Mohamed (Suna East),  Mishi Mboko (Likoni), David Ochieng (Ugenya), Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi) and Narok Senator Ledama Olekina. “It has come to my attention that there is a rumour going around that I organised people to heckle Hon Amos Wako at Busia Stadium during the Saturday Azimio rally,” Mutua said. “I haven’t spoken to Hon Amos Wako in a long time and had no information on his expected attendance.” “I never even saw Senator Wako at the podium. We were already late from the Malaba rally, only managing to squeeze in a two-minute speech before hurriedly leaving for home to meet visitors who had been waiting since 9am. I have no reason to have Wako or any other leader heckled.” Wako is seen as a strong contender in the race to succeed Ojaamong. The senator enjoys a close association with ODM leader Raila Odinga. “People who are familiar with my politics know that I never discuss other leaders or have time for fights. It is also strange that I would be the only leader to plan that,” Mutua said. “The person who started this rumour is well-known, as is his political affiliation.  Wako can conduct his investigations independently to determine the motive and masterminds of this act.” “My billboards were taken down, which is illegal, but I have not named anyone. I am hoping that bringing them down benefited the individual politically.” Busia is among counties where the governor is serving the last term. Competition to replace Ojaamong is expected to intensify as campaigns begin to take shape. There have been calls from leaders in the county for residents and contestants for the various elective posts to embrace peace as they campaign. There are seven governor hopefuls in Busia. They include Wako, Mutua, Mulomi, Otuoma, former Education chief officer Dan Mogoria and Nambale MP John Bunyasi who is eyeing the seat on an ANC party ticket.   -Edited by SKanyara