Kwale security agencies have started a crackdown on scrap metal shops following the government directive to ban the business. The operations will be conducted by a multi-agency team comprising of Kenya Power officials, Kenya Electricity Transmission Company, police officers and local administrators. The directive comes after a major power supply breakdown following the collapse of a high voltage transmission tower at the Kiambere-Embakasi power line last month. The officials raised concern over the increased vandalisation of the power line poles by residents. In Kwale, there has been a surge in power lines, street light poles and road signage being vandalised. The destruction of the critical infrastructure has led to massive losses and endangering human life. Last year, County Development Implementation Coordinating Committee raised an alarm over rising vandalism and theft of the installed Dongo-Kundu road equipment. The committee attributed the vandalism to the delay in the completion of the road and losses worth millions. Speaking during an interview in his office on Friday, county commissioner Gideon Oyagi said the crackdown will protect private and government infrastructural properties. “The power stations, power lines, transformers, power among other materials are well safeguarded,” he said. He said they will be checking scrap metal shops randomly, to see if they are operating. Some people are believed to be conducting the metal business secretly despite the ban. Oyagi said the scrap metal business is encouraging the destruction of property and most metals seized are from vandalised infrastructure in the region. The commissioner warned anyone found dealing with scrap metals will be dealt with according to the law. He said perpetrators risk huge fines and jail terms. Oyagi cautioned residents against invading power line areas. He said constructing structures under electricity lines is forbidden and dangerous. Oyagi said the security team is surveying and clearing people who are living near the electricity pathways. Last month, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i ordered people living on transmission power lines reserved areas across the country to vacate. He gave them 30 days or action will be taken. Oyagi said the security team is determined to ensure the affected individuals clear from the mentioned areas within the set duration. However, Matiang'i said the exercise should be done humanly and follow the legal process. Edited by Kiilu Damaris