Third-term Baringo North MP William Cheptumo wants to run for the Senate seat held by Kanu boss Gideon Moi. Cheptumo made the announcement during Deputy President William Ruto's Kenya Kwanza rally in Kabarnet town on Sunday. “I want to make it clearly known to the people of Baringo that I will step down as Baringo North MP to contest for the county senatorial seat,” he said. He said he has 15 years in office and has built numerous development projects in his constituency, including roads, schools and health facilities. "It is now about time to grow and seek a higher political position to serve the people of Baringo county and Kenya," Cheptumo said. He leaves the seat at a time when the lower volatile parts of the constituency are still facing myriad challenges. They include banditry and cattle rustling that delay development projects, including water supply, schools, roads and equipping health facilities. "But despite all the challenges of insecurity, I have tried my best and achieved much during my tenure," the outgoing MP reiterated. "I know these problems will end once the next government led by Deputy President William ruto takes over," he said. It is now up to the incoming legislature to utilise the available resources to address the development challenges bedevilling the the constituency, he said. Cheptuma is not the only once who wants Gideon's seat. Rivals include Tenges MCA Silas Tochim, NHIF senior official Isaiah Kirukmet and Australia-based Chamber of Commerce member Felix Chelaite. Baringo Senate seat is occupied by the second-term One Kenya Alliance (Oka) principal Gideon Moi,who is yet to decide his future in Kenyan politics. Some people speculate that if he fails to negotiate an advantageous deal in national politics, he might still come back home to defend his seat. Cheptumo, who is a Ruto diehard, has left the Baringo North seat open for many aspirants. They include Kuppet national official Sammy Chelanga, North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) director Joseph Makilap, Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol, Baringo county secretary Francis Komen and businessman Jonathan Tokei. Meanwhile, during a Kabarnet rally, Madago Governor Jackson Mandago repeated thatahe will also be running for Senate despite some UDA opposition. He urged DP Ruto to intervene and stop his supporters from throwing stones to block his ambition to take over as the next senator for Uasin Gishu. Some UDA members have said Mandago should give someone else a chance. They say he is not very supportive of the the party politically or financially. “This is a democratic country. Let my competitors be independent and come to the ground so  we face the residents  in campaigns as I do,” Mandago said. Second-term Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos is also eyeing a Senate seat, although he is a strong supporter of Oka. (Edited by V.Graham)