The 18-leg NCBA Gold Series will have an expanded schedule covering Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania and will feature both junior and senior golfers. In Kenya, the tournament will run in partnership with Kenya Golf Union and will tee off at Railways Golf Club on February 26, 2022, before heading to other golf courses over the next 11 months. Like the 2021 edition, this year's event will include three junior golf Golf Foundation. NCBA Group managing director, John Gachora, said: “Following the success of last year’s tournament, we are proud to launch a bigger and better 2022 edition of the NCBA Golf Series! Last year, the tournament attracted over 3000 golfers across 16 golf clubs in Kenya. With the inclusion of tournaments in Uganda and Tanzania, this year's edition envisions to engage over 5000 golfers.” He added: “NCBA Series seeks to grow and support not only the senior golfers but also for our juniors. We will continue our strong partnership with the U.S. Kids Golf Foundation to provide a platform for junior golfers to develop their skills and qualify to compete at international events." Last year over 40 of our junior golfers qualified to play at the Rome Classic and the Big 5 tournament in South Africa. "Their strong show in these world-class events affirmed that we are well on our way to developing the future stars of the sport, not just locally but globally," he said. “We are committing Sh30million towards this year’s Series because we also see this as an opportunity to connect deeply with our customers to understand better their needs and identify opportunities to serve them better. "We are a brand that is anchored on inspiring greatness and delivering meaningful value to our customers. I encourage all golfers across the region to participate in this tournament to improve their handicaps and swing their way to greatness!” Gachora was speaking at the official NCBA Golf Series launch event held at the Kenya Railways Golf Club where he unveiled the NCBA Golf Series calendar 