Kakamega Homeboyz skipper Geoffrey Oputi has cautioned his teammates against approaching their next league encounter against Mathare United with laxity. Oputi says they have struggled to squeeze out points from all the competition minnows and reckons that Saturday's encounter against the Slum Boys at Moi Stadium, Kasarani might pose a similar challenge. “It would be unwise to predict an obvious win against Mathare United. If you look at our past matches, you will notice that we have struggled against the teams at the tail end of the table and those considered to have the underdogs tag,” said Oputi. Oputi points out that their unbeaten run was halted by newbies Talanta who stunned them 1-0 at Bukhungu Stadium on January 4, with their former player Edwin Lavatsa inflicting the pain. Homeboyz then toiled to edge debutants Vihiga Bullets in a five-goal thriller at the same venue. However, Oputi believes they still have a glorious opportunity to open a gap on their closest rivals Nairobi City Stars who are hot on their heels with 31 points —  three adrift. “The competition is still far from over and if we manage to maintain our form into our next matches, then we can be able to stretch our lead even further. “We don't feel under pressure in any way. We have been at the summit of the table for the better part of the season and we remain determined to stay there. “We came to the season with a firm resolve of clinching our maiden title. That's why we are battling hard to scoop as many points as we can from every match we are involved in,” said Oputi. Homeboyz are keen to emulate their splendid run in the 2019/2020 season, where they shook off their underdog's tag to come close to wrestling the title away from record champions Gor Mahia. They have been the most consistent side thus far, having bagged nine wins from their 17 matches and losing only once. On the other hand, Mathare United are literally battling for survival in the top tier where they place second from the bottom with a paltry 10 points from 17 fixtures. The Slum Boys, however, appear rejuvenated after overhauling their technical bench where Ezekiel Akwana's unsuccessful reign was brought to an end with the appointment of John Kamau as head coach. Kamau's era took off on a high note after he spearheaded the side to a 2-1 victory over Talanta at Ruaraka grounds in their last outing a week ago.