Garissa Governor Ali Korane’s bid to defend his seat on Saturday got a huge boost after members from a rival clan threw their weight behind him. Rer Ali, one of the subclans from the Awlihan clan, promised to vote for Korane in the August 9 general election. The county is inhabited by three major clans: Abduwak, Awlihan and the Samawadhal. Aulihan is made up of nine subclans with the Rer Ali being the largest. Korane hails from the Awdhaq while former Garissa Governor Nathif Jama comes from the Awlihan clan. They have all since been endorsed by their respective clans as the sole aspirants to fly the community's  flag. Speaking at the governor's residence, religious leaders, youth, women and elders drawn from Galbet, Madogashe, Bananey and Damajaley wards unanimously endorsed Korane's bid for second term in the coming polls. Mzee Hassan Yerrow said they made the decision to back Korane owing to the various development projects he helped initiate in Modogashe subcounty. “As a subclan we have unanimously decided to support you.This is because you have been on the forefront in championing peaceful co-existence within the county and for taking a lead role  to end  the Garissa - Isiolo community conflict,” Yerrow said. He added: “Going forward we will rally all our community members to vote for you. However my simple appeal to all aspirants hunting for votes is to run clean campaigns devoid of incitement and name-calling." Yerror said gone are the days when aspirants chose to use the tribal card to whip up emotions so as to win votes. He provided the example of how he and others decided to vote for a candidate from a different clan owing to his development track record. On his part, Korane thanked them for their good gesture, pledging to address their concerns. Some of the concerns include water crisis, adding the Sh400 million  Madogashe water project that is to be jointly  constructed by the county in collaboration with Kenya Red Cross and KeNHA will start soon. “My solemn promise to you and to all the communities residing in Garissa county is my administration will continue to be inclusive and equitable in the affairs of our devolved governance,” Korane said. He promised to have a meeting with religious leaders from the  community to support madrasa and Quranic schools. Two weeks ago, Kenya's envoy to Botswana Mohamed Shidiye, who comes from Rer Ali subclan, dropped his bid for Garissa governor in favour of former county boss Jama. According to political pundits, the disgruntled community members from the subclan  decided to back Korane after one of their own was left out. If their support will translate into votes then this will work in favour of Korane who will eat into the vote basket of Jama. The former governor is banking on consolidating all the votes from the clan to have a chance of winning.  (edited by Amol Awuor)