The national government has completed the establishment of 153 Constituency Industrial Development Centres aimed at empowering graduates from local TVET institutions. The Trade Principal Secretary Johnson Weru said the programme will cover all constituencies with the aim of creating opportunities for technical graduates to put their training to use. Speaking at Kihumbu-ini area in Gatanga where he provided equipment to the constituency’s CIDC, Weru said the centres enable the graduates to put their training into practice, with the government providing free space and equipment. The centres are part of the government’s policy to create employment opportunities. “This is a continuation of government’s efforts in engaging graduates of our TVET institutions,” he said. The centres are being equipped with the equipment required for metal and wood work, and the service industry that includes operation of car-washing facilities through the Micro and Small Entreprises Authority. “Gatanga has done very well in appreciating the Big Four Agenda call to be involved in industrialisation through small-scale, cottage level manufacturing,” he said. He added that the products produced in the centre are of standard quality and quantity and can be up-scaled to the local and regional market. Meanwhile, the PS sounded a warning to private developers who have grabbed public land meant for the centres, saying they will be dealt with legally. He said some of the ongoing centres are embroiled in disputes after it emerged that their land was grabbed and is now under private individuals, some of whom have sued the government. “The foundation of the initiative lies in the fact that the facility hosting this exercise is government-run and under the constitution," Weru said. "All government assets are under the authority of Treasury PS who has delegated that land to me as a PS.” Nationally, Weru said most CIDCs have been successfully registered and have managed to acquire title deeds through the National Land Commission. The Attorney General has however been instructed by the Cabinet to resolve the ongoing disputes. “It is a sad thing when someone says a parcel belongs to them when it is known that the land [belongs to the] public. But the law is the law. We are a government guided by the rule of law and the cases will be determined by the disputes resolution systems,” he added. The PS further said that the government has signed an economic partnership agreement with the UK that allows the two to engage in duty and quota free trade. This, he said, will give Kenyans an opportunity to market their products in the UK as long as they satisfy the required standards. “An avocado sells for about Sh300 in the UK but you have to prove that you have complied with their standards,” he said. Weru also called upon youths to apply for the Kenya Youth Employment Opportunities Project funds, saying successful applicants stand to get between Sh50,000 and Sh3 million to help them start income generating activities. The eighth cycle of funds issuance targets 7,000 youths who scored a D+ and above in their KCSE and failed to join tertiary institutions yet they have excellent business ideas.  (edited by Amol Awuor)