A man who died after a motorbike he was being carried on was hit by One Kenya Alliance motorcade in Machakos County has been buried. Patrick Njogu, 27, was buried at his parents’ rural home in Kiamani village of Katangi in Yatta, Machakos County on Saturday. Njogu died after the accident that occurred along Kyumbi-Machakos road at Kathome area, Machakos County on January 29. He is survived by a widow and two children including a 4-month-old baby and the other aged 13. The deceased was a bodaboda operator at Kyumbi trading centre and was a passenger of one of his colleagues when he met his death. They were among the operators who were escorting OKA leaders led by Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu’s Gideon Moi and their Narc Kenya counterpart Martha Karua when the accident occurred. Junior Mwaka, a bodaboda operator who was riding the motorcycle involved in the accident, sustained injures. He was admitted To the hospital and has been since discharged. He attended Njogu’s burial ceremony which attracted hundreds of people including local residents, relatives, provincial administrators, local political leaders, bodaboda operators alongside his friends from various parts of Machakos county. Both Njogu and Mwaka operated boda boda businesses at Kyumbi in the Mavoko sub-county where they lived with their families. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau who attended the burial said the motorbike Njogu was riding on was hit by Karua’s car leading to his death. Makau said he will ensure that the deceased’s together with his young family gets justice following the death. He said Mwaka too deserves justice through necessary compensations. “I want to say here that I witnessed the accident. The vehicle that hit the man belongs to Martha Karua. All records are at Machakos police station." He added: "The vehicle was insured and therefore Karua should follow up with their insurance company to make sure that the deceased’s family is compensated.” The MP said he has already established the insurance company that insured the car and will therefore make a follow up to see the family compensated. “I want to tell you that I will follow up on the incident for the two to be compensated. Karua sent Sh100,000 to support the family during the burial arrangements, the money will go to the family directly since we had catered for all the burial expenses,” Makau added. The legislator said Kalonzo donated Sh50, 000 to the family following their kin’s demise. Machakos sub-county police commander, Moss Ndiwa, earlier confirmed the incident. Ndiwa also confirmed that the motorcycle the deceased was riding on was hit by a vehicle in OKA’s motorcade that was moving from Kyumbi to a voter registration mobilisation exercise at Mulu Mutisya Grounds. He said Njogu died at Machakos Level 5 Hospital where he was rushed for medication. Edited by B. Marita