Governor Jackson Mandago says his scorecard in Uasin Gishu is evidence of success in 10 years, so residents should back him for senator in the August 9 polls. Mandago said more than 80 per cent of the projects he initiated have been completed and the remaining few will be done before the elections. The governor has been on an extensive tour of the county to commission some of the projects he initiated as he urged residents to support his bid to be the next senator so he can still contribute to development. Incumbent Senator Professor Margaret Kamar has not said if she will seek re-election but two weeks ago she was among leaders from  Rift Valley region who visited ODM leader Raila Odinga. Mandago said the projects initiated by the county during his regime are in water, agriculture, and healthcare sectors, among others. The governor has been touring subcounties in the last two weeks to inspect the projects. He toured Kapseret subcounty where he  inspected the Kapteldet Maternity wing, which is 99 per cent complete. The 20-bed wing is expected to serve the residents of Kapseret and neighboring areas. The Kapseret Subcounty Hospital also has a Kapteldon Maternity with a 40-bed capacity, fully equipped with modern equipment. The governor commissioned the drilling of water at Kapteldet dispensary. The water will benefit more than 500 households. Mandago said all the projects he initiated will be completed even as he thanked the residents of Kapseret for their continued support. Mandago said he would continued to deliver on his promise of upgrading the livelihoods of residents of Uasin Gishu in all sectors, including education, health and economic empowerment. The governor also extended his development tour to Moiben subccounty, Karuna Meibeki ward where he commissioned Kapkoros Dispensary and ECDE, Karandili ECDE, Karona Meibeki ward offices and later commissioned the Meikaro women's Sacco. “My agenda remains to ensure Uasin Gishu residents get access to quality county services in all sectors," Mandago said. Some of his legacy projects, including the Sh1.2 billon Ziwa Level 5 Hospital, are still in progress and Mandago said much of the work will be done before August. The race to succeed him has attracted more than eight aspirants through UDA and businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki who will be vying as an independent candidate. Those seeking the UDA nomination include outgoing envoys Julius Bitok who was serving in Pakistan and Sarah Serem who was serving in China. Others are politician Jonathan Bii, MCA for Ngenyilel David Singo’ei and Soy MP Caleb Kositany. In the race for the Senate seat, Mandago will face off with former Kass FM presenter Robert Kemei and Oliver Kipchumba Karori during the UDA primaries in April. (Edited by V. Graham)