Nyeri boda boda riders on Saturday benefited from a road safety forum courtesy of Inchcape Kenya and Private Bikers Association of Kenya. Seventy expert riders held a sensitisation group ride from Nairobi to Chaka in Nyeri, a ride that brought together BMW motorbike riders. The riders had a session in Nyeri town where they sharpened boda boda operators riding and precautionary skills on and off roads. There has been a steady increase in the number of boda boda riders in the country and subsequent accidents. A 2021 Economic Survey report by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, showed that the number of newly registered motorcycles increased by 16.2 per cent from 217,425 in 2019 to 252,601 in 2020. As a result, the number of riders involved in accidents rose by 58.4 per cent from 2,410 in 2019 to 3,818 in 2020. Motorcyclists recorded the highest increase in accident casualties among all road users with increase in those killed, seriously injured and slightly injured recorded at 56.7 per cent, 59.7 per cent and 57.0 per cent respectively. Inchcape Africa managing director Francis Agbonlahor said Inchcape Kenya has diversified its product portfolio including the BMW Motorrad (German word for motorcycle) which comprises of high end motorbikes. The company is, as such, focusing more on enhancing road safety among riders as part of its corporate and community outreach. “As we grow the BMW Motorrad product range in the Kenyan market, it is not lost on us that motorbikes have in the recent past greatly contributed to the spike in road accidents, and as a responsible corporate citizen, we endeavour to play a role in limiting the accidents through sensitising riders across the country on road safety” he said. Private Bikers Association of Kenya chairperson Sammy Kiumbe welcomed the initiative saying it will contribute in instilling discipline on roads among motorcyclists. “I have been a biker for years now and I am passionate about spreading the safety and watchfulness message to my fellow bikers across the country,” he said. “The number of riders on our roads is on a solid rise and observing road rules and minding fellow motorists is the only way we can make the most out of our riding experiences, whether one is riding for leisure or as a source of income.” He urged other motorists to accord bikers respect as they contribute to the economy and society significantly. He also urged bikers to reciprocate by respecting motorists and follow traffic rules. They spoke at Skuta in Nyeri town where they met the first batch of local boda boda riders. Inchcape Kenya will take the sensitisation drive to other parts of the country in the coming months. Inchcape PLC is a United Kingdom based multinational automotive distributor, retailer and a services company. It began its operation in Kenya in 2018 as the Jaguar and Land Rover dealer and later took over the BMW franchise including the BMW Motorrad. The chairman of bodaboda riders in Nyeri Laban Nderitu lauded the move by the two entities saying the sensitisation will help enhance the operators work and enhance safety on Kenya roads.   -Edited by SKanyara