Birds of prey declined by 86 per cent in four decades, a new study has shown. The study was published Tuesday in the journal Biological Conservation, scientists from Kenya, the UK, France and the USA, the first nationwide trends for Kenya’s raptors. Birds of prey keep the environment free of decaying carcasses, yet they have declined around the world. The losses were attributed to a sharp rise in human population growth that has resulted in a biologically impoverished landscape, less resilient to climatic changes, provides fewer ecosystem services and where attitudes toward wildlife have become increasingly intolerant. Other acute threats to Kenya’s raptors include electrocution and collision with energy infrastructure, deliberate and incidental poisoning and habitat degradation. Kenya’s diurnal raptors were first surveyed in the 1970s by identifying and counting individuals while driving along roads, both inside and outside protected areas. These roadside surveys were repeated multiple times during the 2000s. Of 22 species examined, 19 were less frequent during the recent period and the median rate of the decline was 70 per cent. Kenya's wildlife has been declining for decades due to rapid human population growth and its associated impacts on natural habitats. Predators and scavengers are particularly sensitive to anthropogenic pressures and their changing status has corresponding impacts on the ecosystem services they provide. Some of Kenya’s most iconic raptors are Secretarybird and Long-crested Eagle, both species declining by 94 per cent. Peter Njoroge, Head of Ornithology section at National Museums of Kenya, an organisation involved in the study said most birds of prey are long-lived and slow breeders, they can’t cope with the threats they face if urgent action to protect them is not initiated. Njoroge said the country might lose most of them despite their environmental benefits. Simon Thomsett, The Kenya Bird of Prey Trust director and a co-author of the study said the population of raptors today, does not resemble the numbers seen a half-century ago. “Those had already declined 25 years ago before we started noticing. Today they are a shadow of former years, they have declined. We must reverse this trend lest we lose more species,” he said. “Declines occurred among all vultures and large eagle species. They were especially pronounced among once-common small and medium-sized raptors like Augur Buzzard and Black-winged Kite. No species had increased.” Thomsett said even the most commonly seen are a fraction of what they were, a move that should alarm us. Based on projected declines over three generation lengths, 45 per cent of the species examined would qualify as nationally endangered or critically endangered. The findings show the importance of protected areas for Kenya's remaining populations as raptors declined less severely inside parks and reserves compared to unprotected lands. Phil Shaw of the University of St Andrews, and a co-lead author of the study, said the findings highlight the stark contrast between raptor trends in protected areas and unprotected land. “Outside of Kenya’s protected area network, it is evident populations of many raptors have almost collapsed, this cuts across species size, diet or ecological requirements,” Shawn said. “While most species have faired better within protected areas, several large raptor species have shown worrying declines, suggesting a need to bolster site protection and connectivity.” Shiv Kapila of The Kenya Bird of Prey Trust and a co-author of the study said the surveys show alarming declines of the majority of raptor species that occur throughout the region, are now confined to protected areas. Kapila said hazardous energy infrastructure within and around protected areas and rampant poisoning that continues unabated, are affecting our raptor communities and populations. Darcy Ogada of The Peregrine Fund and a co-lead author of the study said many of Kenya's raptors are at a breaking point. Ogada said after decades of habitat loss, more acute threats such as electrocution and persecution are rapidly taking a toll on already depleted populations. “Whether species such as Augur Buzzard, Bearded Vulture, Long-crested Eagle and Egyptian Vulture will continue to persist in the coming years and decades is in doubt, waiting another five to 10 years for some of these species could be too late,” Ogada said. Munir Virani, the Mohamed Bin Zayed Raptor Conservation Fund chief executive officer and a co-author said it is disheartening to see such a catastrophic decline in these apex predators. Virani said threats like raptor electrocutions can be easily mitigated and some excellent work is being done around the world to reduce raptor mortalities. The findings of the study demonstrate the importance of protected areas for Kenya's remaining raptor populations. It said the median encounter rate for vultures and large eagles had dropped by 23 per cent within protected areas and by 76 per cent in unprotected areas. Smaller species showed divergent trends to protected areas status, their median encounter rate increasing by 104 per cent within protected areas while declining by 85 per cent elsewhere. Based on projected declines over three generation lengths, 45 per cent of the species examined would qualify as nationally endangered or critically endangered. The study said Kenya's raptor declines could be reversed through enhanced management of protected areas, mitigation of specific threats and the implementation of species recovery plans; all requiring steadfast government commitment and close collaboration with conservation stakeholders. Edited by Kiilu Damaris