The Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya has announced it will support members who vie for political positions to improve health systems in the country. The society said this is the only way to ensure that the right laws are passed to provide quality medical care to Kenyans. Gladys King’ori, a member, said pharmacists have always wanted to join in discussions on health sector, but instead have been relegated to taking advisory positions. “We advise people on what to do on matters health, but there is only so much you can advise on and it is implemented,” she said. King’ori said members of the society have made a declaration that they will support each other and will vie for various political positions in the country. Already 16 members have declared their bid and have started their campaigns in various counties. King’ori added that the pharmaceutical field is infiltrated by non-pharmacists who run pharmacies, exposing patients to wrong dosages of drugs. She urged Kenyans to support them in order to access better health care. The pharmacists have signed a pledge, through the society, to better the health sector. Dr Moses Mwangi, also a member, said health care has been on a decline for the last several years despite the advances made in technology. Many Kenyans are unable to access drugs in majority of the counties and have to pay for laboratory and diagnostic services. He said those with serious diseases like cancer end up spending more money and selling property so as to afford these services. When they eventually die, they leave very poor households trapped in debt. Mwangi said, as pharmacists, they realised that some of the laws made in the National Assembly and the Senate do not help in the advancement of health services as many of the legislators do not understand health matters. “That is why we have decided that we will no longer sit on the sidelines,” he said. Mwangi added that he was privileged to be part of the team that came up with Kenya Medical Supplies Authority Act that provided that the CEO must be a pharmacist, the same way a headteacher in a school must be a teacher. But he said that miscellaneous amendments were sneaked into the Act by self-seeking political leaders, which he said has caused the authority to experience management issues. “We want to be in the National Assembly, Senate and county governments to ensure the right health care personnel leads the right organisations so that the health agenda can move forward.” PSK, he said, will mobilise all pharmacists in the country to support members in their political bids and will vie through their desired parties. The pharmacists said the Universal Health Coverage cannot be achieved without proper management of drugs. They have appealed to Kenyans to support them. Mwangi will be vying for Murang'a governor for the third time. The two spoke at Nyati Catholic Church in Maragua, Murang'a, during a free medical camp.  (edited by Amol Awuor)