Deputy President William Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza brigade stormed Nakuru County again on Friday as they campaigned for their team ahead of the August poll. While touring Kuresoi South, Nakuru County, a teenager moved the crowd with her poem: My dear President to be. Doreen Cheptoo, alias Chibudi Chibude, stole the stage, capturing the attention of the crowd as she encouraged the DP with her captivating poem. These are some lines in her poem; May God give you the strength and capacity to overcome your enemy They kill your name privately but God is about to honour your name publicly It's better to have an enemy who honestly says they hate you than to have a friend who’s putting you down secretly Dr Samoei Ruto, my President to arise and shine for the glory of the Lord has risen upon you Dr Samoei Ruto, my prayer and wish that you climb to the top so that they glorify the Lord you’ve been serving Arise and shine for the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. During the tour, the DP was accompanied by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Nakuru senator Susan Kihika, among other leaders. The Kenya Kwanza team used the opportunity to comment on the remarks that were made by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege in Vihiga County on Thursday during the Azimio rally. The MP had claimed that the current administration rigged the 2017 elections. Ruto said that the accusations by Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege are a scheme by Azimio to orchestrate violence, saying, "we will not accept that." "Kuna mama moja wa Azimio alisema mimi an Uhuru tuliiba Kura 2017. Nataka Niwaulize nyinyi watu wa Nakuru, kuna kura ya mtu mliiba? Si mlitupigia kura? Hakuna kura ya mtu tuliiba. Watu wa Azimio waache kutisha watu na maneno ya kuiba kura. Mimi ndo nilisimamia maneno ya kura. Hakuna kura ata moja ya mtu Uhuru aliiba," he said. Loosely translated as, "There is one woman (Sabina Chege) from Azimio who said that Uhuru and I stole votes in 2017. I want to ask you the people of Nakuru, were your votes stolen? Did you not vote for us? We did not steal anyone's votes. The people of Azimio should stop threatening people with accusations of stealing votes. I was in charge of the election and Uhuru did not steal anyone's votes," Ruto said.