Five senior officials who resigned last week to venture into politics are eyeing the governor and MP positions in this year’s election. Among senior officers who resigned is deputy county secretary Everlyne Ikwii and four chief officers. Ikwii resigned on February 9 and has declared interest in the Busia Woman Representative position currently held by Florence Mutua. Mutua is vying for governor after serving as Woman Rep for two terms starting in 2013. Other candidates in the grueling race to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong include Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, former Agricultural Finance Corporation managing director Lucas Meso and Nambale MP John Bunyasi. Ikwii was joined in the resignation queue by Dan Mogoria, who was the chief officer Education and Vocational Training. He is the only contestant from Teso region vying for governor. Mogoria, before joining the county government in 2017, worked at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in charge of Matayos subcounty. He had resigned from his IEBC position to vie for Teso North MP seat, which he lost. Another chief officer who quit is Isaac Omeri (Health and Sanitation), who has expressed interest in succeeding Nambale MP John Bunyasi. Lydia Nabwire (ICT and Communication) will vie for Woman Representative while Stephen Nasiagi (Infrastructure) will challenge Casper Ajuma for the Bunyala South ward seat. Five other staff members also resigned to try their luck in the political field. The director of protocol and liaison Hillary Mainga will try to elbow out John Oganga, who is presently the Marachi West MCA. Mainga unsuccessfully contested for senator in 2017. Charles Atelu, who was the roads inspector, will strive to win the Amukura Central seat currently held by Moses Ouma. Kenneth Ichasi who was deputy liaison officer in the governor's office will try to reclaim the Malaba North ward seat which he held in the first assembly between 2013 and 2017 before losing it to Patrick Omanyala. “My record as the area MCA spoke for itself. I want to reclaim my seat to enable me complete some projects I initiated in the ward, which were abandoned by my successor,” he said. Simon Oruchum, a protocol officer, will contest for the highly competitive Malaba Central ward seat currently held by Bernard Papa. Another protocol officer, Godfrey Odongo, will face off with Mwajuma Toloi for the Nambale Township ward seat. Ikwii, Omeri, Imwene and Oruchum attended Saturday’s Azimio La Umoja rally in Malaba and declared their support for ODM leader Raila Odinga. They assured their respective constituents of their support in case they win the elections. Edited by Henry Makori