The annual Nyeri farmers’ field day has resumed after a two-year break following the Covid-19 pandemic. The event attracts more than 200 exhibitors, and 50,000 farmers and prospective farmers yearly. Farmers come from as far as Nyanza, Coast, Eastern and Nairobi. The event was held on Friday 25 and Saturday 26 February at the Wambugu Agricultural Training Centre in Nyeri town. Samuel Kimani, the chairman of the Wambugu ATC Stakeholders Forum, said Friday that traditionally the event is held in July but they decided to hold it in February as farmers and stakeholders were yearning for the event after the long break. “Of course our expectation was to have about 100 exhibitors and we are happy that we exceeded the expectation,” he said. Kimani said in previous exhibitions, they had no exhibitors in agriculture mechanisation but this year, three companies participated. Other new exhibitors include emerging companies helping farmers propagate seeds. In the plan, instead of farmers raising seedlings in nursery seedbeds, they buy the seeds and give them to a plant raiser who then delivers the seedlings to the farmer for planting. He said companies have come up with new seeds and farm inputs that have enabled farmers to handle new challenges in farming. Nyeri Agriculture executive James Wachihi said the annual event has enabled farmers in the county to improve on production. He said the event provides a platform for farmers to meet experts who exhibit technological innovations and advise on good farming practices. “These are some of the things that will help us move our farming activities to the next level. Production in the country has been reducing over the years because farmers use the wrong seeds and farm inputs,” Wachihi said. He said cooperation between the government and private sectors, such as various seeds and agrochemical companies, has helped change things in Nyeri by educating farmers on proper farming practices. He said Irish potato farming has improved over the last five years and production has increased from between four and five tonnes per acres to eight and nine tonnes. “According to data in our possession, milk production has also increased from seven litres to 11 litres per cow,” he said. He expressed hope that holding more of such farmers field days will boost farming further in Nyeri county, whose mainstay is agriculture. Edited by A.N