Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka will vie for Bungoma governor on Ford Kenya ticket, Kabuchai MP Majimbo Kalasinga has said. Lusaka has however not declared the political party he will use to recapture the seat which he lost in 2017 to Governor Wycliffe Wangamati. But Lusaka has been largely associating with Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who has declared him the Ford Kenya candidate. Wetang'ula has been campaigning for him. “Those circulating propaganda on social media platforms that Lusaka will not vie for the governor's seat on Ford Kenya should get this clearly. He will beat Governor Wycliffe Wangamati,” Kalasinga said on Sulwe FM. Earlier in the month, Lusaka said he is firmly in the Bungoma governor's race. He said he had not bolted out due to pressure from some quarters as claimed by his opponents. Lusaka assured his supporters that nothing would stop him from vying for the Bungoma governor's seat. "I'm aware that out of desperation, our opponents have come up with all manner of propaganda, including suggestions that I will not run," he said. Lusaka said some people were peddling rumours that he would be contesting the senator's seat. "Others are saying that I will run as a senator. Treat all that as rubbish. I'm in the race to be governor of Bungoma, period," he said. He appealed to his supporters to ignore the rest and focus on the goal. Lusaka asked his opponents to stop panicking but prepare to face him on the ballot. Aside from Lusaka, the Bungoma governor seat has attracted several other aspirants including Zacharia Barasa, Prof Peter Khakina, former CAK boss Francis Wangusi and Wangamati. Kalasinga also said he will seek to defend his seat on Ford Kenya party.  Former Nakuru deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi is also seeking the Ford Kenya ticket for Kabuchai MP seat. “I want to tell my good friend Wanyonyi that the Ford Kenya party ticket is mine. I'm not saying that because I have a ticket, but I'm saying this owing to my track record that I have set in the few months I have been in Parliament,” he said. Kalasinga said that for the few months he has been MP, he ensured needy students from Kabuchai constituency got bursaries. He said the NG-CDF management formed teams in every location to ensure deserving applicants benefit. Edited by A.N