The Kenya Cup final will now be played on March 12. The final had been slated for a week earlier but the extra weekend has been set aside for previously postponed fixtures. This Saturday, Nondies make the long trip to Kakamega to face Kabras Sugar. The match was initially scheduled for early last month but was postponed after Nondies failed to conduct Covid-19 tests within their ranks. Champions KCB face Mwamba at RFUEA on the same day after their match slated for December was postponed due to positive Covid-19 cases in both teams. Kabras top the log with 35 points with Nakuru-based outfit  Menengai Oilers second on 33 points as champions KCB sit third on 31 points with Strathmore placed fourth, the final playoff position, on 30 points. The top four teams will qualify for the playoffs unlike in the last three seasons, where the top six teams were involved. The semifinals will now be played on March 5. The race to avoid relegation pits five clubs including fifth-placed Quins, (15 points), Mwamba, Blak Blad, Masinde Muliro University (joint sixth with 14 points), Homeboyz and Nakuru (joint ninth with 11 points), Impala (11th with 10 points) as well as Nondies, who sit bottom of the table with seven points. Two teams will be relegated to the Championship, with the top two teams in the second tier getting promotion. Nakuru coach Felix Oloo said the race for survival will be intense for the next fortnight with seven clubs aiming to avoid the drop. Oloo's charges have come from behind twice to win their recent fixtures. They overturned a 15-5 deficit to stun Impala 29-27 and repeated the same feat on Saturday, coming from 22-6 down to stun Nondies 23-22. Oloo believes the side have the momentum ahead of two season-defining fixtures against Quins and cross-town rivals Oilers. "We have one week to recharge our batteries. The boys have a never-say-die spirit and that will help in our quest for survival. The players have shown great character in the last one month and I am confident we will survive,” said Oloo.