A South Sudanese man linked to fraud in Kenya is also wanted in Uganda and Australia, prosecutor Christine Torome told a Kibera court on Monday. This emerged when Toni Taban Suliman was charged alongside Johannes Ochieng Bolo before Kibera senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki on Monday. According to the charge sheet, the two are accused of conspiring to commit felony by stealing alcoholic drinks from Jay wines on diverse dates between February 9 and 13 in Nairobi. Suliman was also charged with making a chequebook valued at Sh1,000 and belonging to Trackem Investments. The two were also charged with stealing the NCBA bank chequebook. They also faced charges of issuing fake cheques, contrary to the Penal Code. They allegedly issued a Sh413,00 fake cheque. Suliman was also charged with obtaining Sh210,000 from Sarova Stanley after he received full boarded services, which he reportedly failed to pay. He also face a charge of resisting arrest. Through their lawyer, Elkana Mogaka, the accused denied the charges. The prosecution heard that Suliman was a foreigner but he had not given any identification documents. He arrived in Kenya using an Australian passport, the court heard. “The accused persons are wanted at Kileleshwa police station, Mombasa and Nyali police station over a criminal offence,” the prosecution told the court. But Mogaka said the claims were unjustified, saying there were no documents from Interpol showing the suspect was wanted for other crimes. He told the court that Suliman's passport was wanted in court and he is diabetic. He produced a medical form from The Nairobi Hospital. Mwaniki directed the matter be mentioned on Tuesday for bond ruling and more directions. During the court proceedings, chief magistrate Mutuku learnt that suspect had another case with a warrant of arrest against him. In this case, he was accused of failing to pay Sankara Hotel Sh190,000 bill. “You asked for time to pay the bill but you never came back to court to explain whether you paid,” the magistrate said. Suliman said he had paid the bill and his lawyer had informed him there was no need to come back to court. State prosecutor Anderson Gikunda said the bill had been paid and asked the court for one more day to avail Sankara Hotel representative. Edited by Kiilu Damaris