No security operation has started yet in Baringo five days after Interior CS Fred Matiang’I issued orders for ruthless ground and air assault on bandits. Matiang'i landed in Nakuru last Friday and announced a major two-week operation to flush out the bandits along the porous borders of Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties. “The massive ground and aerial assaults shall ruthlessly deal with the armed bandits and it should start immediately on Saturday, February 5,” the CS said. Since December, at least seven people, including a police officer, have been killed, hundreds of livestock stolen and thousands of people displaced in parts of Baringo and the Kerio Valley since December. “We haven’t had peace since last Christmas. We we lost our loved ones and animals yet the government hasn't taken any bold step to respond to the killings,” Bartabwa resident David Lomul said. On Tuesday, tension was still high and no major operation has been seen on the ground, while thousands of people including children have fled their homes. A number of unarmed victims fearing for their lives are staying with neighbours while others put up in nearby schools and temporary makeshift camps for internally displaced people. Even schools, such as Sinoni Primary in Baringo South, are surrounded by bandits hiding in bushes, so residents fear to go look for water, lest they be killed. Sometimes the bandits even raid the school and attack displaced people at night, but no cattle are stolen. On Sunday, one of the two armoured personnel carriers entering Baringo was involved in an accident owing to the rough hilly terrain. It rolled several times.. Two officers who sustained minor injuries were rushed to a nearby health facility and discharged. “We even saw some helicopters hovering but by today, Tuesday, no operation has taken place unless planning  logistics is still taking place,” Baringo South resident Wycliffe Kimarara said. Kimarara said they are longing for the operation to start quickly so the displaced people can go back to their homes and school children can return to class. “Now our people camping at Sinoni Primary School lack foodstuffs, clothing, blankets and drugs. They are hoping the government will resettle them urgently," he said. Bandits have forced people, including the school going children, to flee Lawaiwe, Kapndasum, Kapkechir, Kasiela, Arabal, Chemorongion, Katbara, Sinoni, Aburi, Tuiyotich and Karne in Baringo South. A similar situation is reported in Baringo North where thousands of residents  have fled Chepkesin, Kapturo, Kagir, Yatya, Tuluk and Chemoe. But no operation has started. The situation of more than 2,000 children is unknown as their schools are closed due to runway banditry. “We really trust the government and we don’t want any jokes on this, what we are only pray is the state to treat this deadly insecurity issue with the seriousness it deserves,” resident Richard Chepchomei said. He said, “If the government finds it difficult, then it should allow people to own guns so they can protect themselves against the aggressors,” he said. The displaced bandit victims in Baringo  haven't been treated as well as victims in Laikipia last year. By Tuesday, no single APC  or special forces had landed in Baringo North. Security sources hinted that police on regular patrols would manage the operation to flush out bandis. “We are only waiting for an APC to arrive, otherwise we have enough officers on the ground who will manage the operation to flush out the bandits,” a senior police officer said Asked whether Matiang'i's promised two-week operation is long enough to conduct a conclusive operation, a security officer said they will have at least done something commendable. “Later we shall make some recommendation to our bosses depending on the achievements then and the status of the stuation," he officer said. (Edited by V. Graham)