Kenya Railway Golf Club’s Samuel Mwaura carded a round of 37 points on the opening event of the 2022 NCBA Golf Series at his home club on Saturday to claim the win in the division one category. Playing off handicap eight, Mwaura’s effort was enough to fend off the challenge by Walter Onyino who closed his round with a similar haul of points, albeit playing off handicap seven. Division One players are categorized as golfers who rank between handicaps zero and nine. Speaking after his round, Mwaura said: “This event was unmissable. So, I came and played and holed seven pars, three birdies, and a few bogeys and ended up winning division one. I emerged the winner and hope to travel to the Fan Court Golf Estate in South Africa.” In the second division, featuring golfers with handicaps 10-18, Sam Onyambu, playing off handicap 17, carded a round of 39 points to emerge top. He beat Ronnie Maina, playing off handicap 16, who ended his round with a haul of 37 points. In the third division (featuring golfers with handicaps 19 and more), Onyango Obiero(28), carded a total of 39 points to seal the win ahead of Dr. Gachuno  (25) who managed 36 points. Among the lady golfers, Night Doris, playing off handicap 24, carded a round of 37 points to emerge, winner, while NCBA Group’s Rahab Wanjiru (H34), was the staff winner with 32 points. In the nines, James Karuga and Susan Koinange took top honours in the first and second nine with 20 points apiece. In the longest drive contest, Mike Mbugua and Jane Ndirangu were the day’s winners in the men’s and ladies’ categories, while George Kiai won the nearest to the pin contest. The Kenya Railway leg was the series opener to the NCBA Golf Series’ sophomore season, which featured 18 legs and will have an expanded schedule covering Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania. Like the inaugural edition last year, the series will include three junior golf tournaments in partnership with U.S. Kids Golf. The Series will culminate in a Grand Finale tournament where the top four winners will enjoy a fully sponsored golf tour at The Fan Court Golf Estate in South Africa.