A police officer shot and killed his colleague before injuring his senior at a police camp in Meru county. Constable Abel Chumba of Kaongo Kampio General Service Unit camp in Meru went into hiding after the Tuesday night incident. He was arrested on Wednesday morning and officials said they intend to charge him with murder. His G3 rifle was also recovered from him. He had ran away with his rifle loaded with at least 17 bullets. Chumba is accused of fatally shooting constable Pontianas Ikumoli, 22, in the head. The officer also shot and seriously injured the in-charge of camp, inspector Michael Ngugi, before he fled. Police authorities said they had not established the motive behind the 9pm incident. Eastern police boss Rono Bunei said they will want to hear from him on what triggered the shooting. The injured officer was rushed to a local hospital. He was injured in the left hand but is in stable condition. Police who visited the scene said they collected 13 spent cartridges. This is the latest incident involving police officers who are increasingly either killing their colleagues, loved ones or dying by suicide. Authorities are concerned with the cases and have ordered commanders to always pay attention on their juniors’ state in general. On Sunday, February 19 a police officer shot and killed his wife before he turned gun on himself in a suspected murder - suicide incident in Migori town. Constable Anthony Mwangi Njuguna, 29, shot and killed his wife Maureen Moraa Kiriago, 27 in their house. About 17 spent cartridges were recovered from the house after police visited the scene. Neighbours told police the two had quarreled before they heard gunshots from the house. Njuguna had booked off duty at the report office at 11.30pm and proceeded to his house without handing over his rifle to the armoury. The weapon was found next to his body with 13 bullets. Tens of police officers have in the past year been killed and injured in similar circumstances, where officers use their issued guns to target victims before killing themselves. Officials said they are making efforts to address the worrying trend. There is also a deliberate drive to destigmatise mental illness and stress and to actively reach out to potential cases. Such dramas are common in the service and most of them have been blamed on stress and trauma. As part of efforts to address the menace, police authorities have rolled out a counseling programme targeting the officers. The National Police Service Commission established a counseling unit, which will, evaluate, design and lead an outreach programme to deal with mental health problems and substance abuse. In 2019, Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai launched Muamko Mpya-Healing the Uniform Initiative — to give psychological support to officers. He said police officers are often exposed to trauma that creates deep emotional scars. “The ultimate goal of the initiative is to provide officers with knowledge, tools and a framework, to assist them to support each other while handling traumatic situations,” Mutyambai said. He said they encounter most of these situations on both personal and professional levels. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)