Leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto have sustained their onslaught against the President, accusing him of taking sides in the August polls and branding ODM leader Raila Odinga a state project. Bura MP Ali Wario said while the President remains his friend, having stood by him since he joined politics, he would not hesitate to criticise him when he makes ‘wrong’ moves. The MP spoke on Monday in Bura town when he was endorsed by his Orma community to run for Tana River governor. The endorsement is a big win for Wario against Interior CAS and former governor Hussein Dado. The CAS was, however, also endorsed in a separate function by a section of Orma elders. “The President is supposed to be a symbol of national unity. He is supposed to unite Kenyans regardless of their creed," Wario said. He said as Uhuru prepares to hand over power, he cannot afford to associate with teams, a  given political party or take a certain direction ignoring the bigger population of the people of Kenya. “My message to the President is one and simple: You are the Head of State, carry all of us on board. Don't take a political side. The contrary will see you leave the worst legacy in this country," Wario said. The Matededha Orma council of elders chairman Omar Wario who announced Wario as the community's choice said the process was transparent, free and fair. He urged those not picked to come back to the fold and support the endorsed candidate for the sake of the community’s unity. “I want to emphasise that there are no losers and winners in this process. What we are looking at is the community’s unity, which is paramount. United we stand divided we fall,” the chairman said. In his acceptance speech, Wario who has served as Bura MP for three terms said that his transition to the governor's seat is aimed at serving an even bigger population of Tana River residents. “I accept this endorsement with a full and grateful heart and with only one obligation; that is providing good leadership to our community and the people of Tana River. "I know the task ahead is not a walk in the park. It requires a lot of commitment and dedication, not just from me but from every single member of our community,” the MP said. The legislator critisised the current leadership for doing little to uplift the living standards of residents. "We are faced with a myriad of challenges from healthcare and infrastructure, which boils down to poor leadership and management. This is what I am looking forward to correct,” he said. Wario promised to do all it takes to give people that dream leadership that they yearn for. “I have the competence and courage to make development and prosperity a reality. Without doubt, I take this as a challenge but also as an opportunity to start a new line of servant leadership,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)