One of the five Machakos cattle theft suspects has been jailed for five years after he pleaded guilty to both offences levelled against him alongside his accomplices. The first accused, Ngenoi Seketo Hilalu, was sentenced to five years without an option of a fine after he pleaded guilty of stock theft and an alternative charge of handling stolen goods. The five accused persons who had been previously taken to court on January 18 under miscellaneous application appeared before Principal Magistrate Bernard Kasavuli for plea taking at Mavoko Law Courts on Tuesday. Hilalu, alongside Peter Njenga, David Kachora, George Nganga and Mutende Selalo were jointly charged with stock theft and handling stolen goods. Kasavuli ordered Hilalu jailed for five years and granted him 14 days for a right of appeal. Hilalu asked for leniency stating that though he committed the offence, he was ready to reform. All the suspects took pleas during the court session that was conducted virtually. They took the plea from Athi River police station where they had been detained for the last 14 days. The charge sheet seen by the Star read that; "Ngeneo Hilalu, Peter Njenga alias Sonko, David Kachora, George Ng’ang’a and Mutende Selalo on the night of 16th and 17th November 2021 at Portland area of Athi River in Machakos County jointly with others not before court stole 15 herds of cattle worth Sh900,000, property of Ndelu Olesasine ". An alternative charge sheet read that Peter Muia and David Kachora on November 17, 2021, at Classic Slaughterhouse in Nyandia area, Naivasha within Nakuru County otherwise in the course of stealing dishonestly resolved, detained and participated in the disposal of 15 cattle knowingly or having heard that they had been stolen. The other four persons pleaded not guilty to both the offences, counts one and two. The court directed that they be remanded at Kitengela G.K prison pending a hearing slated for April 13, 2022. The case will be mentioned on February 16. The prosecution stated that April 13, was the earliest date for the hearing as per the court’s diary. Kasavuli said the four suspects be remanded at the prison pending hearing and determination of the case. They were all denied bond/cash bail since they have pending cases of similar nature in other courts in various counties including Machakos and Kajiado Counties. Athi River DCI said they had interrogated ten people and of them, five have been treated as state witnesses. “Investigations to unravel any other person who participated in one way or another in omission or commission of the offence are ongoing. The cartels have been dismantled and small pockets who are still remaining shall be pursued and arrested to face the full force of the law,” the DCI sleuth told the Star.