Promising attacking midfielder Mohammed Bajaber aka Hamudi, 18, has joined Simba wa Nairobi on loan from Star Field Academy for the second leg of the 2021/22 season. The charismatic Bajaber has been training with City Stars for the past six weeks and received the nod from the technical bench leading to his move. “Bajaber came to us for training a few weeks back and it never took long for his unique qualities to come to light,” said head coach Nicholas Muyoti. "Though young, he has already shown good professionalism and character as evidenced by how he has already blended in well with the rest of the squad. We now expect him to translate what we have seen on the pitch to the premier league platform." Team coordinator Samson Otieno said: “Our technical bench made the office aware of the player and he comes in highly recommended. He now has the chance to showcase what he has at the big stage. We welcome him to the Nairobi City Stars family.” Robert Muthomi, a Director at Star Field Elite Academy, added: “Mohamed has worked hard to get here and we are confident that he will be an asset to City Stars. The fact that he gets to join a team that is looking like genuine title contenders this season says a lot about his abilities.” Hamudi follows in the footsteps of his father Omar Ali Bajaber, who featured for coastal-based Black Panther in the 1979 Football Kenya League. At the same time, midfielder Elvis Noor Ojiambo is back to training after missing six games due to injury. The defensive/creative midfielder has just shaken off an ankle knock and is now looking to work his way back to the starting 11. “It’s been challenging sitting out games. But with an injury, there is nothing much you can do. I am now fully fit and training well with the rest of the squad. My objective is to work harder and become available for upcoming matches,” said Ojiambo. The former Kibera Black Stars player made his top-flight debut with promoted City Stars last season where he went on to clock 1,012 minutes after featuring in 25 matches. He started in 12 games. Ojiambo, the elder sibling of teenage sensation Timothy Noor Ouma, has made the squad seven times.