Shining Hope for Communities (Shofco) has rolled out a two-week training program for Mombasa residents as it launches its Sacco in the region. The training session, which started on Wednesday, February 2, will be held in Changamwe, Likoni, Bangladesh, Mishomoroni and Maweni. “Our Shofco Sacco program has been very successful in Nairobi, and we have brought it to Mombasa after residents requested us to do so. Our training team will be here to train those who intend to save money on financial literacy,” ShofcoSacco Deputy Manager Victor Odede said. The training team will target Shofco Urban Network (SUN) members in the region. Shofco currently has over 300,000 SUN members in Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa counties, and the organization will seek to reach to 10,000 of them to join the Sacco. “Shofco Sacco has experienced tremendous growth for the past five years. It will be having a strong footprint among the underprivileged in the informal settlements in the coast region,” Victor added. He revealed that in the next five to 10 years, as they expand to all major slums in the country, they seek to have a fully automated Sacco where members will do everything online. “The Sacco will be giving them an opportunity to access affordable loans to develop and improve their economic and social status,” he said. With increased automation, he added, they expect to increase their staff capacity to offer more personalised financial services to their members. “We are currently focusing on diversifying our services towards ensuring that members can access every financial service that they need from their Sacco and take advantage of the synergy of their numbers to gain bargaining power for their benefit,” he said. The Sacco has over 1,500 members in Nairobi who have saved up to Sh150 million. They save as low as Sh500 after paying the Sh500 registration fee. “We started the Sacco because it was becoming a big challenge for slum residents to access bank loans. Those who have joined and saved money have borrowed loans and started their businesses. Some have used the money to take their children to school,” founder and Shofco CEO Kennedy Odede said. Odede had promised coastal residents last year that the organization would launch Sacco in the region. “We now have Shofco Sacco in Mombasa, and we are grateful to Odede because he has delivered on his promise,” Amira Hassan, one of those who attended the Sacco training in Changamwe, said.