Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has commenced distribution of the second phase of bursary funds to needy students. The first phase saw Sh125.6 million released in October last year for secondary, universities and tertiary institution students. Speaking at Baricho area during the distribution of cheques worth  Sh9.2 million for student in Mukure ward, Waiguru said the bursaries are aimed at empowering students from poor backgrounds to access education. She said about 42,527 students who were identified following a vetting process by the Ward Bursary Committee will benefit. In total, the bursary will benefit 32,397 secondary school students, university (5,388) and tertiary institutions(4,742). “Students in secondary schools will receive Sh77.2 million, those in tertiary institutions Sh15.7 million while university students will get Sh20.7 million,” she said. “We remain committed to supporting the education of our children, the improvement of academic performance in Kirinyaga and ultimately the lives of the county youth,” she added. The governor urge school management teams in the county to consider the plight of needy students and not to send them away because of school fees. This year’s disbursement is the largest compared to previous years where slightly above Sh200 million was disbursed. Agnes Wairimu, a single mother to a Form 2 student at Getuya secondary school, said the release of the funds “came at the right time.” “At least I have somewhere to start. My son applied for the bursaries and he has received the funding, I was wondering where I will get money to pay for his school fees,” Wairimu said. At the same time, the governor has also distributed Early Childhood Development and Education teaching and learning materials to all the 198 public schools in the county. The materials includes teaching material (for teachers) among them CBC curriculum designs books for PP1 and PP2, teachers guide books and counter books for preparations of lessons for the 422 ECDE teachers in the county. Others include learning materials for some 18,643 pupils enrolled in the centres across the county. Currently, the county has 10,518 boys and 8,125 girls enrolled in ECDE centres. (Edited by Tabnacha O)