Nairobi City Stars attacking midfielder Timothy Babu Ouma has warned that this is their season. “So far, the season is progressing very well for City Stars. We have achieved quite a bit and there is more to come. This is our season,” added the teen sensation,”  said Ouma. With half the games played in the 34-game season, City Stars sit second in the 18-team log with 31 points— three off log leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. Club placing aside, Ouma is on a perfect run individually with four goals and as many assists. He scored his debut premier league goal in the season opener against Sofapaka in Wundanyi and went on to score once in each of the subsequent games against promoted Kenya Police and Wazito. His fourth arrived in the 15th match away to Homeboyz at Bukhungu. His opening goal for Simba Wa Nairobi set the tone for a great comeback as the game eventually ended 4-4. Babu has featured in all 17 games played so far starting in 15 of them. At the same time, Ezekiel Odera has equaled former club stalwart Jimmy Bageya on 29 goals tally. Club legend Arthur Museve, now a trainer with the club is on 31 goals— one ahead of immediate former Simba Wa Nairobi striker Ebrima Sanneh. Legends Justus Basweti and Francis Thairu are the only two players to have scored over 34 goals each at City Stars. “I want to score goals that help the club achieve their target but ultimately, I wish to be the record goal scorer by the close of the season,” added Odera. In his first season at City Stars in 2016, Odera top-scored with four premier league goals and added one more in the domestic cup. He went on to top-score for the club with 11 goals the next season in the National Super League. After that season, he took up other challenges only to return to City Stars at the onset of 2020, where he scored three league goals in the NSL— contributing to the clubs’ promotion at the close of the coronavirus-halted 2019/20 season. In the 2020/21 Premier League season, Odera scored four league goals and one in the domestic cup and has since added another five league goals in the current 2021/22 Premier league campaign that is halfway through.