Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has called out Deputy President William Ruto for branding ODM party leader Raila Odinga a state project. Nassir, who on Saturday led a brigade of Mombasa MPs for an Azimio la Umoja meeting at the Mvita Primary School grounds, said Raila is the people's project. The Mvita meeting, which was organised to demonstrate a show of might that Mombasa is still an ODM zone, ran parallel with the Kenya Kwanza movement rally at the Tononoka grounds. The Kenya Kwanza meeting was led by DP Ruto, Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. "We have an intruder in Mombasa today, he (Ruto) has been saying Raila is a state project, I want them to know here today that Raila is the people's project," Nassir said. He threw barbs at the DP calling him a coward when Raila was agitating for multiparty in the country. "When Raila was being taken into detention, Ruto was part of those who were scrambling for government tenders and projects. Where was he when Raila was fighting for the democratic space we enjoy today?" posed Nassir. The MP also drummed up support for Raila's presidential bid assuring him that Mombasa is still an ODM zone. Nassir further warned Mombasa residents not to be deceived by what he termed as empty and fake promises from their opponents. "When we were fighting against the transfer of port services from Mombasa to Naivasha, he was among those who said we had not gone to school. I urge you Mombasa people to be weary of the promises they give you," he said. Nassir also asked Ruto to keep Raila's name out of his mouth saying they at Azimio la Umoja believed in peaceful campaigning and selling their agenda to the people instead of name calling. His sentiments were echoed by Likoni MP Mishi Mboko who said time has come for Kenya to choose a leader who is going to unite citizens and revive the economy. Mboko hailed Raila's agenda of giving Sh6,000 monthly cash transfer to vulnerable families in the country, adding that the Babacare health scheme is going to provide healthcare services to millions of poor Kenyans. "Baba (Odinga) is the people's project, he will stand with Kenyans. He is the father of devolution and a development champion in all sectors in the country," Mboko said. She also took a swipe at Ruto for calling Raila a state project. "Stop calling Baba a project, he began politics when you were still a toddler. The freedom of speech we are enjoying today is courtesy of Raila," she said. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib  called on the youth and women who are yet to register as voters to turnout in large numbers and do so to enable them realise the dream of electing Raila as the fifth president of Kenya. Senator Mohammed Faki said Mombasa will not subscribe to the wheelbarrow politics. "We will not accept your wheelbarrow politics as Mombasa people, Mombasa shall and will always remain an ODM zone," Faki said.    -Edited by SKanyara