Azimio la Umoja Movement regional headquarter in Nyanza has been launched in Kisumu to serve as a one-stop shop where people affairs under the umbrella will be addressed. The event was presided over by Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o accompanied by ODM party National Treasurer Timothy Bosire among other leaders from the county. According to Nyong'o, the events of the movement within the region will be coordinated from the office. He noted that there is also an office for their chairman and also Presidential candidate Raila Odinga within the building. "The office contains our chairman's office where he can meet the regional leaders to save him time from going place to place to meet them," Nyongo said. Nyong'o further stated that the office will allow for the consolidation of resources to maximize the effectiveness of the movement ahead of the August 9 polls. "We now have the Azimio regional headquarters to maximize on the few resources that we have". Nyong’o said Azimio regional leaders can also visit the office. They include Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, and Nyamira counties. The office was opened as they prepared to attend the Kisumu county ODM delegates conference which brought together delegates, elected and nominated leaders including aspirants for various posts. Bosire however noted that he was happy to be associated with the opening of the facility. He stated that this was unifying the region as they endevour to plan programs for the development and implementation of people's affairs from the area. "Am happy for the unity that they have shown and desire to work together to exploit resources in the region". Bosire however, urged electorates from regions perceived to be ODM strongholds to vote for the party candidate to strengthen the political outfit. "Every one of us should strengthen our parties accordingly. I see the situation whereby as the 5th President in and from this region, ODM should do their best to have every level of election, ODM leaders so that he is able to move out there  stronger than before".