After three straight losses in the National Super League, former giants Shabana have appointed Sammy Okoth as the new coach and signed seven players. Okoth takes over from Robert Ojienda who resigned three weeks ago and he is reportedly headed to APS Bomet. Okoth was unveiled yesterday by the club's chairman, Nyandoro Kambat at a Kisii hotel and introduced to players. Kevin Momanyi who was an interim coach will remain assistant coach. The new players include defender Brian Magare, Ibrahim Ochieng from Kisumu All-Stars, Clinton Bulimo (Muhoroni Youth), Patrick Ochieng (Kisumu All-Stars), midfielders  Ibrahim Ochieng (Kisumu All-Stars), Emmanuel Onyancha (Dandora Love), Laktano Kiprotich (Migori Youth), and goalkeeper Jeremiah Wangila (Transfoc). Magare, a utility defender returns to the club six months after leaving. Kambi said Okoth is an experienced coach who previously coached the Sher Karuturi, Agro Chemicals, Zoo Kericho, and Vihiga United. “We are confident he will help us achieve our goal of qualifying to the Kenya Premier League,” said the Nairobi-based advocate. On Saturday, Shabana visit struggling Migori in a Nyanza South derby with Momanyi confident of emerging victorious. “We lost the three games because our key players were out with injuries while others were serving suspensions. With the new signings, I’m confident we will return to our winning ways,” said Momanyi. Migori Youth will also have a new coach in the dugout following the appointment of Marwa Chamberi. He takes over from Edward Manoah who parted ways with the club last week. “This is a derby and there are no clear favorites heading into this game. I believe my boys (Migori Youth) have what it takes to get all the three points on Saturday,” Marwa said. “I have inherited a group of talented young players and all I can say is that they don’t deserve to be where they are at the moment,” added the former Sony Sugar captain. The struggling side has only won one game and will be looking for a positive result. At the same time, the sixth-placed MCF will be away to Silibwet Leons today as NSL resumes after a 10-day break. The other match on the cards will be a coastal derby between SS Assad against Mombasa Elitestarting at 1 pm, at the Shamu Football field.