It's a wrap. For Senegal, whichever way one looks at it, their victory in Cameroon this Sunday against the Egyptians is historic. This is the first time the Lions of Teranga, the national team of Senegal, has bagged the African Cup of Nations trophy. Egypt has won seven times in the past and was hunting for the eighth with the legendary Mo Salah at their helm. Both lands are historic in the context of African civilisation. They are giants on the own rights both in West Africa and North Africa. The two lands are symbolic cognates in the argument for the powerful civilisations associated with the continent. Whereas Egypt produced the Pharaonic civilisation in antiquity, Senegal is the land that produced Cheikh Anta Diop, the leading black Egyptologist in whose memory the main university in that land is named. Tiny as it is geographically, Senegal has made great marks on the affairs of modern Africa. Several of them need notice in light of the newfound glory in which the national team and this historic west African nation now bask. It is in Senegal that one of the fathers of the African liberation movement arose. Leopold Sedar Senghor was the first president of Senegal. He was a leading voice in the anticolonial struggle in French West Africa in the first half of the 20th Century. Diop was one of the threesome who mooted the Negritude movement in the 1930s. This was a powerful cultural movement that arose in Paris among Black varsity students. He was joined by Aime Cesaire of Martinique near Jamaica and Leon-Gontran Damas of French Guyana near Brazil. The trio used poetic arts and cultural discourse to articulate black pride and anticolonial thought at the high noon of French imperialism in West Africa and the Caribbean region. They would later rise to political prominence and invest their high intellectual voltage to power their own nations to a new dawn. Though he came from a small Catholic family in a largely Muslim nation, Senghor of Senegal led his nation to Independence and dignity. As the founding father of this nation, he belongs to the generation of patriarchs such as the Osagyefo Kwame Nkurumah of Ghana and Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere. These are some of the icons of African nationalism whose peer Senghor eschewed their common vision of seeing the continent rehabilitate its soul after the long winter of European imperialism. Early in the past century, Senegal was one of the bastions of French imperial misadventure in West Africa. Dakar, its main city, was the incubator of the French colonial policy of Assimilation. Assimilation was the promise that blacks could become whites as a result of accepting the French way of life and culture through schooling. In reality, the policy was a vehicle of indoctrination and jingoistic education philosophies couched in colonial hypocrisy. The psychological alienation that assimilation caused is partly what would ironically fuel Senegalese nationalism. Psychological alienation often goes hand in hand with cultural alienation. The sense of dislocation experienced by colonised and modernised locals in colonial Senegal led them to quest for a return to their roots. Poetry became the platform for vigorous assertions of cultural pride, ancestral worship and reification of the dignity of the Black race. Senghor epitomises this moment in the history of this great nation and the continent at large. His peaceful reign as the first president and decent retirement in an era and region plagued by coups and political stability, would set the tempo for other leaders of that nation who came after him. Senegal became an island of peace in a sea of chaos in the volatile 1960s-80s. As West Africa convulsed under political chaos, this tiny land by the Atlantic navigated itself to the present respect it is accorded by all and sundry. As a poet-president, Senghor ensured that a liberal arts education was at the heart of the nation as he steered post-colonial Senegal. My interaction with this great land and its sons of intellectual comportment in arrays of conferences abroad, has left me deeply impressed time without number. Have I not met a brainy IT specialist from Popenguine, a big town in that land of majesty, who shared with me coffee and poetry discussions for an hour, demonstrating erudition in the literary arts that spoke well of his national education? He later explained that the study of the arts is not juxtaposed against the sciences as is the popular view here. Thanks to the poet-president, in Senegal, scientists have to take art courses as they pursue their own disciplines, especially at the secondary and tertiary levels of learning. It is this acute awareness of the arts, history and culture that most Senegalese exude as their badges of national identity. This is why the win on Sunday for this land with some of the highest literary and literacy levels on the continent was important. It helps cement their view of themselves as icons of African excellence. Senegal gave us Senghor and Negritude. It has given us the 2022 Afcon victory this week as sub-Saharan Africans. This is the land of hope for all of us. In this land exists the tallest statue in Black Africa. It is called the Statue of African Renaissance. See Senegal, see chances of revitalisation of our nations. Hongera, wanaSenegal! Viva, Senegal!