The much anticipated Limuru III conference which will spell out Mt Kenya region political stand will be held next month. Mount Kenya Unity Forum principals led by Martha Karua, Mwangi Kiunjuri and Moses Kuria said that the meeting will bring together aspirants, religious leaders, businessmen, professionals and opinion leaders from 10 counties including Laikipia and Nakuru. The leaders who spoke during Kuria’s thanksgiving ceremony at Thika stadium, Saturday, said the meeting will give the region a political direction ahead August 9, polls. According to the leaders Limuru III will birth the irreducible minimums that all presidential candidates must heed to for them to secure support of the region. Since the region is yet to produce a competitive presidential candidate, the meeting will seek to secure the regions secure interests through written pre and post election pacts. Karua said that the meeting will be a platform for Mt Kenya residents to give their views on which political tune they will dance to. She said all opinions will be consolidated for the region to have a united voice ahead of the general elections. “The meeting was set to be held in January but we postponed to March because Kuria was hospitalised," Karua said. "I can confirm that the planning is ongoing and we will have all residents giving their views to chart a way forward on our political stand. We want the region’s interests secured first before we can declare who to support.” The leaders said that the region will not be hoodwinked to back either Deputy President William Ruto or ODM leader Raila Odinga without knowing what’s on the table for them. Kuria said that indicators are high that immediately after the August 9 both Raila and Ruto will have a working agreement which will leave Mt Kenya region in the political cold. “This is why we are insisting that before August comes and the two get into a handshake, they tell us what they have for us in their government," Kuria said. "Our roads, health and agriculture should be key in their agenda because we are not giving our 8 million votes for free." The leaders also took issue with a section of politicians in the Kenya Kwanza faction for their vehement attacks on the region’s political parties and calling them to fold up and join their outfit. “ANC and Ford Kenya are no longer being referred to as village parties but mine is and I have no problem if it remains so," Kuria said. "We are warning them that we will give them a run for their money, will topple most of their candidates on August 9." Kiunjuri chided politicians who are backing the single-party calls saying they are the same politicians who were in TNA and URP in 2013 and are now rebranding themselves to deceive Kenyans. “They are the same monkeys in different forests, changing their political outfits is not making them any different. They are now hoodwinking voters with party euphoria and six-piece voting instead of first showing their track record," Kiunjuri said. "We have seen most of them just praising their party leaders instead of outlining their agendas to the electorate. Voters must be cautious and wary of these politicians." Karua warned aspirants ditching their parties to join one outfit saying that they will be rigged out  in the nominations and will have nowhere to go. She also called on Kenyans to back other political parties saying they can still vote for their preferred presidential candidate despite being in other parties. “I voted for President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 while in Narc-Kenya. Don’t be deceived vote for an individual who will properly represent your interests not a party,” she said. Other leaders who attended the event include Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, his deputy Joyce Ngugi, Thika MP Patrick Wainaina and former Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando among others.