The race for Mandera governorship promises to be tough as more aspirants join to succeed outgoing Governor Ali Roba. On Sunday, former East African Community and Regional Development CS Adan Mohamed launched his bid for the top seat. He said he will bring meaningful change to the residents of the border county. The CS announced his candidature to hundreds of his supporters drawn from various communities in Mandera at Sir Ali Muslim Club, Nairobi. Mohamed said he has the necessary knowledge and experience to manage county resources and spur development. Mandera is inhabited by the Garres, Degodia, Murules and Corner tribes. The Garres, who are the majority, are made up of four major subclans namely Ali, Adola, Asare and Furkesha. Mohamed comes from the larger Rer Ali subclan and has already been endorsed as the sole candidate. The former CS said he will do all that it takes to give people that dream leadership that they yearn for. “My desire to run for the seat is not driven by greed for wealth nor glory for power but to use my accumulated years of experience in public and private sectors to better the lives of our people,” he said. The aspirant said he is determined to weed out entrenched corruption and end the rampant ethnic patronage that has hampered development and fueled insecurity. He also said he will end mismanagement of public resources. Mohamed acknowledged that the task ahead was a tough one and one that requires a lot of commitment and dedication. He urged residents to join him in actualising his dream of changing the county for better. The former CS said the forthcoming election would offer an opportunity to start a new line of servant leadership. Present at the event were EALA MP Aden Mohamed Noor, former Mandera speaker Abdikadir Sheikh, and several MCAs. Others in the race are Mandera Senator Mohamed Mohamud, former Technical Education CAS Hassan Noor, Mandera speaker Adan Khalif and Feisal Abdirahman. Governor Ali Roba will not be contesting since he has served his two terms. He has however hinted at going for the senate seat. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)