Ladies, just like the way you focus a lot on skincare, your breast also need the same attention. If you happen to have saggy breasts and cracked nipples, you should consider the following tips for healthy breasts. Ditch the alcohol and cigarette A study recently showed that women who smoked at least 10 cigarettes per day and those who consumed alcohol once a week were at risk of ending up with saggy breasts. This is because the components in the product tend to break down collagen in the skin, causing a loss of elasticity and firmness. Reduce caffeine and chocolate If your breasts are in constant pain, it is important to ditch some of the products like coffee or chocolate. A study has shown that Methyl-xanthine is found in products such as coffee, chocolate, black tea, and cola drinks, and there is a significant decrease in the sensitivity of breast tissue in more than 97% of women who completely avoid methyl-xanthine. Seek professional help from a doctor as it could be an underlying condition. Check your breast weekly or after a shower Breast cancer has been on the rise, and a matter of concern for a long time. People have taken the initiative to create awareness and do regular exams on themselves to check for any changes. Perhaps observing a healthy diet, exercising and regular examination is something you should put on your to-do list at least weekly. Massage and moisturize The skin around the breast is very thin and sensitive. If you notice your breast have strawberry-like pores and the nipples appear cracked, apply moisturising lotion to prevent dryness and soreness. Lymph nodes that are present around your breast carry a lymph fluid which helps cut down the risk of developing illnesses. After applying lotion, massage the breast gently in a circular motion towards your heart, this helps stimulate the lymph in different directions and it helps you relax your breast muscle. Eat more fruits and vegetables Some studies suggest a low intake of vitamin D can be a reason for breast cancer development. Increase moderately your intake of foods high in vitamin D and eat more of those bananas, grapes, blueberries, strawberries and other fruits that are high in antioxidants. Remember to apply sunscreen whenever you step out to the sun. Get the perfect fitting bra A bra that is too tight or too loose is bad for your breast health. If you don’t know your bust size, visit clothing stores that can help you with that. It is recommended that you measure your breast size and replace bras annually. Bras are part of your clothes, so as you buy that handbag or change your pantie, remember to change your bra.