Wetland grabbers in Kisumu have been given notice, told that their structures will be brought down and activities stopped in order to conserve such area. Some of the wetland areas in the county include Ombeyi, Nyando, Dunga, Kusa, and Namthoi. Kisumu city Manager Abala Wanga said these wetlands serve a huge role in society as they act as fish breeding grounds, water purifiers, carbon filters, sources of different materials, water storage, and food control. Abala however, noted that Dunga faces a lot of challenges including but not limited to water pollution from the city and surrounding slums, encroachment (which is the main problem), over-harvesting papyrus, cattle grazing, and over-fishing. He noted that land grabbers in Kisumu have made sure that they grab anything that they can find. Also, Governor Anyang Nyong’o’s administration is on a mission to ensure that all grabbed lands including wetlands are recovered. Abala also sent a warning to wetland land grabbers saying the exercise is beginning soon, so they should start pulling down your buildings. Wanga said that encroachment into the wetlands was becoming rampant and it was unfortunate that some people even had title deeds for the said lands. “Want to tell the lands department or lands ministry or whoever they are that they should stop issuing land documents on wetlands,” he said. Abala noted that they have agreed with the office of the governor that people undertaking activities or having buildings in the wetland to stop because it's a conservation area. “This is the third notice we are going to issue once county government does approvals on the wetlands and we gazzet them. Whether you have a storey building in there we will bring it down to conserve this area”, he added. Wanga was speaking during the commemoration of world wetland day at Dunga next to the wetlands. According to environmentalist Michael Nyanguti, there is a lot of human conflict within the wetlands particularly encroachment around lake Victoria. Nyanguti, Magnum Environmental Network Boss said this is a problem that needs to be done away with. “Am calling on the county government to ensure that before approvals for any development is done along the lakeshore line, it should be within the dressing of the Environmental Management and Conservation Act that allows for a riparian area that needs not to be touched and dictates the kind of developments that can be done around the wetlands”.