Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has vowed to faithfully follow President Uhuru Kenyatta's political direction as the August 9 election campaign season continues to intensify. He said President Kenyatta is the best suited leader to give Mt Kenya and the entire country guidance on who should take over from him once his term expires. The PS added that in two weeks, they will ensure all party issues are resolved in the Friday Jubilee Party meeting. He said this will be in sync with the President's wishes who was overwhelmingly endorsed as the party leader. Kibicho expressed optimism in successfully accomplishing the task, particularly in the Mt Kenya region, saying that the head of state has great ideas for the country. The PS said the President is still Mt Kenya's kingpin irrespective of his exit from office in a few months time. "I will stand by him and campaign for whoever he supports. When he assumed the presidency, Kirinyaga had countable development projects, but throughout his term he has achieved a lot and will leave  a remarkable and a rich legacy," he said. Kibicho spoke in Gathuthi-ini Primary School grounds in Ndia when he graced the final match of the Dr Karanja Kibicho tournament in which 16 teams participated in the week-long match. He emphasised that he will not be going for any elective seat in this year's polls, but will continue rendering his service in the current administration as a state officer. "Those interested in the seats will be tendering their resignation this week. I have not announced to resign and, as such, I will continue serving the government of the day." He further said his community-based projects should not, in any way, be misconstrued for political interests but should be viewed as empowerment projects to improve the state of his home county, as well as transform people's lives. Kibicho announced that the tournament would this week be expanded to accommodate all the soccer teams in the county. This, he said, will help nurture as many talents as possible from the many youths who are pursuing soccer as a talent. Under the tournament, Ngaru FC bagged the top prize of Sh500,000 and a trophy followed by Wazito FC who were gifted a quarter million. Gathumbi FC walked away with a Sh100,000 for emerging position three. The event was attended by Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici who cautioned politicians from outside the county  to refrain from intruding into the political affairs of the county, adding that only the residents have the power to decide their leaders. Other leaders present were MPs Kabinga Wachira (Mwea),  Munene Wambugu(Kirinyaga Central), National Cohesion and Integration Commission commissioner Wambui Nyutu, among others.(edited by Amol Awuor)