Kenya Women's Premier League (KWPL) second division Zone B leaders Eldoret Falcons visit second-placed Royal Starlets at the Birunda Project Field in Kitale on Sunday. Falcons, who were demoted from the KWPL last season, remain favourites to return to the top-flight women's football. Falcons coach Joshua Ariko is confident of winning their match against their north rift rivals to maintain their unbeaten run in the Second Division. “As leaders, we have to be on top of our game and a win against our hosts will give us another chance to remain top of the league as we seek to return to the top tier,” said Ariko. The Eldoret-based club has played six matches, winning four and drawing two, collecting 14 points. According to Ariko, the Sunday match is expected to be the most competitive and it is a must-watch in the second-tier league. “We are urging fans to come and watch this game. We are prepared to showcase the girls’ talent on the ground but the challenge remains the same,” added Ariko who formed the team in 2006. He said after demotion from the top league, where they failed to record any point, he acquired three top players who are very instrumental in making sure they return and stay to the top tier. “The new players are helping us to return to the league and we want to maintain a clean sheet now that we are one of the experienced sides in the second tier,” he said. He, however, said the challenges that haunted them out of the top tier are still the same. "The story is still the same in as far as poor ground and lack of finances is concerned," he noted. Second-placed Royal Starlets are a point adrift of  Falcons on 13 points after four wins, a draw, and a loss. In Zone A, leaders Kibra Girls Soccer on 13 points face Uweza Women at the NCC Ground on  Ngong Road while second-placed Mathare Women, who were also demoted are unbeaten after five matches, having won three and drawn two will play Soccer Sisters at Komarock. Women Division two fixtures Zone A Zone B  Sunday 27 February 2022 Zone A Zone B