Almost three weeks since the Teachers Service Commission launched lesson live streaming in secondary schools,  concerns have been raised by stakeholders. The programme seeks to deal with teachers’ shortages in schools in Arid and Semi-Arid Land areas. A principal school will conduct physical lessons while 10 others will be following virtually. A number of education stakeholders have inquired into the possibilities of having internet connectivity in the affected areas. For instance, during the launch, a number of satellite schools streaming had challenges with buffering internet. In the context of streaming video or audio, buffering is when the software downloads a certain amount of data before it begins playing the video or music. Kenya Union of Post Primary Education secretary general Akelo Misori said the major challenge witnessed during the implementation of the programme is internet connectivity. Misori was speaking during an interview with with KTN News where he said there’s a need to implement a broader internet policy in schools. “I wonder whether TSC had already mapped challenges that connectivity will precede this programme so that as we roll it out, we are going to get feedback,” Misori said. He added that if the commission committed to ensuring connectivity in only two counties, then it would remain difficult for other counties. “In the circumstances that they are only connecting Isiolo and Machakos Alliance Girls it may be just mechanical,” he added. During the launch, Joshua Opondo who was representing the ICTA chief executive officer, committed to connecting at least 24,000 schools to address connectivity issues. So far, the pilot fibre connection has been done in 13 schools. Ten of them are primary schools while three are secondary schools. Every secondary school has had five teachers trained to conduct the computer lesson. That means up to 163,938 teachers have been trained on remote methodologies to be implemented countrywide. The pilot phase, which is set to take two months, will focus on science, mathematics, and English. Machakos High School and Alliance Girls' High School are the pilot principal schools. Satellite schools for Alliance are: Kipukoro Mixed, Kiwandani School, Bishop Baldacchino, Kurongurik and Suguta Girls' Secondary School. Satellite schools for Machakos School are: Isiolo Girls' Secondary School, Collin Davis Mixed, AIC Kavalula, Njoro Secondary and Muthingini Girls.   -Edited by SKanyara