@Yobramos4 MPs are investigating the award of a tender at KPA that potentially flouts the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015. KPA is on the spot for awarding two tenders for the same project to one company for the construction of the Shimoni jetty in Kwale county. After being awarded the contract, Southern Engineering Company was also awarded another Sh2.6 billion contract as consultants for the same project, for the first phase. According to the National Assembly clerk Serah Kioko, this points towards conflict of interest and therefore violation of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015. In a letter to KPA managing director John Mwangemi dated February 8, Kioko asked the KPA boss to furnish the Public Investments Committee with a list of bidders that bid for both the consultancy and as contactors. The information requested was supposed to be given within a week, by February 15. Public Investments Committee chairman Abdulswamad Nassir on Friday said there has been a response but could not delve further into the matter as it is still actively under probe. “The response will be looked at,” he said. However, the Mvita MP was quick to clarify that so far, they have not determined whether any law has been broken. “We are not saying that that is what has happened. We have not said that there is any law that has been broken. But our role is to look at public investments,” he said. Kioko’s February 8 letter was copied to auditor general Nancy Gathungu and acting Inspector General of the Inspectorate of State Corporations Theodera Gichana. “The committee resolved to request a confirmation whether SECO was awarded a contract as both a consultant and a contractor. “If yes, there has to be an indication whether the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015 was fully adhered to during the procurement process,” the letter read. Human rights activist Grace Maina has petitioned KPA boss Mwangemi asking him to clarify the matter out of public interest. “We call on the government parastatal to set a good example through leading in being open and transparent,” she said. According to Maina, KPA had set aside Sh1.7 billion for the construction of the facility in Kwale. This means the award of the tender at Sh2.6 billion is over KPA’s own budgetary allocation for the project. The tender, Ref KPA/50/2021/22/IE was opened last December. China road and Bridges Corporation, which has won several construction tenders in the country, was among the bidders and quoted Sh4.6 billion. Eight firms were pre-qualified and shortlisted for the second stage of the procurement process, down from 16. When contacted, KPA head of corporate affairs Bernard Osero on Sunday said he was not aware of the matter but promised to get back to the Star after communicating with the authority’s procurement department. However, he later said the authority’s obligation is first to respond to the committee. “I think it is only fair if you got this information from the committee. Our obligation in this regard is to respond to the committee as is the procedure,” Osero said via text message. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has thrown his weight behind the project saying it will benefit Kwale residents and raise the economy of the county. On February 11, Mwangemi said the Shimoni jetty, a pioneer fishing harbour project, will kick off in April and will eventually cost around Sh20 billion after completion. "We are happy to announce that we have completed the exercise of land acquisition which will enable us to start the project," he said. The construction of the port had previously delayed due to geographical issues. The fish port will comprise of cold storage facilities, a fish processing plant and conventional cargo handling equipment that will facilitate fish value addition and commercial trade. Other components of the port include a new fish landing jetty and a fish market to improve fishing activities and standards of living for the fishermen. The land that was earlier allocated for the project turned out to be unfavourable for the activities. The government later settled on land owned by the state department of Fisheries that is next to the old Shimoni fish landing Jetty. Initially, phase one of the project was scheduled to begin in July 2021. The project is expected to take two years to complete. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)