A lobby has launched a programme to sensitise Mt Kenya region residents of the benefits they stand to reap under Raila Odinga’s presidency. The group called Ushindi Kenya led by chairman Lee Karuri says they have taken the civic education model to ensure the mountain region understands the objectives, philosophy and ideals of Azimio la Umoja spearheaded by the former Prime Minister. Speaking in Thika after a meeting with local leaders drawn from 11 counties in the region, Karuri said the team will crisscross the region sensitising locals of the massive benefits they stand to reap. He noted with concern that quite a big percentage of Mt Kenya residents are yet to understand the ideals of Azimio la Umoja and what Raila’s presidency will mean to them and the region’s economy. “Our focus now is the grassroots. We have properly organised ourselves and we are going to reach to the people and make them understand what Azimio is and what it’s bringing to the table for us,” Karuri said. Karuri said that the group is planning to reach out to the villages through various sectors including women and youth groups, churches, business and professionals groups, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), the Transport sector as well as traders and Jua Kali groups. “We are doing this because we know the credibility of the former Prime Minister and we are upbeat that once he assumes the office of the President come August 9 he will steer our region and the entire country’s growth,” the chairman said. The group’s vice chairman James Kariuki Nginyo said that their initiative is geared towards saving Mt Kenya region from losing a chance to gain and grow economically post 2022 elections. “We know there was the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) which had loads of goodies which could have benefitted the region like the 35 per cent increment of revenue to counties but must people objected it for lack of knowledge. This time we don’t want to miss out on more benefits as a region like the revenue increment and Baba Care programme among others,” Nginyo said. Gladys Chania, a member of the group, noted that the programme to popularise the ODM leader and the Azimio coalition is out of confidence that Raila will comprehend all development projects that have been initiated in the region by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The mountain people are farmers and business people and under Baba (Raila) we have been assured that key farming sectors will be revived and boosted and that his government will create a conducive environment and favourable policies for our businesses to thrive in,” Chania said. Her sentiments were echoed by the chairman of traders and professionals in the Mt Kenya region Alfred Wanyoike who said: “Our businesses will be safe under Raila’s leadership. He has assured us that as traders we will be protected and not just by word of mouth but by law. We are certain that he will emulate his predecessor, President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Chania also quipped that Raila has taken seriously the interests of the mountain region and is expected to pick his running mate from the region. Mumbi Ng’aru, an ardent follower of Raila and a member of the East Africa Legislative Assembly who was present in the meeting, said that the country has enjoyed peace and tranquillity and witnessed massive developments after the handshake between Uhuru and Raila.