Over 2000 children from 1700 households in Garissa county have benefited from the Mwangaza Mashinani Programme. The initiative is supported by United Nations Children's Fund and implemented by the county department of energy and other partners. It provides vulnerable families with Sh4,000 every two months to purchase solar powered lighting devices. The goal is to improve the well being of children and their families with regard to health and education. Speaking during a ceremony to mark the end of phase II of the programme, Susan Momanyi of Unicef said the program was also being implemented in Kilifi county. Momanyi said it has been transformative since they have witnessed improved class performance for pupils from beneficiary households . She called on the respective county governments to adopt and scale up the programme. County secretary Abdi Ali said the program was a demonstration of the government commitment to ensure vulnerable households not only get access to electricity but also adopt clean energy solutions. “This project has shown us that improving affordability for solar lanterns and solar home systems impacts recipients’ sense of ownership and quality of life for children and their families," he said. County executive for energy and environment Habon Maalim said her department will continue to partner with development agencies and private sector to enhance the distribution of solar for school going children in grid areas. “The provision of solar home systems will continue to encourage the pupils, especially girls, to stay in school and equally reduce school drop out for both boys and girls," she said. "This will also inculcate a reading culture, improve education performance and increase transition rates to secondary school and other higher learning institutions." County executive for youth , women and culture Zeinab Digale lauded the impact of the program saying unlike the kerosene lamp which is used in most of these homes, solar is environmentally friendly. She added that solar powered devices have brought improved health and economic benefits to the women, children and the elderly. “We are witnessing fewer cases of respiratory diseases brought about by inhaling fumes from lamps, reduced accidental fires and families save money for not buying kerosene,” she said. Others present at the event included Faiza Hussein program manager VCI, Mohamed Abdi Garissa county children coordinator among others.