Do you ever struggle with getting organised during the week? Or you feel like you waste a lot of time doing a single task? Sometimes we have such hectic days that we end up doing less than what we had expected or set out to do. So, in case you have been in such as predicament, here are a few ways you can be more productive. 1. Plan the night before You can take some time before you go to bed and plan out what you would like to get done the next day. Make a to-do list. Organise your outfit for the day. Make a meal plan of what you will have for breakfast, lunch, and even supper. Once you know you have the  plans set, it will be easier to tackle things throughout your day. 2. Get up early This one goes without saying. The best way to be productive is to seize the day and eat that frog. Getting up early helps you to have more time on your hands to get more things done in your day. 3. Add movement to your morning routine But first, get a morning routine. If you have a step-by-step guide on spending your morning, you are less likely to waste time on other things or aimlessly move around figuring out what to do next. Also, incorporate movement in your morning routine. Do some stretches to awaken your brain. There’s nothing that will get you alert like a pump of endorphins from exercising. 4. Drink water and eat Staying hydrated and not starving yourself throughout the day will help you get more done. It is pretty simple. You cannot work well with an empty stomach. 5. Do the to-do list Be disciplined about fulfilling the do-to list you planned out. The whole point about being productive is getting things done. However, there is such a thing as Toxic Productivity. This is when you are obsessed with being productive and even being uneasy when you have nothing to do. Remember that it is okay to not complete the list. You can save some for another day. Take a break when your list becomes overwhelming. 6. Clear your workspace Often, you get excited working in a space that is clean and organised. If your workspace or desk is cluttered or untidy, it will impede your productivity because your mind will not be at ease. Get your workspace to be something you look forward to working in every day.