The United Democratic Alliance party has assured aspirants in the Rift Valley region and other parts of the country of free and fair primaries. This comes amid concerns and fears from aspirants, especially in the Rift Valley region, that the nominations slated for April may be interfered with. UDA elections board chairman Anthony Mwaura said no aspirant will favoured in any way or allowed to mess up with the exercise. Mwaura dismissed as untrue the rumours that some aspirants may be favoured during the primaries. “There have even been claims that some aspirants have already received the nominations certificates, while others say they have already won. We have not even printed the certificates and I wonder which ones are some people talking about,” Mwaura said. He spoke in Eldoret where the party officials met aspirants from counties in the region. Mwaura said they would invite both local and foreign observers to oversee the nominations in an area considered a stronghold of Deputy President William Ruto. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who was among those present said they want verification of documents from aspirants to be done at party offices in the grassroots to avoid congestion at the UDA headquarters  in Nairobi. While responding to Mandago’s concern Mwaura said the party will work to ensure services are done at branch offices. Mandago is completing his two terms and will now vie for the Senate in Uasin Gishu. “We want to do an international kind of nominations where even external observers will participate because we are building a huge movement that will unite this country,” Mwaura said. Mandago also called on UDA steering team to put in place mechanisms that will ensure every region's needs are captured in the party manifesto to uplift the economy through the bottom-up economic model. The county boss further asked for meetings in every subcounty so that party members come up with a document that will be added into the UDA manifesto. "In absence of proper proposals and documentation, we risk being by passed by the process yet our party manifesto must address issues in all parts of the country,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)