We’ve hardly settled into a newly started year, then another social festival comes along: Valentine's Day. While some people look forward to the day, which is meant to celebrate love, others dread the very thought of it. To many, February 14 evokes pleasant memories of past romances. For those who wish the day didn’t exist, Valentine's is just another day filled with normal activities. Valentine-haters would be in good company in Afghanistan, Iran, Indonesia and Pakistan, where anything to do with Valentine's Day is strongly discouraged. Parts of India have similar restrictions. The reasoning behind restricting Valentine's Day in those countries is that it encourages mingling between men and women not married to each other. The Afghanistan Taliban say Valentine's Day activities goes against Islamic decency. In contrast, Saudi Arabia has seen a loosening up of previous restrictions as Valentine's Day is openly celebrated. Ahmed Qassem al-Ghamdi, a former head of religious police at the Islamic Holy City of Mecca, says Valentine's Day is a positive social event not related to religion. "It is an act of kindness to share greetings on Western national and social holidays, including Valentine's Day," Ghamdi told the Al Arabiya news channel. In Kenya, this year's Valentine's will be the first since 2020 to be celebrated without the tough measures imposed earlier to control the spread of Covid-19. The 2020 Valentine's Day was celebrated before the pandemic was officially reported in Kenya. Movement restrictions and a night curfew were imposed in March 2020. All entertainment activities were banned. Restaurants, bars and parks were shut down as were schools and non-essential businesses. A year later, in February 2021, businesses and social places had reopened, but the night curfew was still on from 10 pm. Besides, many Kenyans were suffering the economic shock of Covid-19 and not in the mood for a romantic celebration. NO LIMITS This time, there are no restrictions, except in parts of the country experiencing armed conflict. For those planning to mark Valentine's Day, the only limit is the extent of your imagination. John Maloba, a 43-year-old married father of one in Nairobi, says it's good to set out time to spend with those dear to you. "The lives we live are filled with so much to do that we miss out on the simple things," Maloba says. "The thought of being with loved ones is always welcome, not just one day in a month or a year but having it as often as possible." Maloba agrees with critics of Valentine's Day that it has been turned into yet another festival of consumerist spending. "The commercialisation of the day irks me as it blocks others who may have desired to simply enjoy the moment. It brings about expectations for funds which may not be there." There are few statistics on the number of Kenyans planning to celebrate Valentine's Day. The most recent publicly available information is from 2014. A survey by Ipsos Synovate that year showed 60 per cent of respondents planning to celebrate Valentine's Day. Ten per cent said they were not in a romantic relationship and would, therefore, not mark the day. Last year, Internet search engine Google described what Kenyans were looking for online during the week leading to Valentine's Day. Top on the list were questions such as, "Where did Valentine's Day come from?" "How to dress for Valentine's Day," "What does Valentine's Day mean?" and "How did Valentine start?" These questions show that interest in Valentine's Day runs high among Kenyans. FRIENDLY AFFAIR "My friends and I used to organise something for Valentine's Day even if none of us was dating so that nobody felt left out," Edith Wanjala, 38, says. Now a mother of one, Wanjala observes that Valentine Day can be a very stressful time due to social expectations among women that they should receive gifts. Those without a romantic partner can celebrate Valentine with their friends, she advises. Like lots of other people, Wanjala feels that Valentine's Day has been excessively commercialised. "Even when you get a gift, you wonder whether the gift was genuinely from the heart or whether the gift came because it was expected of that day," she questions. There's one country that urgently needs an infusion of Valentine's spirit of romance. Japan faces a real danger of population decline as its people are not getting cosy enough with each other. Reports state that almost 50 per cent of married Japanese couples are going for more than a month without sleeping together. The phenomenon, described as 'sexless marriages', is blamed on long working hours, the presence of toddlers in the home and poor marital relations. Some couples said romantic activity was "too troublesome". A 2015 national survey on work and family life in Japan found that couples do not see the importance of romance in comparison to child-rearing tasks or work responsibilities. Respondents did not seem bothered by prolonged abstinence, but at a national level, it is contributing to the declining number of births in Japan. A paper in the Journal of Social Science shows why couples in sexless marriages take long to get a baby. With once-a-week intercourse, about 13 per cent of women will conceive during the first month, leading to an average of 12 months waiting for conception (the time it takes to conceive). When there is only once-a-month intercourse, the average waiting time for conception increases to 43 months. BUSINESS SIDE Back in Kenya, the cut flower industry faces a crisis this year unless more cargo flights to overseas markets become available in time for Valentine’s Day. Kenya's biggest cut flower markets are in Europe, North America and Australia. The Kenya Flower Council's chief executive Clement Tulezi told the Star that in addition to a shortage of flights, air freight charges had gone up. This is putting the squeeze on an industry working to recover from the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Transport has, in the meantime, allowed foreign airlines to ferry cut flowers directly from Nairobi to Europe to alleviate the air freight crisis.