The Auditor General has flagged delays in the completion of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s flagship project that was envisioned to end Nairobi's water woes. The deadline for the Northern Collector Tunnel lapsed on January 31 amid concerns the government is yet to disburse Sh4.87 billion. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in a review of the Athi Water Services Board’s books said Kenyans may not get the benefits from the project whose agreement was signed in 2014. “As a result of the delay, the project is unlikely to fully achieve the intended objectives for the public,” the auditor said in the report for the year ending June 2021. The project was to be implemented within six years from January 2014 to December 2021 with total funding of Sh26 billion. Of the funds,114.16 million Euros was from Agence Francaise Development (AfD) and Sh12.8 billion in counterpart funding by the Kenyan government. However, the disbursement from the government has been delayed. Only Sh7.95 billion (56 per cent) had been disbursed as of June 30, 2021. Gathungu cast doubt on whether the remaining monies would be obtained within the project duration which has since lapsed, and has gone beyond the January 31, 2022 extension. “The board undertook that all funds disbursed shall be fully used at the latest March 31, 2020, this has not been met. However, the drawdown period was later extended to January 31, 2022.” The project has been positioned as the solution to the water scarcity in Nairobi city, a point that former governors Evans Kidero and Mike Sonko belaboured whenever they were faced with the water crisis question. It was to improve the supply of drinking water in Nairobi by rehabilitating and extending the network to cover largely the informal settlements. The works involved reinforcing the pipeline network, rehabilitating three pumping stations, and building three new reservoir and pressure control systems. The project was heavily politicised in the 2017 presidential election campaigns after ODM leader Raila Odinga raised concerns about the project's adverse effects on the environment. But in what may worsen the prospects, key components of the project – the distribution and the treated water pipeline, have been equally delayed. The auditor said the slow progress would impact the overall outcomes. Works for the construction of the 55.2km Ndakaini-Kigoro-Gigiri transmission pipeline was about 36 per cent completion level at the time of the audit. “Although there is progress of works including laying of additional pipes, the slow progress may affect the completion of the project within the revised timelines,” the auditor said. The project end date had been revised and extended for three consecutive years from the initial project end date of December 2018. “No evidence has been provided indicating that the implementing agency had informed the lender of any decision or even which might affect the completion of the project within the extended contract period,” the auditor said. Gathungu warned that such extension will adversely affect the repayment of the loan as more interests would be accrued. “This has also affected the production component as there are costs to the component that is 98 per cent complete. And the remaining two per cent for the project testing and commissioning.” Slow progress was also reported in the pipeline and associated works for the Thika-Kigoro-Ngethu-Gigiri treated water pipeline. As of June 30, 2021, the overall progress was 34 per cent, yet the contract period lapsed in April 2019. The deadline was revised to September 2022. “It is unlikely that the revised deadline will be met given the current slow pace of works, No evidence was provided on measures being taken to avoid further delays in implementation of the works,’ the auditor said. Athi Water Services Board attributed the slow progress of works to delay in the release of funds for VAT reimbursement and land acquisition challenges on the treated water section from Ngethu to Gigiri.