Accompanying Ponda Mali on his campaign trail is like being a poll bearer at the double funerals of Truth and Facts. Or maybe the Truth’s memorial, since he seems to have died the day humans invented politics, and Fact’s funeral, he who gets murdered at every available opportunity. “My opponent has never shown any fiscal responsibility,” says Ponda Mali, shaking his head at this sad, disheartening news. “Do you know how many of his vehicles have been impounded? Seven. That’s seven with an ‘S’, and the only reason you don’t hear about this is because the mainstream media is in collusion with him to hide the facts from you, dear citizens. If the man cannot control his own finances, how can you trust him with yours?” Ponda Mali gets his reward, a thunderous roar from the crowd that’s eating up his every word. I’m at the back of the podium, performing less security duty and more of trying not to puke my guts out. “Is everything secure here?” I hear Sophia say. “Any assassins approaching from behind? Cos, you know, it would be a shame if Mkubwa got stabbed in the back with you working the rear detail.” “I wouldn’t worry about that. All the backstabbing I see is coming from Mkubwa himself.” “C’mon, Makini. Don’t tell me you never buttered yourself up to look better than an opponent.” “And by buttering myself up, do you mean piling lie upon lie? Just listen to him.” “If you elect me,” shouts Mr Mali through the loud speakers, “you shall no longer have to burn your fingers lighting kerosene lamps again.” “You promised us the same thing last time,” shouts someone from the audience. “That’s true.” The politician sounds pensive. “I did, but as you know very well, there has been prolonged draught in the country, basically a death sentence to our national forests. “This meant that there weren’t enough trees for the necessary poles required to bring electricity all the way here. But in case you didn’t notice, I worked very hard to bring down the price of matches. “I know, I know, matches come from trees, too, but they come from smaller trees, fewer trees. So, we were able to sustain their production and keep your lamps burning. Or would you rather we cut all the trees and ruin our water catchment areas that bring rain?” “Nooooo!” “I can’t believe they’re buying that drivel,” I say. Sophia shakes her head sadly. “Makini, imagine you’re being chased by crocodiles, and only two roads lead to safety. One of the roads is infested with snakes, the other is guarded by lions. Which road would you pick?” “None. I fear lions and I can’t stand snakes.” “So, you’d rather be eaten by crocodiles?” “No matter what I pick, it’s almost guaranteed I’ll die.” “There you go. That’s politics for you. If one doesn’t bite you in the heel, the other two will tear you to pieces.” “How did you become such a smartass?” “I paid attention in class.” “So, what are you saying? We all die but we have a choice of what kills us?” “You didn’t take my analogy literally, did you? I meant to say, no matter how one votes, everyone is affected, even those who don’t vote.” “The ones who get eaten by crocodiles, you mean?” “That’s right. Only in politics, the majority gets to choose the path, the rest follow.” “Shoot! We’re doomed.” “How so?” “The way that audience is cheering, it seems for the next five years, it’s the path full of snakes.”