The Controller of Budget is probing City Hall's alleged diversion of Sh490 million meant for staff salary deductions to unauthorised expenditure. City Hall is accused of failing to remit the deductions between October and December last year and union dues despite making a requisition to the CoB. The diverted union funds amount to Sh70 million for January. This comes after the Ministry of Labour requested Nairobi County Workers Union to suspend their 21-day strike notice as investigations into the allegations start. The ministry has assigned Boaz Masandu, a special officer, to assist the union in resolving the issue. In a letter dated February 1,  the ministry’s chief Industrial relations officer Kisurulia Kuloba said the assigned official will assist the union through consultative dialogue. “In the light of the aforestated, the union is required to immediately suspend the strike notice and wait for the outcome of the consultations as the dispute resolution mechanism has already been set in motion,” reads the letter addressed to KCGWU general secretary Roba Duba and county secretary Jairus Musumba. Last week, county staff through the Kenya County Government Workers Union threatened to demonstrate over failure by the county to remit their statutory deductions. The union raised the issue with CoB Margaret Nyakang’o calling for investigation and audit of the county government’s expenditure during the period under focus. “The office is committed to immediately reviewing the County requisitions for withdrawal of funds for the mentioned months, to ascertain whether there was the diversion of funds,” reads the letter dated February 3 by Nyakang’o. The COB said the investigation will also help ascertain whether the public money was utilised prudently and responsibly. The letter was addressed to Duba, copied to Nairobi Governor Anne Kananu and Finance executive Allan Igambi. The union has been urged to share any evidence they may have to support CoB’s review and investigations. Last month, the union raised the alarm demanding for the immediate remittance of all deductions without any further delay or they take action. The unremitted deductions include sacco loans, pension, NHIF, NSSF, PAYE, salaries, welfare, and union dues. Duba said failure to pay the deductions has exposed the staff to suffering from those having banks being penalised for actions outside their control. KCGWU Nairobi staff branch secretary Festus Ngari said the diversion has resulted in their bank accounts being frozen by different financial institutions and charged exorbitant default penalties on their loans. “This has denied them their only available financial survival,” Ngari said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris