Sports Cabinet Secretary Dr. Amina Mohammed is keen to fast-track the construction of public tennis courts at Moi Stadium, Kasarani this year. Speaking yesterday at her office when she hosted the Africa champion Angela Okutoyi, Amina said the government has already acquired the titles for the land and signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Tennis Kenya for the construction of the facility that will be open to the public. “The process is already underway. We are on course and we should start construction very soon,” added Amina.  She said they are hoping to start with four courts before increasing the number later. "We want to build world-class tennis courts which will be accessed by players from all walks of life and we want to build to the best standards,” Amina noted. The project has been delayed for the past four years after a visit by Internationale Tennis Federation (ITF) president, David Haggerty in 2018. The training centre is to cost between Sh400 andSh600 million with government footing close to 90 percent of the budget. Amina saluted the achievements of Okutoyi during the Junior Australian Grandslam last month, where she reached the third round of the event becoming the first Kenyan girl to win a match at a grand slam. Okutoyi has been lined up to play in the French, Wimbledon, and US Open tennis tournaments later in the year and the ministry has promised to offer all the support required. "As a Ministry, we are delighted with the performance and we will support Okutoyi in her endevaours,” added Amina. Amina said the ministry was keen on supporting all sports disciplines in the country. “Angela is playing at the highest international level and we will encourage her to keep pushing. Other sports disciplines should emulate her performance," she added. Amina hopes Okutoyi can qualify to play at the 2024 Paris Olympic Games. “I'm confident Okutoyi will be in Paris if her current performance is anything to go by," he added. Okutoyi is expected to play in the Women's futures tournament in Egypt later this month as well as a clay-court event in Italy in April. French Open Grandslam will be next for the rising Kenyan star.