Embu mango farmers have been issuing threats of cutting down their mango trees due to market challenges and wastage. "We have not benefited from mango farming this season due to lack of market. Almost 70 per cent of the early growing breeds have gone to waste," James Fundi, a mango farmer said. The farmer urged the government to establish good local and international markets for their produce. Fundi said Karurumo has enough mango fruits for a factory and the government should look forward to setting up one. The farmers spoke on Friday during an agricultural field day with KARLO and Amiran at Karurumo in Embu. The agriculture experts however urged farmers to put more effort in improving their produce upon the wake of the international market. Th farmers were urged to embrace farming quality mangoes to fit in the  international market, despite the poor market in the ongoing season. Amiran agronomist, Grace Njambi said farmers in the county have been dealing with mango diseases and pests which subject them to loses. She said that mill bugs are among the main pests disturbing farmers in the county. "Our aim is to give solutions to farmers. We have noted an increase in mango diseases and pests and that's why we came here today to advise farmers on the best products to use in their farming," Njambi said. The farmers were also advised on the supplements to use for mango development. The boosters, she said will enhance the colour, attracting more customers in the market. Embu East Agriculture officer, Stephen Njagi, said his department is determined to ensure unity in the value chain of the fruits stakeholders. Njagi said the department will link the farmers with researchers to advise and introduce farmers to the best mango farming to fit the market. "Our aim is to educate farmers on farming. We will engage the trained officers who are yet to be attached to any organisation. "The officers will train farmers on different researched packages through organised field days," Njagi said. He added that farmers dealing with fruit nurseries should register with the horticulture directorate for smooth regulation. "Farmers have been getting the wrong breeds of the fruits due to unregulated dealers. We have been witnessing cases of farmers getting a different breed from the one they ordered. "The farmers get their breeds from nurseries that lack enough knowledge. Nursery owners should get listed so that we can be able to identify them and pass the right knowledge," Njagi added. Kyeni South MCA Salesio Kimaru, urged farmers to distance themselves from politics concerning fruits farming. He urged the farmers who have been issuing threats of cutting down mango trees to hold on since the international market is in the verge of resuming. "Agriculture is the backbone of our country and we should not politicise the sector. Farm products change overnight," Kimaru said. Mangoes are among the most exported fruits in Kenya. However, farmers in Embu have faced difficulties in accessing the market this season. Embu county and other eastern counties are the highest producers of the of the fruit in Kenya. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)