Kabras Sugar head coach Jerome Muller has urged his charges to take one game at a time as the Kenya Cup playoffs draw nearer. The Kakamega-based side made light work of Nondies on Saturday for a 26-10 bonus-point win to keep their unbeaten run intact and top spot with 40 points. The South African tactician said with three games against Homeboyz, Strathmore and champions KCB coming in quick succession, they cannot get carried away with their performance so far. "My next focus is the match against Homeboyz, who are a good side. We need to win that game before we can start talking about playoffs and even winning the league title,” said Muller. Muller was impressed with their dominance in the forwards after a slow start to the season. "We based our play on our pack and we scored two tries from rolling mauls, which bodes well with our strategy as we enter into the business end of the competition," noted Muller. Kabras made 10 changes for the rescheduled match with internationals George Nyambua, Dan Sikuta, Asman Mugerwa and Felix Ayange rested. "This is a long season and you need to have competition for places and have alternatives and it did not disrupt our rhythm,” said Muller. Jone Kubu scored a hattrick of tries and two conversions with Eugene Sifuna scoring one as Valerian Tendwa added one conversion for the sugarmillers who led 14-3 at the interval. Tony Fidens scored all 10 points for the visitors which included a converted try and a penalty. Champions KCB jumped to second on the log with 36 points after an entertaining 39-30 bonus-point win over Mwamba at the RFUEA ground. Try scorers for the bankers were Jacob Ojee (brace), Max Kangeri, Oscar Simiyu, Darwin Mukidza and Johnstone Olindi. Mukidza kicked two conversions with Olindi adding one as Essau Otieno scored a late penalty to seal the contest. Mwamba replied through tries from Brian Kivasia, Joel Inzuga and Yahya Hussein scored a try each and were also awarded a penalty try. Kivasia added two conversions and a penalty.