For some people, protecting their eye care is more important than anything else because they are dependent on them. When it comes to glasses, there is nothing as irritating as those tiny scratches. Unless you spring for the expensive anti- scratch coating, there is a high chance of you getting a few scratches on your lenses from time to time. Before you do anything else, Optica recommends rinsing glasses with warm water, then using a microfiber cloth to wipe off any dirt or dust on the lenses. #Option 1: Baking soda and water “Mix a couple of tablespoons of baking soda with a small amount of water to create a thick paste. Then grab another clean microfiber cloth and gently rub the solution onto the lenses,” Optica says. After that, rinse the glasses with cold water and use a third clean microfiber cloth to give them a final wipe-down in a circular motion. #Option 2:  Alcohol “Don’t pour alcohol directly to your lenses. Ensure that you create a thick mix of alcohol with cooking soda and dab the mix with a soft cloth on your lenses gently in a circular motion to remove the scratches, ”they say. Rinse off the lenses with cool water and wipe them off again with a soft cloth for better results. #Option 3: Liquid dish washing soap Apply two drops of liquid soap on your lenses and rub them gently. Then wash off the lenses with lukewarm water but do not dab the lenses dry with any cloth. “Let the water to slide off the lenses. Then take a soft, cleansing cloth to completely dry off the lenses.” #Option 4: Car wax For minor scratches, Optica recommends putting a little amount of car wax on the lenses and rub gently with a soft cloth. Then wash it off the lenses with cool water and wipe with tissue paper or a soft cloth. #Option 5: Baby oil “Using baby oil can be equally effective like using a mix of baby shampoo with water to get rid of light scratches on your lenses,” they say. “Just buff a small drop of the oil on your lens, rub it gently and finish it off by rinsing it off with cool water. Then wipe off the water with a soft cloth till you are sure that the scratches have disappeared.” However, they say there is a no permanent solution to fix scratched glasses. Prevention is better than cure. “Use a microfiber to clean the glasses, instead of your t-shirt or handkerchief. Always place glasses down with their lenses facing upward (unless they’re inside a case that requires the opposite position) and look for a big strong case for storing them.”