Leaders from Nyaribari in Kisii county are in talks to field one governor candidate to face the Gucha alliance. They are concerned that a big number of aspirants will give an opponent from Gucha an easy win. The county is unofficially divided into Kisii Central and Gucha, with an unwritten pact that leadership will alternate between the two regions. Outgoing Governor James Ongwae is from Kisii Central, hence, the current push by many hopefuls, including Simba Arati, Chris Obure, Manson Oyongo, Joash Maangi and Janet Ongera, for a Gucha governor. Obure, Ongera and Arati are from Bobasi, which is part of Gucha. Arati is said to be ahead of the pack. Some leaders from Nyaribari, led by UDA governor hopeful Ezekiel Machogu, are resisting the push by Gucha. On Wednesday, Machogu said they have been meeting as Nyaribari leaders for tea. A source, however, said the agenda is to pick a compromise candidate. Machogu is seen as a major competitor following his defection to the United Democratic Alliance last week. On Sunday, he was holed up in a day-long meeting with ODM's Sam Ongeri at the latter's home in Omoyo, Nyamira county. The talks were said to be the start of efforts to seek a candidate from the four jostling for votes to face a Gucha opponent. Machogu also met ANC aspirant Charles Matoke and Rachel Otundo. Arati is causing jitters in the Kisii Central camp, which encompasses Nyaribari and has a large number of votes. Nyaribari has more than 160,000 votes, while Bobasi has about 90,000. On Wednesday, the leaders from Nyaribari said they are out to tame Arati as the campaigns heat up. "This is a do or die thing [meant to] unify Omonyaribari. We must set one gubernatorial candidate against him if we are to win. We will know who is this in the next few weeks," the source said. Machogu was cagey when he asked about the meetings. "Nothing out of the ordinary, just the normal coffee meetings," he said. He said holding unity talks is not a political sin. Machogu declined to address the issue of a compromise candidate. "This time we spoke about the unity of our people. I think it is not a bad idea to have coffee and talk about issues that touch on development," he said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya