In December last year, Cameroonian legend Samuel Eto'o won the elections for the country's football federation — Fecafoot. His election came a few months after another African football legend, Ivorian Didier Drogba, failed in his bid to clinch the presidency of the Cote d'Ivorian Football Federation. Eto'o has distinguished himself for a glittering career across Europe, which includes three LaLiga titles with Spanish giants Barcelona, in addition to two Uefa Champions League titles. The 40-year-old also boasts a Serie A title with Italian club Inter Milan as well as a Uefa Champions League gong and two Africa Cup of Nations title with Cameroon. With such accolades, it would have been safer for the Douala-born to sit back on his patio with a cigar to enjoy his retirement. After all, the Barcelona legend holds Spanish citizenship. However, Eto'o chose to return home and apply the skills and knowledge acquired from his long career in Europe to improve the playing standards. This is why he deserves a salute for choosing the harder option of transforming Cameroonian football rather than the easier one of savouring his hard-earned millions. He is an example to countless other footballers who have been lucky enough to earn a move to Europe and other developed countries where playing standards and facilities are much better compared to Africa. To use an analogy, Eto'o has lowered the ladder for other aspiring footballers to climb and reach the peak of their potential. Even before his election as the Cameroonian Football Federation president, the former Chelsea man was involved in various initiatives to not only grow football across the continent but uplift the living standards in Africa. One such initiative was to donate 10 ambulances to the Cameroonian Health Ministry to aid in the war against coronavirus. Back home in Kenya, the conversation around football has been the need to include retired footballers in the management of the sport based on their in-depth knowledge of the issues ailing it. This comes against the backdrop of a difficult four months during which the Football Kenya Federation was disbanded and replaced by a caretaker committee. Whether this involvement should be covertly or overtly as far as management is concerned, retired footballers have a lot to contribute to bettering the playing standards. Kudos to former Tottenham midfielder Victor Wanyama, who is currently setting up an academy in his Busia birthplace, as well as former national squad teammate Johanna Omollo, who acquired Nairobi-based community club Dandora Youth FC. With respect to these football stars, the best gift we can ever bequeath our children, grandchildren and the generations to come is to share the fruits of our labour with them and establish something that will outlive these retired footballers. I can only wish Eto'o the best as he embarks on what is undoubtedly an arduous task of taking Cameroonian football to the next level.