Leaders from Mandera are urging the state to change its strategy in combating terror attacks in the border county. On Monday, seven people died in an attack at Hagarsu, Arabia, in Mandera when their matatu ran over an improvised explosive device. Among those killed were three women, including an eight-month pregnant woman and four men. Several goats and sheep that were being ferried to the market also died. Police have already arrested one suspect in connection to the incident. He is still being interrogated. Ten patients are still admitted at the Mandera County Referral Hospital, four of them in critical condition. The leaders who visited the victims of the attack on Thursday said insecurity incidents have become rampant in the area. Lafey MP Abdi Mude urged the state to fast track completion of the tarmac road. He said once complete, incidents of IEDs being planted on roads would be a thing of the past. Mude said only KDF can repulse and deal with the militants because of the kind of weapons they use. “We are saddened that this is the same site where a number of officers lost their lives a few months ago. "Al Shabaab is a global phenomenal, however, it is becoming a common occurrence in this part of the country,” he said. The legislator asked the president to invoke his powers to ensure that the KDF safeguard the territorial integrity of this nation. Mandera East MP Omar Mohamed said incidences of IED attacks keep increasing by day. Deputy governor Mohamed Arai urged the state to come up with strategies to curb these attacks. He said the government should come up with better ways of detecting the IEDs. "The government should enhance foot patrols and vigilance to deter attacks from the militants," Arai said. He said the militants take advantage of the absence of security officers to plant deadly objects as well as well as carry out attacks. Terrorists have been planting explosives on the routes used by security agencies. They have also been targeting communication masts, vandalising them. There are concerns the persistent attacks are grounding operations in the region. Transport has been grounded in fear of attacks. Last June, the Mandera government stopped movement of their vehicles over increasing terror-related incidents. Police have been mounting operations in the area to deter further attacks. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)