Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has fired back at ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi who last week attacked him while on a campaign trail in the Western region. Speaking in Khwisero, Kakamega county, on Tuesday, Atwoli said the ANC leader is cheap and can easily be bought. "Musalia is a cheap politician, he can disappear on a shilling. He has ashamed us," he said. Atwoli was responding to a move by Musalia to join Ruto's camp. He added that Mudavadi has benefited a lot from him despite the disparaging remarks he lashed out at him. "Sijakunywa chai kwa nyumba yao. Sijakula kwao, sijakula kwake. Yeye amekula kwangu, ametumia pesa zangu," Atwoli said. Loose translation, "I've not had tea or eaten a meal at his home. But he has eaten a meal at my home. He has even used my money in his political activities". Last week, Mudavadi dared Atwoli to stop hiding in the shadows of President Uhuru Kenyatta and face him head-on at their home turf in the Western region. "With all due respect, Atwoli, stop hiding behind President Uhuru to abuse people. If you are man enough, come and abuse me here and face me directly but don't hide behind the president," Mudavadi said. He also spoke during a rally in Khwisero, Kakamega County. The ANC party leader sensationally accused Atwoli of giving handouts to Khwisero residents in an attempt to lure them to Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja movement. "Atwoli is stepping on the people of Khwisero. He thinks it's leadership when he calls people to his house to give them handouts," Mudavadi said. Atwoli recently labelled Mudavadi's ANC 'a political commercial Kiosk' saying it is not a party worth the respect of Kenyans. The Unionist said, "If ANC was a political party, I would have advised its leadership/staff to seek therapy because they are in the "bargaining" stage of grief after ANC's burial on 23/1/2022. But because ANC is a political commercial Kiosk, I will sleep peacefully knowing Western is in Azimio." Mudavadi has said his deal with Ruto will help him consolidate his Western backyard. The ANC boss has suffered a massive haemorrhage after key allies defected to ODM boss Raila Odinga's Azimio la Umoja, but he says he will fight to get more MPs in the next poll. The former Vice President said most of the ANC MPs who decamped to Azimio will lose their seats in the August 9 General Election. Speaking to the Star, Mudavadi said there has been a surge of people seeking to contest for various seats on ANC tickets in Western Kenya and across the country. “There are high-quality ANC aspirants for all seats. In Lurambi, ODM aspirants have crossed over to ANC, and in Matungu, a candidate who previously wanted to contest for the governor position has agreed to seek the MP slot on an ANC ticket, just to mention but a few,” Mudavadi said. Edited by B.Marita