DCI director George Kinoti has finally unveiled the faces behind their much talked about social media platforms. The team is known for their well articulated and creative crime reports posted on a daily basis. Taking to social media, Kinoti shared photos of the men and one woman who have made Kenyans question their English teachers. Kenyans did not waste time as they rushed to comment on the Facebook post with others ogling at the officers and even asking for their contacts. Others asked DCI to tag the officers so as to talk to them on the side in case of an 'emergency'. Facebook user Wanjiru asked DCI to tag one of the officers, "wanna send a word of encouragement as he serves the country." One Penzy Muhoro spotted a former school mate in one of the photos. She said, "My school mate so proud of you Jonah." User Florence Waichigo said, "Accompany your photos with some extra very important details like phone number, area of residence, house number etc...we might need to report some incidences." Chebo Nandi said, "Eish DCI . Good morning from Nandi you fine fine hawk. Please eye my soul. Capture me! Release me! Recapture me!" Another follower, Yahil Felix, commended DCI's work saying DCI's wordsmith should be commended and rewarded for the good work. "Jonah Kimani's penchant for scandal and a a good taste in diction is thrilling for online readers who love language. It's a torture for skimmers who just want to know what happened. The DCI's wordsmith should be commended and rewarded for the good work." According to an interview with the Washington Post, 29-year-old Jonah Kimani is the man at the keyboard. In the interview, Kimani said Kenyans from top to bottom have embraced Twitter as their source of information. “What I’ve learned is that people want thrills. You must feed your followers. That’s how the word gets out,” Kimani said. Inspector Michael Mugo, who leads the team told Washington Post that a lot of information slides directly into their DMs, "especially now that we are tweeting more often.” “I’d like to think we’ve made crime fighting more accessible to people, by speaking their language,” he said.