Macalder Kanyarwanda MCA George Duro on Thursday was sworn in as the acting Migori speaker to take over from impeached Boaz Okoth. Okoth was removed over gross misconduct and abuse of office claims. Duro was sworn in after he was unanimously elected by 41 MCAs who were present during the morning session. "I will restore sanity and the image of the assembly that had for long been eroded,” Duro said, shortly after taking the oath. “I'm grateful for the opportunity accorded by the honourable members and I’m ready to discharge my duties in accordance with the provision of the Standing Orders and the Constitution. I'm indebted to you members and will always endeavour to restore the dignity of this house,” he added. Assembly deputy speaker Mathews Chacha, who presided over the brief session, handed over the instruments of power to Duro. The motion to elect a new speaker was tabled by South Kanyamkago MCA Graham Kagali following Tuesday's removal of Okoth. Duro will continue to serve as an MCA and there will be no election in his ward. He said his first duty will be to restructure the House Business Committee to ensure pending salaries and remuneration for MCAs and staff are released. “He is in an acting capacity and that does not stop him from discharging his representation role. We may not likely have a by-election unless he fully resumes the office,” West Kanyamkago MCA Peter Mijungu. On Tuesday, Okoth was kicked out of the assembly by the serjeant-at-arms and staff, ending his four-year tenure. Okoth was impeached by 42 out of 46 MCAs in a motion moved by Muhuru Bay MCA Hevrone Maira. He was charged in court alongside seven other suspects over an office break-in. On February 3, Okoth and seven co-accused were released on a Sh200,000 bond or Sh100,000 bail after they denied charges of breaking into assembly finance offices and stealing equipment and files. The eight appeared before Migori chief magistrate Dickson Onyango. Both Duro and Okoth hail from Nyatike subcounty. Edited by A.N