Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has dismissed claims the county has a shortage of Early Childhood Development Education teachers. This follows complaints by some politicians and residents that the county is constructing many modern ECDEs that are understaffed. Speaking in Tiwi while issuing bursary, Mvurya said his administration has employed enough staff in all the departments. The governor said more than 949 highly skilled ECDE teachers have been employed by the county to provide quality education to learners. "We have adequate tutors that is why we are building many schools for young learners to get educated," he said. He further said majority of the teachers are in the permanent and pensionable job status. The county boss added that processes are underway to hire more teaching staff. "This financial year plans are there to budget for the construction of ECDE classrooms and employment of additional teachers," he said. Since devolution, Mvurya's government has constructed approximately 500 modern ECDE centres. There are fully-fledged modern learning facilities that contain food and entertainment programmes for the children. The luxurious learning environment attracts and keeps more children in schools. In the past, children shunned schools because of hunger and the long distance that translated to poor performance. Some of the families in the region cannot afford to buy two meals a day and children find it interesting to attend classes knowing they will get porridge and snacks. Mvurya said his government is committed to creating an enabling learning environment for all Kwale children. He added that with great educational background, the children will develop a strong base and passion for learning at an early stage. The county chief said improving education, health, food security and infrastructural development has remained a priority in his agenda. He further said Kwale is committed to having equal sustainable development projects to uplift the standards of living for the residents. The main goal of supporting educational programmes, he said, is to fight poverty and expose learners to fair employment opportunities. Mvurya stressed on the need to value education, adding that it is the only armour against the competitive modern world. He said the county will continue to support parents through bursary programmes to help their children fulfil their dreams and transform lives. Mvurya also urged the youth to keep off from drugs and avoid teen pregnancies. Cases of teen pregnancies and criminal activities are still on the rise in the region. Last year, more than 9,000 teen pregnancies were reported in Kwale. Recently, Coast regional security ranked Kwale to be the hub of radicalised youth. It is believed that many youths from the county are arrested by police officers while trying leave the country to join militant groups in Somalia and Mozambique. Mvurya, however, said his administration has partnered with the Kenya Defence Forces, among other security agencies, to stem insecurity in the region. Last year, more than 200 county enforcement officers were trained by KDF in countering violent extremism.  (edited by Amol Awuor)