If Agnes Tirop could see us from heaven, she would be wearing her characteristic wide grin as the buzz around the Kenyan leg of the World Cross Country Tour reaches fever pitch. Months have turned into weeks, days, and ultimately, hours, as hundreds of athletes from Kenya and beyond congregate at Lobo village, Eldoret for the one-day event, named after the 2015 World Cross Country champion. As the second-youngest athlete to ever hold a world title in cross country, it was only appropriate for the competition to be named after Tirop, one in a long line of Kenyan runners who have reinforced the country's four-decade dominance in the race. Speaking during the media launch of the event last month, Sports Cabinet  Secretary, Amina Mohamed, said the Agnes Tirop Memorial World Cross Country Tour would immortalise the 25-year-old in athletics history. "This Tour is about remembering Agnes' tenacity and her patriotism. That is why we have to celebrate her achievements on and off the track.  This Tour will pass a strong message that we are not about to let Agnes' memory go to waste," Amina said. As a tribute to the two-time 10,000m bronze medalist, the Kenyan leg will be a stark contrast to previous rounds of the gold label tour in terms of the order of activities. It promises to be an emotional ending to the competition as the senior women's 10km race is held last, rather than the norm in most cross country competitions where this category is often the penultimate one. "We know our hero Agnes Tirop was the world champion in that category and therefore, the race will be in her recognition and to advocate against Gender-Based Violence (GBV),” chief executive officer of the Local Organising Committee, Kennedy Tanui, says. Other legs of the World Cross Country Tour Gold have been held in Spain, Wales, Great Britain, United States and Italy. Elite line-up Considering Kenya, specifically the Rift Valley region, is the cradle of cross country, it is little wonder the Tour has attracted some of the giants of this race from around the world. The opportunity to compete and clinch glory on Kenyan soil seems too good to turn down for the likes of 5000m and 10000m world record holder Letesenbet Gidey and 2015 World 5000m silver medalist Senbere Teferi, both of Ethiopia. The local troops will be led by two-time world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor who says the event will be more than just a competition for him. Despite his injury woes for the past two years, there is no ruling out the fact that the three-time world half marathon champion will try to roll back the years and honour the memory of his close friendship with a first-place finish — or a podium place at least. "What matters most is to run a good race and remember my good friend Agnes. She was one of my closest friends who always had encouraging words for me whenever we went to competitions. It is a privilege to run in this race to remember her and of course, to market it as a world-class," the former world half marathon record holder says. Nevertheless, it will be anything but a walk in the park for Kamworor as other elite runners seek to come away from the birthplace of many of the world's cross country giants with a souvenir in the form of a podium finish. Some of those competing in the international category have been mainstays of the World Cross Country Tour legs in other countries. One such athlete is two-time World Mountain Running Championship silver medalist Joel Ayeko of Uganda who timed 25:36 to finish third at the Atapuerca Cross Country Meeting in Atapuerca, Spain in November last year. Fierce catfight expected Just like Kamworor, Ethiopian Gidey should expect to sweat more than usual when she comes up against her female peers, some of who have shone at previous legs of the global cross country tour. The 2016 African Championship 3000m steeplechase champion Norah Jeruto will be undoubtedly buoyed by her win at the Cross of Italica World Cross Country Tour in Seville, Spain on November 21. The 2021 Diamond League Trophy winner continued her exceptional winning streak last year by clocking 24:22, ahead of her countrywomen, Margaret Chelimo (24:23) and Beatrice Chebet (24:35) in second and third respectively. Jeruto, 26, set the pace for Saturday's race with a win at last weekend's Discovery Kenya Cross Country Championship in Eldoret, timing 33:29. The Baringo-born was emphatic about what the victory meant for her. "Winning today was good for me to prepare for Diamond League and the World Cross Country Tour,” she said. Another one who the home fans can bank on for a good performance is world 5000m silver medalist Chelimo who also earned a third-place finish at the Atapuerca World Cross Country Tour in Spain on November 14. Chelimo timed 25:04, behind winner Rahel Daniel (25:03)  of Eritrea and countrywoman Beatrice Chebet (25:04) in second. Another athlete with Kenyan blood in her veins, Winfred Yavi of Bahrain, will be hoping to benefit from some home advantage to upstage the formbook. The Asian 3000m steeplechase champion went out on a whimper at last year's Tokyo Olympics, finishing 10th in the water-and-hurdles race. A great performance in her country of birth may just be the spark she needs to take 2022 by storm. Back to yesteryears Before the present rulers of cross country begin battling on the energy-sapping course, fans will be treated to a parade by 18 retired athletes who hoisted Kenya to the throne of cross country. The presence of five-time world champions Paul Tergat (1995-1999) and John Ngugi (1986-1992) —as well as Isabella Ochichi (bronze medalist), Paul Kibowen (two-time short races champion) and  Edith Masai (three-time short races champion) — is sure to add a lot of flavour to the event. "These are the veterans who have represented the country and did very well in past cross country series. We will parade them to show the world that they are our retired athletes and give them recognition for what they have done for Kenya," Athletics Kenya director of youth development, Barnaba Korir, explains. Hopefully, these legends will inspire kids and teenagers in attendance to follow in their footsteps and keep Kenya's cross country fire burning brighter. As part of an ambitious program to tap talent at a young age, there will be a 1km race for boys and girls aged at least 10 years to curtain raise the Tour. Afterward, the under-18s and under-20s will take to the course in that order to whet the crowd's appetite ahead of the main course/event. "Kids athletics is a department that is coming up within World Athletics, in partnership with the Ministry of Sports and AK to ensure that these talents develop an interest in athletics while they are still young," Korir says. Consequently, the course has been adjusted from the one used at the National Cross Country Championship to accommodate the varying needs of the competitors. Although cross country is renowned as a treacherous race, Korir concedes that some of the changes are necessary to ensure every participant comes away in one piece. "When it comes to the kids and the under-18s, we have designed the course in such a way that they will not have to go through the muddy terrain. All the other categories will be expected to go through it. What's important is that no one gets injured," he says. Korir adds: "I also used to run cross country. In fact, there was a time we were running through muddy terrain and we lost our shoes in there. We could not even take our clothes off because it was very cold. That is the nature of the cross country." Nonetheless, Korir's words are music to the ears of many athletes who love a good challenge as far as tough courses are concerned. No pain, no gain is the mantra of cross country and by the end of Saturday, many boys and girls will have graduated into men and women after pushing their bodies to the limit.