LG Electronics has on Friday unveiled compelling all-in-one solutions and ultra-convenient Bluetooth speakers ideal for all kinds of settings, from outdoor parties to dinner parties, to pulsating clubs. Dubbed the LG XBOOM Go PL, the portable speaker is part of the latest XBOOM lineup of Bluetooth speakers first introduced in the market in 2015. Aimed at delivering powerful sounds and ultimate ease-of-use, the LG XBOOM Go PL comes in three models -PL7, PL5 and PL2. Speaking during the product unveil, LG East Africa Managing Director Sa Nyoung Kim said LG's mission is to continuously leverage on latest innovations and technology to help consumers live a better, more convenient and fulfilling life that they deserve. "With these new speakers, users get greater versatility thanks to its advanced portability and connectivity options that support excellent audio quality any time or place, keeping the music playing and the good times rolling,” Kim said. Equipped with Meridian’s advanced audio technology, XBOOM Go PL speakers deliver high-quality sound with a deep base, rich treble and clear vocals. For a wide sound stage with excellent detail across the higher frequencies, the PL7 employs dual tweeters, while all models produce exceptional bass thanks to the inclusion of Dual passive radiators. With the Dual Action Bass feature (PL7, PL5), the speakers pump out dynamic bass that users can feel as well as hear. Besides sound, the speakers boast enhanced usability and a stylish new design. Although compact in size, they have the long battery life necessary for true take-anywhere convenience. In addition, it has the multi-colour lighting feature that complements the speakers’ excellent audio quality and adds an element of visual excitement to the user experience, employing a three-step process to detect tempo based on soundwaves, and producing pulses of light by the speed and beat of the song. Presenting next-level convenience, the lineup supports hands-free functionality, voice commands and multi-phone pairing. Additionally, users of TIDAL, the subscription-based service that offers high-definition music videos with lossless audio, can easily play their favorite content from the TIDAL smartphone app via Bluetooth connection. Available in LG Brand shops and LG online store, the LG XBOOM Go PL series will retail at a price range of Sh11,000 to Sh25,000.