@alalmaurice Four aspirants for the Kisumu gubernatorial seat have vowed to unveil one candidate to face off with Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o during the August election. Former Governor Jack Ranguma, former speaker Onyango Oloo, Senator Fred Outa and former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura said they will officially unveil a candidate in two weeks. On Monday, in a resolution read by Oloo on behalf of other aspirants, they agreed to mount a political battle against the incumbent through well structured and funded campaigns, to clinch the seat. They were accompanied by ex-Kisumu energy executive Richard Ogendo, Nyando parliamentary aspirants Patrick Ouya and Owino Ogendo. Their plan of unveiling and supporting one candidate is seen as a calculated move to consolidate votes from the larger Kano and their support base. Obura, Ranguma and Outa come from the Kano clan, which is the vote-rich while Oloo has roots in Siaya but was born and bred in Manyatta in Kisumu East subcounty. Lately, the ex-speaker has been marshalling support of the diaspora in Kisumu East and Kisumu Central, which is the largest voting bloc. The targeted groups are from Siaya, Migori, Homa Bay, Nyamira, Kisii and other marginalised groups. While calling for free and fair ODM nominations, Oloo said they are ready to face Nyong’o to ensure he is voted out. “We have all it takes to win, we cannot allow the people of Kisumu to continue suffering and languishing in poverty,” he said. Outa and Obura have in the past said they are ready and well prepared to unseat Nyong'o even if he was to be given a direct ODM party ticket. ODM is vouching for consensus in areas where the contest for the party's ticket is likely to be stiff and polarising. To avoid fallouts that have the potential of weakening the party ahead of the election, the party's stalwarts have in the recent past indicated, ODM might be forced to consider handing direct nominations to some candidates. Outa was confident, whoever they will support will defeat Nyong’o. Outa, who campaigned for Nyong’o in 2017, said he has failed to fulfil the promises he made to residents. He faulted Nyong’o for destroying the livelihoods of residents following demolitions to pave the way for projects in the city, poor health system and impassable roads in the county. Ranguma, who was ousted by Nyong’o, assured their supporters, their candidate will rescue them from poor leadership. He said he was ready to sacrifice his ambition to ensure Nyong’o is defeated. Obura, who is the East Africa Community chief administrative secretary, said they will send Nyong’o home. He criticised him for demolishing business structures of small scale traders before providing alternative spaces to do business. Obura has been crisscrossing the county to popularise his bid. Late last year, Ranguma gave Obura his blessings to seek the seat on the ODM ticket. He also asked Outa to back Obura. However,  he would later rescind his endorsement to Obura. In November last year, Ranguma announced, he was not going back to the Orange party. Obura urged eligible voters to get listed and vote for ODM leader Raila Odinga. He, however, said voters should be allowed to choose leaders of their choice at the county level. The leaders told off some politicians over the predetermined ODM lineup ahead of nominations and polls. Oloo said such were to blame for voter apathy in the region. “Our people are shying away from voter listing. This is damaging Raila’s presidency bid,” he said. Oloo dismissed preferred candidates saying people should be subjected to free, credible and transparent nominations. The leaders decried low voter registration in the region and resolved to mobilise eligible voters to enlist. Nyong'o ascended to the office on a platform of development and a commitment to ensure prudent use of public resources. He promised to roll out village councils and hire administrators to entrench devolution. He fulfilled the promise. Nyong'o is credited for bringing financial discipline to the county offices. He said in a record three years Kisumu has undergone a great transformation on development matters. Edited by Kiilu Damaris