ODM leaders have said that anybody aspiring to be in Azimio from Nyanza region as a candidate must come through ODM. The leaders who were traversing Ugunja constituency under Azimio Mashinani Ugunja, noted that Azimio is ODM in the region and nothing else. Led by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and Senator James Orengo, the leaders noted that they will not gamble with the other county positions. "We have resolved in one accord that as we elect Raila Odinga as the 5th President, we are going to equally elect all ODM candidates for all the other five positions in the county," Wandayi said. The positions include governor, senator, MPs, Women Representative and MCAs. He said the reason they are doing this is that as Raila implements his progressive ODM manifesto at the national level, they equally want people down at the grassroots to implement such/same. "We cannot mix beans and maize. It's time to differentiate sheep and goats now. You are either ODM or something else, because there is no in between," he added. Wandayi added that they will not gamble with the other seats. "People will come for different positions presenting their ideas, listen to them but voting is for ODM," he stated. Wandayi noted that they were committed to ensuring that Raila wins the elections in the 1st round. "Raila will only get a second term if he has people in the other five positions who can implement his manifesto at the grassroots level." Orengo, who echoed Wandayi's sentiment, said this is a consequential year, very important political year where Kenyans are going to decide whether we move ahead with project democracy and make sure every Kenyan enjoys the rights enshrined in the constitution. He said the only person who has been progressive in fighting for the country is Raila Odinga. He also took issues with claims from different politicians that Raila was a project (Uhuru's). "I only know in the political circles, in active politics that there is only one person who started as a project and that is DP William Ruto". He added, "Ruto started as Youths for Kanu project. Even Raila made him what he is, and to enter national politics." Orengo added that they don't want politics of blackmail and stealing. They want the country to be led by a loyal and honest leader.