Chess Kenya has introduced the game in various Kenya Prisons Service facilities under the Chess for Freedom programs. The program, under the International Chess Federation (FIDE)  Social Commission, was on Thursday launched at Kisii Main and Kisii Women’s Prisons. Chess in Schools Nyanza region coordinator Saphinah Kenyando launched the program by donating chess boards for prisoners and warders. Kenyando said trainers from Chess Kenya will train prisoners and warders on the game. The program is aimed at fostering the prisoners' reintegration into society after release by inspiring self-motivation, developing capacity to foresee consequences and demonstrating that success is a reward of hard work. Kenyando, who was accompanied by Prisons Officer in charge, Francis Opondo and Kisii Police boss Francis Kooli added: “Besides that, Chess improves behaviour, decision-making and impacts positively in inmates' overall health like fighting depression, stress and anxiety while motivating them to change for better.” She added: “I am optimistic that we shall realise a very positive outcome of this momentous program in the prisons and even the National Police Service. Chess is the tool for mental health.” She said the Chess Kenya Federation under the leadership of Bernard Wanjala will engage Prisons Headquarters with the aim of introducing the game in all correctional facilities across the country. The program kicked off in May 2021 with an online conference and an exhibition tournament. The first Intercontinental Online Chess Championship for prisoners was held in October 2021 with the US, Armenia, Norway, Russia, England, Brazil, Italy and Spain taking part. Opondo and Kooli hailed the initiative saying it will go a long way in improving the mental health of prisoners and officers. “Since the introduction of virtual courts due to the Covid-19 pandemic, prisoners rarely leave this place. This will help keep them engaged and I want to thank Chase Kenya for this gesture. Games make people interact and socialise. This is very important and will relieve my officer and prisoners' stress,” said Opondo. Kooli said: “This is one way of addressing the mental health issues affecting prisoners and officers. This is a follow-up on the training we underwent in Chiromo on mental health and wellness. This has come at the right time.” Godfrey Bogonko, an inmate, added: “I want to thank Chess Kenya for donating chess boards. We all know chess is a mind game that helps players think critically and triggers reasoning. We need this game as prisoners.” Another inmate, Ann Mwangi, said: “This game is one way of helping us stay busy because sometimes this place can be lonely. I’m looking forward to learning the game and taking part in tournaments both virtually and physically.”