Former Water Resources Management Authority manager has been fined Sh7.6 million or 24 years in jail for soliciting and receiving bribes from its regional managers. James Ambuso, a former finance administrator, was convicted of receiving Sh910,000. Senior principal magistrate Eunice Nyutu, in her sentence, said Ambuso was a public officer at the time of the offence and he had a duty to safeguard public resources. He, however,benefited himself. “Such actions are to be frowned upon, use of public resources for personal enrichment shall not be tolerated, ”  Nyutu said. The court heard, Ambuso would solicit and receive the money from the regional managers to facilitate continuous disbursement of operation and development funds to the water agency. Ambuso was also a powerful individual capable of effecting the transfers of the regional managers from one station to another, if they didn’t send kickbacks. Court records show his powers to transfer forced the managers to send him kickbacks. In his testimony, Geoffrey Mworia, who was one of the managers, said when they could not keep up with Ambuso’s demands, they were transferred from their stations as punishment. However, Nyuto said no evidence was adduced to prove he effected transfers of the officers. The offences are said to have been committed between 2012 to 2013. Sixteen witnesses testified in the case. Ambuso corruptly solicited Sh445,000 from Mworia between May 2012 and February 2013. The money was an inducement for continuous disbursement of operation and development funds to Warma's Mombasa regional office. He received the money through Patrick Ngemi and then solicited Sh465,000 from Boniface Mwaniki. The money was to serve the same purpose as that of Mworia’s bribe. He was convicted on those charges and acquitted on five other counts. Ambuso, after being sentenced, asked the court if he could make the payments in installments. The magistrate, however, asked him to make a formal application and argue it before court. Edited by Kiilu Damaris