Bananas are rich, edible tropical and subtropical fruits that grow upward in clusters. They sprout from a palm-like flowering plant that has very large leaves but lacks a woody trunk. Bananas are high in potassium, magnesium, vitamin C, vitamin B6, and fibre. They've been known to also aid in weight loss, reduce swelling, and increase white blood cell production. On top of that, they're high in antioxidants, which means they can help protect you against cancer-causing toxins. Not only are bananas packed with health benefits, but the magnesium in them helps maintain Gamma-Aminobytric acid levels ( a neurotransmitter that promotes sleep by slowing brain waves and calming the body,) which play a significant role in helping one achieve restful sleep. Since magnesium ensures healthy levels of GABA, people dealing with insomnia or other sleep disorders can find relief by eating a banana before bed. On top of that, the potassium, and vitamin B6 in the fruit work together to help one fall asleep faster and rest peacefully as potassium helps relax one's muscles. They also reduce stress and anxiety, alleviate muscle cramps, and regulate your sleep-wake cycle with serotonin and melatonin. Note: For better sleep, avoid refined sugar and carbs before bed because they can contribute to poor sleep and digestion. As elevated glucose levels can keep one awake depending on how sensitive their body is. Vitamin B6 in bananas works to convert the amino acid tryptophan to serotonin, the neurotransmitter controlling melatonin levels in the body. Melatonin regulates your internal clock by causing you to feel sleepy in the evening. Without enough melatonin, it may be difficult to fall asleep. By eating a banana before bed, you ensure your body has what it needs to relax and find a good night’s sleep naturally. So if you've been struggling with sleep then you know what to do. Ensure you have dinner early to allow your stomach time to digest the meal then finish it off with a healthy, fresh banana and say hello to better sleep.