Meru residents have expressed mixed reactions over Agriculture CS Peter Munya's decision to shelve his gubernatorial bid for national politics. Munya on Wednesday said that he will retain his position in the Cabinet to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta till the end of his term. He said though he will not challenge Governor Kiraitu Murungi in the coming election, he will heavily be involved in national politics. On his part, Kiraitu said he was a happy man and stress free after Munya’s exit. He said he is committed to support his (Munya's) endeavors in the national politics. Kiraitu thanked Munya for making his work easier. “I will now work without stress to make Meru great. This is my last campaign and I will throw everything into it to ensure that I win again. "This is a gift to me from God. I promise we are going to work together. We will also embrace his supporters,” he said. The governor said the Meru community was ready to rally behind Munya for him to be appointed ODM leader Raila Odinga’s running mate. Deputy governor Titus Ntuchiu could also not hide his joy as the only headache in their re-election bid was Munya. The Meru gubernatorial race now remains a two-horse race between Kiraitu and Meru Woman Rep Kawira Mwangaza. However speculation is rife that Senator Mithika Linturi might vie on UDA ticket. Some Meru residents who supported Munya seemed disappointed. They asked Igembe North MP Maoka Maore or Senator Linturi to unseat Kiraitu. Mwiti Roney from Igembe said the last tangible developments they had seen at their village was during Munya’s regime. “We were waiting for him but we wish he becomes Raila’s deputy. We were thirsty to receive him. I am even willing to say governor ni Mama," he said. The CS however said he will support any aspirant vying for the Meru governorship under the Azimio La Umoja movement. He said he will also be in the boardroom meetings crafting how his party, PNU, can strengthen its relationship with the Raila Odinga-led Azimio. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)