Bungoma High school in Kanduyi constituency in Bungoma County has launched a modern gate worth Sh3m. The event was graced by Western region director of Education Stephen Barongo who lauded the school management for the move to build a modern gate. Barongo pointed out that the gate will solve issues of insecurity within the school and ensure that students are staying in a secure environment. “I am very impressed with the move by the Principal of this school Mr Enock Andanje for coming up with such a fantastic initiative of ensuring that the school gets a modern gate,” Barongo said. Barongo pointed out that the gate is one of the best adding that it has given the school a new face. “Out of the many schools I have visited, Bungoma high school gate is one of the best,” he affirmed. He also urged students to double their efforts as the examination period approaches assuring them of the ministry's support throughout the examination time. “I want to assure both class eight and form four candidates who will be sitting for their exams that the ministry of education will work closely with the security department to ensure candidates are working in a conducive environment,” he said. He asked school heads to ensure that their institutions stick to exam regularities to avoid risking results cancellation. Enock Andanje, the school Principal told the Star that parents are the ones who started fundraising for the construction of the gate by giving Sh2,000 each. “Sh. 3M was not only used to construct the gate but also to better the perimeter walls that run around this school to improve the security in the school,” Andanje said. He added that the school is within Bungoma town and needs tight security. He revealed that the gate also has an office for the security guards and washrooms for the visitors. The gate also has a cell that will help the school detain notorious people before reporting them to the police station. “No visitor will be allowed to the school without going through all the protocols at the gate as it will help minimize theft and drug supply in the school,” he said.