Kisii Governor James Ongwae has reorganized his government after three County Executive Committee members (CECs) resigned to seek elective seats in the August 9, elections. With six months to the elections, Ongwae opted not to appoint new CECs but delegated more roles to the remaining ones. In a memo, Governor Ongwae said Education, Labour, and Manpower Development CEMC Amos Andama will also act in the Department of Energy, Water, Environment and Natural Resources. He will take over from former Bonchari MP Charles Onyancha who resigned to contest the Kisii Senate seat. Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, and Cooperative Development CEC Esman Onsarigo had been given additional responsibilities and will now act in the department of Roads, Public Works, and Transport. He takes over from Vincent Sagwe who quit to vie for the Nyaribari Chache parliamentary seat on an ODM ticket. He is seeking to replace incumbent Richard Tong’i. Ednah Kangwana, the Administration, Corporate Services and Stakeholder Management CEMC will now head the department Culture, Sports, Youth and Social Services in an acting capacity. She takes over from Duke Mainga aka Echate who resigned to contest the Kisii County senate seat which is currently held by Sam Ongeri. He will battle it out with Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka, Okeng’o Nyambane, and former KTDA company secretary John Kennedy Omanga. Ongwae also named Lands, Physical Planning, and Urban Development  CEC Walter Okibo as the acting Trade, Industry, and Tourism minister. The position has remained vacant since the resignation of Skitter Ocharo who quit after she was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. Onyancha, Sagwe, and Mainga resigned on February 8 in compliance with section 43(5) of the Elections Act that requires public officers wishing to contest in elective positions to leave office six months before the election date. Other top officials who resigned were municipal board vice chairman Pius Abuki who is in the race for the Kitutu Chache South parliamentary seat and county public service board member Jeriah Bosibori who is eyeing an MCA seat.