The Mombasa County government on Tuesday suspended the new traffic system imposed last Tuesday following a public uproar. Confusion hit Mombasa’s Central Business District last Wednesday morning as the new traffic rules became effective. According to the new traffic rules, most of the major roads had been turned into one way with an aim to ease traffic and reduce travel times for motorists. The trucks had been barred from using the CBD except between 8pm and 5am daily. However, this brought chaos and huge traffic snarl-up in the town centre. Following the public uproar, Transport Executive Taufiq Balala announced the suspension of last week’s directive on Tuesday. Motorists will revert to the normal traffic flow system. “We have arrived at the decision after consultation with the governor (Hassan Joho), engineers in the transport department, stakeholders and political class, who were all knocking on our doors since we implemented the new system,” said Balala. The County Executive defended the new system, saying it was a success, "but the voice of the people had to be heard.” “We are now going back to the drawing board to discuss the challenges identified in the new system and find a solution on how best we can solve the traffic menace in the region,” said Balala. Last week, the Matatu Owners Association in the Coast region faulted Mombasa County for failing to conduct a stakeholders meeting and public participation with all Saccos affiliated with the association. Salim Mbarak, the MOA coast region coordinator, said they were not notified, and neither were they involved in any meeting to discuss the new traffic changes. “There was no consultation or public participation from the Matatu Owners Association, and neither did all the Saccos in Mombasa get involved. This system is bound to fail. It is a one-man show,” Mbarak said. Mbarak further said the new changes were against traffic laws and were going to cause more accidents because drivers would be driving on the wrong side and would be forced to pick and drop passengers in the middle of the road.