ODM leader Raila Odinga is in India to benchmark for the social protection programme he intends to roll out if he wins the August 9 general election. The ODM boss is campaigning on, among others, a promise to implement Sh6000 monthly stipend to poor households to cushion the families from poverty. The Star has established Raila is in India to study how the country’s social security system has managed is working. India is one of the countries with a robust social empowerment programme that has managed to keep its poor population under a safety plan. “Raila main mission here was to study India social security system particularly for the poor, widows and subsidy to farmers,” Raila’s spokesman Dennis Onyango said. During his India visit, Raila also held a meeting with India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Raila has severally defended his ambitious promise saying having served as the Prime Minister; he will seal all the loopholes being used to steal taxpayers’ money to get the cash to implement the plan. His adversaries in Kenya Kwanza led by Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi have however dismissed the proposal as a campaign gimmick that will not see the light of the day. Ruto has christened the proposal a handout meant to hoodwink voters, especially the youths. However, Raila has scoffed at critics saying just like the free primary rollout by the grand coalition government, he will implement the programme if elected. The ODM leader said the Sh6000 stipend the biggest social welfare programme in Africa–will be rolled out as a direct cash transfer programme. The African Union High Representative for Infrastructure left the country for a ten-day visit that will see him visit Ethiopia and India. Raila’s spokesman said the ODM boss was to attend the 35th Summit of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from February 5-6 and then proceed to India before returning to the country. “In his capacity as the African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa, Odinga will hold Infrastructure related events and meetings on the sidelines of the Summit,” Onyango said in a statement to newsrooms. Edited by Kiilu Damaris