The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics is under fire for spending Sh290,000 per day for rent of office space it never occupied. The statistics agency spent Sh163 million between October 2017 and June 2019 yet did not occupy the space. KNBS management was on Tuesday hard-pressed by the National Assembly Public Investments Committee to explain the anomaly. “Why are you paying about Sh290,000 a day for rent? Don’t you think this is a very high figure? ” PIC chairman Abdulswamad Nassir said. PIC raised the concerns following a query by Auditor-General Nancy Gathungu who questioned the irregular procurement of rental space by KNBS. The statistics agency leased the office space for Sh105,300,000 per year from January 2018. This includes service charge and was offered a 90-day grace period from the signing of a letter of offer to allow for preparations of the space prior to occupation. Gathungu said the 90-day grace period was not sufficient for the procurement process for the contractor and completion of the works to ready the building for occupation. “As a result of a lease agreement that was skewed in favour of the landlord, the bureau paid rent for the period between October 2017 to June 2019 of Sh163,083,000 while the building remained unoccupied..." the report reads. "[There was]...no value for money achieved hence misuse of public resources.” KNBS director general MacDonald Obudho said the Public Works ministry was to blame for recommending the rental estimates. He also told MPs that the procurement was commissioned by his predecessor Zachary Mwangi who retired after the release of the 2019 Census results in 2020. “It is true that the rent is high. The Ministry of Public Works gave the estimates. I was not there but my predecessor was Zachary Mwangi,” Obudho said. The auditor said taxpayers did not realise value for money in the payment of Sh163 million - the lease amount. “The management (KNBS) was in breach of law,” the auditor said. The question MPs want answered is why the KNBS paid the high amount without taking possession of the property. “The issue raised by the auditor-general on value for money is serious,” Mandera North MP Ibrahim Abdisalan, who is PIC vice chairperson, said. The committee asked the agency to furnish it with details of the procurement to ascertain what transpired even as the KNBS boss maintained the law was followed. “The process of acquiring the office space for the bureau’s headquarters was competitively done through an open tendering process, resulting into a lease agreement,” Obudho said. He said KNBS took over the office space immediately the rental contract was signed with the lessor, and that the tendering process for partitioning works started immediately. “The works could not begin earlier due to the fact that the acquisition of space had not been concluded,” he told PIC. He said there was a delay caused by the main contractor which impacted on the other contractors and therefore they could not conclude their works on time. “The contract was extended twice and two default notices were issued by the State Department for Public Works who were supervising the works,” Obudho said. He said the damages of Sh5.2 million were recovered from the main contractor. He said KNBS “partially started utilising the office space in January 2019 for the 2019 Census preparatory activities, storage and distribution of census materials and the setting up of the Census Data Centre.”(edited by Amol Awuor)