Mount Kenya University has rolled out a comprehensive plan to offer scholarships in sports and the arts in an effort geared towards producing well-rounded graduates. MKU Chairman Simon Gicharu made the remarks during the launch of a state-of-the-art tennis court at  Thika Campus last week. Gicharu said the institution intends to offer sports-focused scholarships to supplement the existing traditional academic programmes. The university, he said,  would also unveil a partnership with a leading thespian and comedian to promote the arts. “You may have come here to study but you also need to play. We want to see you exploit your potential fully,” Gicharu told the students. “I always say that an institution that does not allow its students to exploit their potential fully is not an institution of learning. We will introduce as many sporting activities as possible,” he added. Gicharu said that games can help young people deal with the pressures of life arising from studies, family backgrounds and society. “In the recent past, we have read, heard or seen the social upheavals. Use sports to keep yourself busy… to expedite that energy in the right direction,” he said. “We do not want to lose the lives of young people where it could have been avoided.” The university has in the recent past increased focus on sports and the arts as it seeks to equip students with diverse skills while enabling them to explore their potential across different areas. The move is also aimed at improving the physical and mental health of students. Meanwhile, the university recently commissioned the Mwai Kibaki Convention Centre at Thika Campus which will, in addition to Other than serving as a conferencing facility, will also be used by students for concerts, plays and related productions. In December, the institution inked a deal with Thika High School to build a sports field and indoor arena that will be accessible to, not only the two institutions but also the public. Prof Vincent Gaitho, pro-chancellor MKU, exalted the important role played by sports. “Sports can give you a career and can also be an opportunity to bring harmony among people… it brings people together and has no boundaries. In sports, you build a spirit of oneness and makes you develop as a leader as well as a person who can take action,” he said. Prof Deogratius Jaganyi, vice-chancellor MKU, told the students to take advantage of the facilities. “Being at the university is not just about academics but also a place to build other talents. I am proud of the winning spirit of the MKU students,” he said. Meanwhile, Mount Kenya University has donated Sh500, 000 to the Mt Kenya Mountain Running set for  February 26 at the Kenya School of Adventure and Leadership (Kesal) in Meru County. Mt Kenya Mountain Run chairman, Joseph Kinyua said they also managed to secure sponsorship from other corporates and individuals, adding that they expect 5,000 people to take part, including elite runners. “We are happy that MKU is partnering with us. The University also partnered with us during the inaugural run in 2020,” said Kinyua.