I marvel at the power of belief. In 2014, the story of a South African pastor who convinced his congregation to eat grass shocked the world. But then again, it’s not surprising from a belief perspective. His followers believed him when he told them that eating grass would get them closer to God. Once a belief is activated, people can do unbelievable things. Belief can make or break you; a limiting belief is a conviction that breaks you. Interestingly, it doesn’t have to be true. It can be a lie, but once believed, it becomes your ‘truth’. I’ve discovered that, often, limiting beliefs are lies that people believe as truth. Imagine you’re on a Safari, and you see a lion eating grass. What would you think? Most likely, you would be surprised. Why? Eating grass doesn’t align with the lion’s design; the king of the jungle doesn’t like salad. Now, if a lion eats grass, it has bought into a belief system that works against its design – this is a good picture of limiting beliefs. Any belief that works against your purpose and design is a limiting belief. So, how do you debunk your limiting beliefs? Here are three simple steps. Interrogate Limiting Belief: In defence of a nasty attitude or behaviour, often we hear people say: “that’s how I am.” And normally my reply would be: “I don’t believe it.” In that situation, I challenge people to ask questions that would lead to the root of the matter, and not helplessly surrender to the belief that is causing harm. A limiting belief is a harmful conviction that has gone unchallenged; you have accepted it, and it’s limiting your greatness, power, potential, results, options, joys, etc., – but you would rather suffer under its weight. Spot the Lie: The purpose for interrogating your limiting belief is to find the lie that powers it. Every limiting belief is powered by a lie. Find it, and you begin to weaken the belief’s grip on you. If it’s a limit on your purpose, it’s a lie. Once the lie is exposed, now it’s time to replace it. Program the Truth: To break a limiting belief, you must displace it; the thinking no longer services your belief system. It is done by replacing the harmful belief with the truth about your design, purpose, and strength. If your limiting belief is a lie, then what is the truth? State your truth, and believe it – don’t stop until it sticks. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 