The Njuri Ncheke council of elders have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to endorse Nairobi Governor  Anne Kananu for a second term. Led by their national chairman Linus  Kathera, the elders said they will only support the political party that will endorse Kananu. "We ask the  President and the people of Nairobi to endorse and support Governor Kananu to run for a second term. We are ready to support the President's political stand as long as he heeds our wishes to support our very own as the  Ameru people,” Kathera said. The elders were speaking at Karen where they endorsed Kananu for the Nairobi governorship. It was also a luncheon in honour of the elders to commend them for the support they accorded Kananu during her appointment as the third and first female Nairobi governor. On her part, Kananu reiterated that she will fiercely defend her seat in the August 9 election, even as she sought the support of the Njuri Ncheke. "I want to declare that I am in the race to defend my seat for a second term to enable me to finish ongoing projects and deliver on my promises to Nairobians,” she said. Kananu was sworn in as Nairobi’s first female deputy governor in January last year following Mike Sonko's impeachment in December 2020. Nine months later, amid a series of court battles, she was sworn in as Nairobi's third governor on November 16 last year. Despite her tenure being rocked by many court cases and political hurdles, Kananu has banked on a few developmental programmes which include issues of women, children and education. "Delivering my promises to the people of Nairobi has been my biggest priority despite facing many challenges along the way. However I am proud to say that I kept my word and continue to serve the great people of Nairobi," the governor said. Being a Jubilee Party member, Kananu joins businesswoman Agnes Kagure and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia who are also after the gubernatorial seat. In ODM, so far only Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi has declared an interest and launched his candidature. Makadara MP George Aladwa also announced his interest but has since gone quiet. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru are interested in leading Nairobi county. The coalition between ODM and Jubilee under Azimio la Umoja, which is Raila Odinga’s preferred vehicle for the presidency, is supported by both Jubilee and ODM members. The move will be cemented under ratified coalition as the cordial relationship between the two parties will be extended into long-term political agreements to strengthen both parties. Already, division has hit both parties which are in support of the yet to be formed Azimio.(edited by Amol Awuor)