President Uhuru Kenyatta has admitted to previously insulting the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga but says things have now changed. Speaking at Sagana State Lodge in Nyeri County on Wednesday where he met more than 20,000 Jubilee supporters from parts of the Mount Kenya region, Uhuru told his community to rally behind Raila. He said even though he has abused Raila in the past, things are no longer the same since they united through the Handshake to push Kenya forward. Uhuru used the occasion to disparage his deputy William Ruto and his allies saying he is determined to restore the dignity of the Mt Kenya region. It is on that backdrop that he backed Raila saying he has the best interest of the country at heart “Yes it's true I used to insult that man (Raila), but I am now growing old and have no energy to insult anyone. We used to do it when we were young people. I have left that to others,” said Uhuru. He added, “I have not come here to insult anyone nor am I working hard for the Country to vote for him to be the President, but to work together for the Unity and peace of this country.” The President opened up on how thousands of Kenyas were affected by post-election violence saying there is a need to unite the country ahead of the August 9, elections. He chided area MP Rigathi Gachagua saying he has a penchant for hurling insults instead of spearheading development efforts in the region. “Even the one who runs this constituency (Rigathi) cannot come here, he can only insult people at the shopping centres without telling them the truth that we have constructed markets, hospitals and roads for them,” Uhuru stated. At the same time, the President directed attacks at some churches for being a party to a group of leaders reaping from the proceeds of corruption. He said the majority of the monies being donated in churches were stolen from projects meant to benefit Kenyans such as dams. “You church leaders, stop lying to our people, tell them the truth. All of us love his or her God. Everyone gives to God what He has given unto him. And we do give offerings,” said Uhuru Uhuru told off the clergy who have been receiving donations from corrupt leaders saying they are destined to go to hell. “Do not come here just because you have been showered with stolen money in order to lie to us. No. You can’t. You can’t come and shower us with stolen money and tell us where we shall go while holding the Bible. You are the one heading to hell, not these people,” Uhuru said. He added, “it’s wrong of you coming here and the money you are eating was meant to construct a Sh3 Billion dam for Elgeyo Marakwet people so that the children of God can drink water and farm. You put it in your pocket and give Sh2 million to the church singing halleluiah.” “It’s better to receive my Sh100 that I have worked for instead of Sh1 million stolen from people denying somebody justice. Let’s stop speaking falsehoods." Uhuru, who appeared to have gone bare-knuckle on his critics, said he fears nobody and that will push for an agenda he deems fit for the country. Edited by B.Marita