Kenya Rugby Union directors, Peris Mukoko and Moses Ndale will contest the position of vice-chairman at next month's elections. Other positions up for grabs include secretary, treasurer alongside two directors' slots in what is shaping up to be a hotly contested election. Thomas Opiyo, who has held the position of vice-chair for the last four years,  is stepping down due to work commitments. Mukoko, who started off as a player for the Kenya Lionesses before becoming a referee and now a board member, has outlined four pillars for her campaign. Key on her agenda if elected will be a clear pathway and development with a special focus on age-grade rugby for both men and women. "We need to cast our nets wider and introduce the sport from an early age, which in turn will feed Kenya under 20, Under 17 for both boys and girls," she said. Mukoko said integrity, accountability and governance will be key if the union is to make strides to attract sponsorship. “It's something that we really need to focus on and bring back the sponsors to the game." Women in Rugby is the third pillar in her manifesto. “World Rugby are putting emphasis on expanding the women's game and we,  as a union, need to make changes to align with development and grow the women's game in the country." She is delighted that there is a league for the women in place. This, she said will help grow the women's game and hopefully enable the national team to qualify for the Women's Rugby World Cup in 2025. “ We are headed in the right direction but much more needs to be done.  I believe with the support of everyone,  we can achieve our targets,” said Mukoko, who is also a referees' educator. Mukoko will also put emphasis on match officials and coaches. "Our officials need to upskill and officiate international tournaments like the World Series. As a former match official, we need to do more together." On his part, Ndale who has been in charge of the women's docket for the past three years said he would like to see more investments in the women's game and a level playing field for all clubs irrespective of whether they play in the Kenya Cup or the championship. Ndale  promised to deliver on his pledges drawing from his experience in various departments at KRU.