Jubilee MPs have warned Kenya Kwanza politicians against insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta during their campaigns in Mt Kenya. Jubilee secretary general Jeremiah Kioni and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said Kenya Kwanza insulted Uhuru during the rally at the Asian Quarters in Nyeri. The two spoke on Sunday in Nyeri accompanied by Jubilee aspirants vying for elective seats. Kioni warned that insulting a leader of a community is a recipe for chaos. “Every community has a mechanism of solving problems through dialogue, but when people come together to insult leaders while their master is there cheering, then that is a sign of danger ahead,” he said. The Ndaragwa MP said it was absurd for Ruto to seek votes from Mt Kenya while using young politicians from the region to insult other leaders. Kioni said, this is a clear indication that Ruto has no good intentions for the mountain. He said Ruto has in the past frustrated efforts to have more money allocated to the community through BBI and in parliament. Kioni called on Ruto and his team to respect the president saying despite his shortcomings, he is still a son of the region. “These people have gone to a level of calling the president a conman and hurling insults in his backyard,” he said. Ngunjiri said Kenyatta is a leader elected by Kenyans and their votes should be respected. The MP said the DP should stop boasting that he made Uhuru president saying Ruto also benefited from Kenyatta to become his deputy. “They should stop chest thumping that they made Uhuru president. Let them know that the president was voted by Kenyans,” he said. Wambugu said Ruto absconded his duties and he should not seek the presidency because he could not deliver in his current office. The two thanked President Kenyatta for the appointing of Kioni as the secretary genera. Kioni said Jubilee will field candidates in all its strongholds. The seats will include those of MCAs, governors, MPs, senators and woman reps. Kioni said politics have officially started on Saturday, during Jubilee party National Delegates Conference. He said President Kenyatta will now be fully involved in politics and will exercise his right to campaign and vote for his preferred candidate.