A 60-year-old Baringo man whose name has been on the MCA ballot for the last 25 years is pleading with the electorate to accept "my last bullet". Job Chesaro, known as Langurati, 60, from Tanyilel village in Baringo North is vying for the Saimo-Kipsaraman  MCA seat. “I have consistently been vying for elective political seats since 1997 but I am still optimistic people will one day entrust me with leadership,” Chesaro said on Sunday. He appeals to the electorate to choose him in the August general election, saying it might be his last chance in politics “as I proceed for my retirement,” he said. He has a paint business and sells timber. He first contested in 1997 to become councillor for Kapteberewo location on a Kanu ticket but was defeated by  County Council chairman Joel Bultut, who comes from his home turf. He then ran for the same seat on Narc-Kenya in 2002 and failed. In 2007, he ran on an ODM ticket; in 2013 he ran for the Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA seat on the URP ticket. He tried the Jubilee party in 2017 and his last shot is the UDA in 2022. He said politics was tough during the Kanu regime, considering Mzee Bultut was a close ally, age mate and a friend of former President Daniel Arap Moi. “Those who were in power or the proverbial 'deep state'  ould decide who will or will not win an election, so I succumbed due to my humble background and poor financial status,” he said. He said he has in his pocket only the Sh50,000 party registration fee. The vocal old man, who appears physically younger than his age,says he has a vision to transform the leadership of his ward and better the lives of residents. “I just want to transparently utilise the public resources to complete projects like water, roads infrastructure and ensure youths get job opportunities,” he said. Furthermore, Chesaro said he is not after the hefty salaries and perks paid to MCAs. “I just want to give my transformative leadership and set the record straight to be emulated by the future leaders,” he said. He said he hasn’t worked as a public servant, nor has he been awarded any government contract, but said he hustled on his own to educate all his children. LOOKING YOUNG AND HAPPY Chesaro said has never won any seat throughout his career but that has never caused him heart or mental illness, saying his secret was that he personally accepted the results and moved on with his normal life. “I had never contested any election results in my life,” he said, adding that politics is always kept temporarily in the lungs but not deep in the heart. He further said he has never sold any of his essential properties like land to campaign, instead said he utilises the meagre savings from his business EDUCATION Chesaro was born in 1962 at remote Kasiber village, attended Moi Primary school Kabartonjo where he did well on his Certificate of Primary Education in 1978. He was admitted to Bartolimo High School. “I never proceeded with my secondary school studies because my father was poor so I lacked school fees, but I believe leadership is not about education, it is all about God-given wisdom” he said. He said in fact, his level of education was unmatched saying he was more learned than the late Mzee Bultut, who only sought connections and favours from Moi. Currently he serves as overall community water resources overseer and Katimok forest Environmental Conservation chairman. “I always believe the entire community trusts me in leadership and they have even shown by voting me across the 32 polling stations, but we haven’t had free, fair and transparent elections” he said. He faces six aspirants, among them MCA John Aengwo, Musa Kiloo, Stephen Cherogony, Joshua Chelang’a, Solomon Barendo and Almaida Ayabei. (Edited by V. Graham)