Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has resoundingly dismissed calls to join the Kenya Kwanza Alliance led by Deputy President William Ruto. In an interview with Citizen TV on Friday evening, the Governor said thoughts of him working with Ruto have never crossed his mind. "I have never even thought of it and I have never imagined that I can join Kenya Kwanza Alliance.," he said. According to Oparanya, the Kenya Kwanza Alliance has a different ideology to what he subscribes to hence there is no possibility that they can team up ahead of the August 9, elections. He said if the only alternative left is for him to work with the DP, then he better quit politics. "You know those people have a different ideology to what we stand for. If I was to join them and that is the only option, then I will rather retire and go home and become a farmer," he said. His response came hours after reports were rife on social media that he is bound to join the DP's camp on Saturday. This is after Western allies of the DP hinted on the second political 'Earthquake' to be staged in Kakamega on the said date with many believing it has everything to do with major defections. The DP and his Kenya Kwanza Allies have scheduled a major rally in Kakamega where they will be wooing the region to back their camp. On ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula joining Ruto's camp, the Kakamega Governor said the move was unfortunate. He, however, said the two leaders have given him an opportunity to deliver the Western Kenya votes to the Azimio team and also establish himself as the region's top leader. "Musalia and Wetangula have been an obstacle to some of us, them moving the other side now gives us a chance to deliver Western to Azimio," he said. He defended the DAP-K party from attacks that it is after dividing the Western region saying it is a better alternative for the Luhya nation. He said the ODM party will address sibling rivalry that may arise while fielding candidates for elective seats other than the presidency so that they can have unity ahead of the polls. "DAP-K has come at an opportune time. We are not competitors; we complement each other because all of us are in Azimio. I work closely with my brother Eugene Wamalwa and I, therefore, see no problem with that," he said.