Operations at the Trans Nzoia county revenue offices were paralyzed on Tuesday morning after security personnel allegedly hired by governor Patrick Khaemba demanded the new director be sacked. The action by the more than 32 security guards who locked both the revenue and the main entrance to the governor’s office halted county operations. “We have locked the gates to protest abuse by the newly posted enforcement director Michael Mutonyi who called us strangers saying he cannot work with us," said a worker who requested anonymity. The workers said they will not relent in their agitation for recognition having been contracted to offer services legally. Other County staff in other departments at the revenue offices were unable to access their offices for the better part of the day. "We never found ourselves working here. It is the office of the governor that brought us here," Paul Situma, one of the guards, said. The chief officer in charge of governance in the office of the governor Pius Munialo allegedly told some of them that a decision had been made to send them packing. The workers vowed to press on until all their grievances are heard adding that they will be seeking redress from the employment and labour relations court. Mutonyi was also blocked from accessing his office at the revenue department. He declined to speak to the media. Trans Nzoia county government workers union chairman Samuel Juma Kiboi faulted the county government’s decision to send away the workers. “Sending away workers who have worked for more than two years is in itself an anomaly on the side of the county government public service board. This matter shouldn’t be handled lightly by some people who sit in a boardroom passing unfamiliar resolutions," he said. Governance chief officer Pius Munialo could not be reached for comment as his phone remained switched off. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba who allegedly entered into an agreement that led to the hiring of the 32 security personnel could also not be reached for comment.