Most tattoos have a story behind them. It can be a tribute to a loved one, a reminder you're a survivor or something cute your child drew for you. However, an underlying meaning is never a requirement to getting inked. One can get a tattoo just because they think it looks cool. What's important is that they walk away from the session happy. Whether it's your first tattoo or eighth, you need to be absolutely sure it's what you want because its removal is expensive and often more painful than getting the tattoo itself. So here are a few things to keep in mind before getting permanent artwork. Be sure of what you want. It's important to have an idea of what you want before booking an appointment. If you want letters/numerals have your preferred font in mind. Have images saved for inspiration so when you go to the shop, you and the artist can figure out the placement and pricing. Design Most people opt for illustration but if you want script alongside your image or standalone, you have to know what kind of font you want. If you see something you like, get a copy and bring it to your artist so that they have a point of reference. Colour Your skin tone plays a major role in how well individual colours will hold. Fairer skin tones tend to hold white, red and purple pigments better. Darker skin tones typically hold darker colours. This, however, doesn't mean you can't get pastels and other light hues if you have a dark skin tone. They just won't appear as pigmented as darker colours would. Note: All colours, including black, fade over time. Size and location Outlines and shapes can look sharp and sleek at first but fade or even blur over time depending on the size and location. If you're still unsure, consult your artist as they know where a certain piece might look better. Tattoos hurt no matter where you have them, but the fleshier the area the less pain you experience. More painful areas include: If at any point the pain becomes too much, inform your artist, a good tattoo artist will give you a breather to get your head in the game. Location and size are also important if you want to hide your tattoo from your parents or your boss. Tattoo aftercare A general rule of thumb is to keep the dressing on for a few hours, especially if you plan to spend the rest of your day out and about. Remember that a fresh tattoo is an open wound, dirt and bacteria can slow the healing process or damage it. Always wash your hands before cleaning them. When cleaning, use your artist's recommended cleanser or a gentle unscented soap. Avoid soaps with fragrance or alcohol as this could cause irritation. After washing, gently pat the area. Never rub as this can pull out the skin and cause ink fallout. If the skin is feeling itchy or dry, use your artist's recommended ointment or a gentle unscented lotion. As with the cleanser, avoid ones with fragrance or alcohol. Skimping on care can delay the healing process and affect how your tattoo looks. If the tattoo starts to flake or peel, don't panic, it is a normal part of the healing process. However, don't pick at it as it can lead to ink fallout. See a doctor right away if you experience: With these in mind, feel free to book your appointment and get that ink you've been dreaming about.