Kenya Airways has appointed Global GSA as its passenger general sales agent for the Italian market. Pursuant to the agreement, from February 1, 2022, Global GSA will manage all the commercial activities in Italy on behalf of Kenya Airways. This includes the support and assistance to travel agencies and tour operators for the reservations and ticketing. Global GSA provides to the Trade with a dedicated telephone line for Kenya Airways 02 36 21 22 23 and the email address kenya-airways@global-gsa.com. Managing Director of Global Distribution Sales and Marketing Patrizia Ribaga said they are proud to represent Kenya Airways in the Italian market as a modern and efficient carrier, well known to offer an excellent on-board service, paying attention to the customers’ needs. "With Kenya Airways, it is possible to reach not only Kenya, that continues to remain a popular destination for Italian clients, but also the main destinations in Africa, through convenient connections offered by the carrier," Ribaga said. Kenya Airways is a leading African airline, based in Nairobi, flying to 42 destinations worldwide - 35 of which are in Africa - and carries over four million passengers annually. Kenya Airways has a very modern fleet of 32 aircraft, including the B787 Dreamliner, its flagship aircraft. It offers renowned in-flight service and the lie-flat bed business class seats, available on widebody aircraft, that has been voted among the top 10 in the world. Chief Commercial and Customer Officer at Kenya Airways Julius Thairu said Kenya Airways is pleased to bring Global GSA onboard as the Passenger General Sales Agent for Italy. "This comes at a time when travel has resumed globally and also follows the recent code-sharing agreement with ITA Airways, which now offers customers greater choice and flexibility. "We look forward to working with Global GSA to offer word class customer service to our customers and grow sales in the region," Thairu said. Kenya Airways operates direct flights to Europe; Amsterdam, London and Paris and from June 8, 2022, will resume the service from Rome-Fiumicino to Nairobi and launch the new route from Milano - Malpensa to Nairobi. The flight will operate on Wednesday and Sunday, with B787 Dreamliner offering 30 seats in Business class and 204 in economy class. The flight will leave from Milano-Malpensa at 17:20, arriving in Rome-Fiumicino at 18:45, departing from Rome at 20:05 with arrival in Nairobi at 05:15(+1). The return from Nairobi is at 10:00, with arrival in Milan-Malpensa at 16:00, departing from Milano at 17:20 with arrival in Rome at 18:45.