The Ministry of Health is targeting to vaccinate one million Kenyans every day within a period of 10 days. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said on Thursday that mass vaccinations will help protect Kenyans in case another variant of Covid-19 emerges. Kagwe was speaking at the official launch of a mass vaccination drive at Riruta, Dagoretti South Sub-county. "We hope this mission will prevent any further deaths due to Covid-19. At the moment, the positivity rate is very low at 2.8 per cent but we have learned that once it goes down, it is preparing for a bigger surge, perhaps in July or August," he said. As of now, 20 per cent of Kenyans have been vaccinated. Kagwe said that they hope this campaign will see over 80 per cent of Kenyans vaccinated. He said that Kenyans are spending a lot of money in hospitals for Covid-19 treatment while getting vaccinated is free. "Kenyans should know that if they don't get vaccinated, they will get the virus and end up incurring extra costs on medication and treatment," he said. Kenyans are still very sceptical about getting vaccinated against Covid-19 due to myths and misconceptions about getting inoculated. 66-year-old Rose Lihavi from Kawangware said that she was afraid of getting vaccinated after her neighbours discouraged her. "They told me that if I get vaccinated, the pain I usually have in my leg will worsen. Today I got my first dose because I want to be safe and protected," she said. 26-year old Alvin Ingosi from Riruta said that he had been jittery going for the jab before because he was afraid of the side effects he would get. He eventually thought it would be better to be safe. Kagwe quashed such myths and misconceptions surrounding the vaccine and reassured Kenyans that it is very safe. With such an ambitious target, the Ministry of Health (MOH) is employing the help of the Ministry of Interior. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said that he has worked with MOH before to ensure Kenyans are safe from Covid-19. "Before, it was ensuring curfew is upheld, masks are worn and public service vehicles have reduced capacities but this time, we will be helping to mobilise Kenyans door to door," he said. He said that the remaining 10 days of the 14-day campaign would see Chiefs, District Commissioners, District Officers, and other Administrative Officers go around their respective areas calling on Kenyans to get vaccinated. "A county like Nairobi has over 159 vaccination centres. Each Administration Officer has a target of their own to get us to the main target of one million every day," he said. So far, Matiang'i said, the first three days have seen 706,000 vaccines administered countrywide. He asked the officers to put more effort into the campaign. The Riruta Vaccination centre located at the Deputy County Commissioner's Office has AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and Johnson and Johnson vaccines available. Justin Kemboi, a nurse at the centre, said that they have enough vaccines on a daily basis. "Today we received 540 Pfizer vaccines, 200 Astrazeneca and Johnson and Johnson vaccines. You can choose which vaccine you wish to get," he said. Approximately 200 people had turned up for the vaccination drive on this particular day.