A boda boda operator was on Friday shot dead by suspected thugs in Mlolongo, Machakos County. Police removed the body of the unidentified man from the scene where he was killed by unknown assailants at the Mwangaza area in Katani location, Athi River sub-county. Athi River deputy sub-county police commander Salim Komora confirmed the 8.40 pm incident. A police report seen by the Star shows that the matter was reported at Mavoko SNP Police station within Mlolongo division as 'Robbery with violence' incident at 8.50 pm. The incident was reported under OB NO: 4/2/2022. "It was reported by one Mr Jimmy Nguvi, a village elder at Katani, Mwangaza area that gunshots were heard within Mwangaza area at around 2040 hrs. Police officers rushed to the scene and established that an unknown middle-aged African male adult believed to be a bodaboda operator had been fatally shot on the head by a gang alleged to be of two men and robbed his motorcycle registration number not yet to be known, who then disappeared to unknown direction," the report read in part. Komora said police were pursuing the gang. He urged members of the public to volunteer information that might lead to their arrests. "Officers are pursuing the gang. The scene has been processed by CSI personnel. The case is pending investigation (PUI)." Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) detectives attached to Mlolongo police station have launched investigations into the incident. A document recovered from the scene and seen by the Star indicates that the owner of the stolen motorcycle had no pending loan for the motorbike. The sale agreement between ROMACHI PIKIPIKI CENTRE LTD and one Gleverance Mbatha Musyoka of ID number 31781390 shows that there was no pending balance for the motorcycle's purchase. "No balance. Bajaj Boxer Model BM1500G, Reg Number KMFZ," the agreement read in part. Two more motorcycles were stolen from Mlolongo on the same Friday night. According to police sources, two motorcycles were stolen from a plot (Masaku Plaza) located at Zone C village in Mlolongo Town. The incident was reported to Mlolongo police station as 'Bodaboda theft' incident. Bodaboda operators threatened to stage demonstrations in Mlolongo and Katani areas over their colleague's murder and theft of the three motorcycles. Mlolongo Syokimau bodaboda association chairman Alex Mutuku said such cases were on the rise in the area and therefore they will protest to ensure a well-equipped police station is established in Katani. Mutuku told bodaboda operators to be cautious especially while working at night and desist from ferrying suspiciously looking clients.