Two suspects masquerading as Anti Corruption officials are currently in police custody, after they stormed into the offices of one Isaac Wandere, a day ago purportedly to investigate a land fraud case. According to DCI boss George Kinoti, the two led by Gordwins Agutu, an alleged serial fraudster who has had previous run-ins with the law,  were arrested after they gained entry into the WanderJoy Party headquarters along Kiambu road. It is there that they began harassing its proprietor demanding a bribe to allegedly go slow on a land fraud case against him, Kinoti said. "The suspects who were driving two top of the range vehicles fitted with strobe lights and well-built men hanging precariously on the vehicles’ doors, forcefully gained entry into the premises causing a scene that left workers scared stiff," Kinoti said. "The self-styled anti-graft director and his accomplice David Mburu, who introduced himself as the anti-corruption deputy director, went straight to Wandere’s office and made their demands without blinking an eye. Detectives based at DCI headquarters got wind of the incident and immediately rushed to the premises, two kilometres away." Immediately after they arrived, DCI boss said, the men who had accompanied Agutu and sealed off the compound posing as VVIP security detail while flashing walkie talkies, scampered for dear life towards Karura forest leaving their master and his deputy in the hands of our sleuths. The DCI revealed that Agutu’s history in fraud stinks to high heaven. When the detectives checked the DCI criminal database, they discovered that Agutu had previously been arrested in September 2017, masquerading as a Senior Superintendent of Police attached to the Criminal Investigations Department. In his possession were two other employment cards, all indicating that he held senior management positions at the Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya Pharmacy and Poisons Board. While masquerading as a surveillance officer in the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, the suspect is alleged to have closed down several hospitals for allegedly not meeting certain regulatory requirements. On January 26, 2022, accompanied by his miscreant gang, Agutu had visited Sidai Oleng club along Kiambu road and attempted to abduct its owner John Ngugi, over undisclosed investigative cases that he was conducting against him. The suspect operates in hired top-of-the-range Toyota Prados, which often use the wrong side of the road with strobe lights flashing on their rooftops and a siren blaring for other vehicles to give him way for his next mission. Detectives have been granted custodial orders to detain the suspect until Monday next week when the suspect will take a plea. Any person who may have fallen victim to the suspect’s tricks is urged to report to the DCI headquarters Serious Crimes Unit to file their reports