Zetech University has started a school feeding programme in Tharaka Nithi county. The institution's VC Njenga Munene said the programme has been initiated at Kibui Primary School and will be rolled out to several other schools within the drought-hit county. Munene spoke on Monday after dispatching cooking pots and channeling funds for the programme to the school management. He said the initiative is part of the university’s corporate social responsibility. The programme aims at eradicating malnutrition as well as promoting education in the region, by ensuring learners don’t miss classes because of hunger. “As the Zetech family, we are driven by purpose and empowerment. If our existence has no impact on this community, then we will have failed. It is important for us to ensure learners do not attend classes on empty stomachs because this affects their productivity. "We are also keen on the nutritional value of the food, because malnutrition can cause chronic illnesses among children.” The VC said most schools in the region are struggling with poor feeding programmes thus experiencing poor enrolment and learning disruptions due to learners skipping classes. “Malnutrition and hunger reduce the capability of learners to concentrate and participate in class. This is why most pupils are absconding classes." "Being a key player in the education sector, it is our responsibility to give back to the community and enhance the lives of others, especially our children,” he said. Munene urged other education stakeholders especially institutions of higher learning which train teachers, to identify schools that are hard hit and assist them with proper feeding programmes. He argued there will be no essence of training teachers if they won’t be able to impact the lives of pupils. “There is no point of sending teachers to teach underfed and malnourished learners. These teachers will not be able to deliver their mandate and will be of less impact to the learners’ academic lives,” the VC said. Kabui Primary School head teacher Esther Kithinji hailed the university for the noble initiative. She said poor feeding programmes had resulted to school absenteeism and a deteriorating academic performance. “We have been grappling with dietary challenges and this makes it hard for our pupils to be in school. The situation has affected both teaching and learning at the school. "We are now confident that the students will have a reason to smile as we continue to empower them and give them healthy meals so that they concentrate and perform well,” she said. A recent survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that more than 29 per cent of children in rural areas struggle with malnutrition. Some 20 per cent in urban areas also struggle with malnutrition, while 23 million children go to school on an empty stomach. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)