Chama Cha Kazi party is yet to decide whether to join the Azimio La Umoja movement or  Kenya Kwanza Alliance, party leader Moses Kuria has said. Azimio la Umoja is led by ODM leader Raila Odinga while deputy president William Ruto is the defacto leader of Kenya Kwanza Alliance. In an interview with Citizen TV on Wednesday night, the MP, who before hospitalisation was hobnobbing with Ruto, said he needs time to understand both camps before choosing which way to go. Kuria noted that the two political outfits were born while he was still in the hospital adding he is yet to fully keep abreast with their agenda. “There is much more to understand before making such decisions. I think people should be fair to me and my party before asking me to support one side or the other side because we just need time to understand,” Kuria said. The MP, however, admitted he belonged to the Hustler movement when he was leaving the country for medication in Dubai but said he is now in the dark about how Kenya Kwanza was born. “I wanted to form a coalition with UDA and UDA were very categorical that they were not for alliances. Now I see posters of UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya. I assume that ANC, Ford Kenya are parties from Uganda. I await for them to come for parties from Kenya," he said. He said his party will have to make decisions not only for the leaders but also for the country as well. The MP added that there is a need to reduce tension in the country which has been caused by the 2022 political formations. "I'm fearing that if the two gentlemen meet in the washroom and one is from Azimio and the other one is from Kenyan Kwanza, they can even run away." He divulged that his party will not be forced to join an alliance saying they can opt to approach the August 9, elections alone in the event they fail to get a like-minded formation. Kuria will host a prayer day on Saturday at Thika Stadium to celebrate and give thanks for his recovery. All the presidential aspirants have reportedly been invited. Edited by B. Marita