Nyali Golf and Country Club pro-golfer, Bhavi Shah, will lead the Kenyan contingent to the 2022 Magical Kenya Ladies Openset for February 10 to 13 at the 18-hole PGA Baobab Course at Vipingo Ridge, Kilifi County. Bhavi, who returns to the tournament after featuring in the inaugural event in 2019, will fly the Kenyan flag alongside amateurs golfers—Naomi Wafula, Mercy Nyanchama, Chanelle Wangari, and Faith Chemutai. Wafula and Nyanchama will also be making their sophomore outings at the tournament, with Wangari and Chemutai making their debut this year. Wafula finished the event as the highest-ranked Kenyan in 2019, having carded a total of 13-over par 157 after 36 holes to finish tied in 87th. On her part, Bhavi ended her maiden Ladies European Tour (LET) campaign tied in 98th and will be looking for a more robust finish this year. Commenting on the forthcoming event, she said: "I am very excited that the Magical Kenya Ladies Open is back after a two-year break. I would like to thank all the sponsors and the hosts, Vipingo Ridge, for making the event possible and extending a special invite." Bhavi said: "I started preparing for this event late last year. I have been undergoing a  structured gym routine,  range work, and sharpening the short game." Bhavi, who for the second time will be the only Kenyan pro golfer at the event, will be hoping to floor a host of other participants drawn from different countries, including Germany, Spain, India, France, Finland, England, South Africa, among others. Wafula, a former Kenya National Ladies Golf champion – is savouring the challenge ahead. "I am glad I will be participating and competing among some of the top female golfers in the world at a Ladies European Tour event. I am currently down at Vipingo practising for the event, and I am ready and looking forward to it," she said. Wangari, 15, will be looking to carry her recent top form into the event, having been crowned the 2021 Ladies Amateur Match Play Champion in September at an event held at her home club, Vet Lab Sports Club in Nairobi. The win came on the backdrop of yet another triumph in February that year when she was crowned the Kabete Ladies Open. A field of 96 players will take to the course for a chance to be crowned the LET 2022 season opener winner at the Magical Kenya Ladies Open.