Deputy President William Ruto has responded to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s recent criticism of him and his allies donating offerings from suspicious sources to churches. Addressing Nyeri residents on Saturday, Ruto said his religious journey dates back from time immemorial and it is not a recent vocation. Ruto said he owes his successes to God and that he will remain loyal to the almighty no matter how he is criticised. “We are the ones who made Uhuru the president, please respect us,” Ruto said. He continued that: “Wengine wanalalamika eti tunabeba Bibilia, tafadhali mutusamehe. Bibilia hatukuanza kubeba jana. Tumekua tukibeba bibilia kwa miaka nyingi bana. Na ni kwa sababu ya hiyo Bibilia ndio tumefika mahali tuliko na penye tunaenda. Poleni sana kwa kuwakera kwa kubeba Bibilia." Ruto added that he won't be cowed and intimidated in his religious journey even as he asked the Azimio leaders to spare the church in their attacks. “Even if you don’t like giving the offerings, please respect the altar, even if you don’t like building churches, respect church leaders. This nation belongs to God. Let us not say bad things about the men and women of God.” Ruto also asked Azimio to leave the president out of the 2022 succession politics. “ We have assisted the president to get a solid legacy in SGR, ten thousand tarmacked roads, electricity connections. Please, don’t belittle the office of the president to come and be involved in small parties here and there,” Ruto said. “Azimio people, plan your politics minus Uhuru Kenyatta because in any case, you have not contributed anything to Uhuru Kenyatta being the person he is today.” During the Sagana 3 meeting in Nyeri county, the president warned those who have been wooing churches with corrupt money that their place in hell is reserved. Uhuru took on church leaders accusing them of being beneficiaries of proceeds of corruption. “Even church leaders should stop telling lies to our people. Let's tell the truth, you are being given 3 billion meant for Kimwarer and Arror dams meant for the children of God, then you come to mislead us,” Uhuru said.