One would expect that radicalisation, violent extremism, insecurity, drug abuse and other vices can only be fought by the police and military. However, in Lamu a group of over 100 artists called Lamu Arts Theatre Alliance-Lata have joined hands to fight all these vices through tantalising performances of song and dance. Drawn from various genres, each of these artistes bring on board their unique field of specialisation that is intertwined to beam a message of peace, calm and love for all irrespective of religion or tribe. The group has spent the last eight years traversing Lamu county spreading the gospel of unity and sanity in a region perceived to be a hotbed of radicalisation and drug abuse. Through various forms of folk literature that includes songs, dance, oral poetry, drama, skits, prose, plays, and acrobatics, Lata director Said Hassan says the group has created awareness in the Lamu community. Below is an excerpt from a poem written by Hassan titled 'Epuka maovu kwa ubora wa jamii zetu' loosely translated as avoid crime and enhance community prosperity. Usalama kaditama nausema wazi wazi, yatupasa kusimama....tufanye ndio kazi...tukomeshe majambazi.( I speak openly about security because it is our responsibility to end crime). In the last verse the poem highlights on the drug menace that has bedevil the county. Mihadarati hakika ni sumu ya wako mwili......utakuja fadhaika hata kukosa akili( drugs are poison to your body.....you will regret or even  run mad). He further added that this has been possible through activities like exchange of knowledge, first-hand experiences and approaches in countering all forms of violent extremism and other ills. “Our target audience is mainly the youth who are adversely affected by radicalisation and drug abuse. We formulate our songs and dances with carefully crafted messages to both entertain, educate and deter,” said Hassan. The Lata group has a total of 125 members;84 men and 41 women, most of who are dancers, acrobats, singers, dramatists, poets, storytellers among others. In their quest, the group has been able bring aboard national government officials, political and religious leaders and the local community representatives to promote a peaceful, tranquil and safe society for all. The proximity of Lamu county to the Somalia border has aided radicalisation and violent extremism and made it easier for many to easily cross the country to join al Shabaab. It is for this reason that the region is under constant surveillance from security agencies over the high number of radicalised youth who may want to cause chaos. Hassan however said their art has rescued hundreds of youths trapped in drugs and radicalisation. “Our performances mostly carry messages of terrorism, drugs and other societal issues like early pregnancies, FGM and so on. We are doing well by our mandate and proud to report progress,” he said. Hassan however says the threats of the war they fight through their performances remains real and called for concerted efforts from all stakeholders. He says Lata’s objective is not to provide solutions to the situation but rather to persuade affected residents into making the right decisions that will propel Lamu to greater heights. “The reality remains in sharp focus and it is obvious that more needs to be done to end radicalisation, drugs and violent extremism in the county. Meanwhile, we dance away our messages to the hearts of our audiences,” said Hassan. Lata  programs manager Linet Apondi says their objective has to a large part succeeded because over the years, the number of drug users and school dropouts has drastically dropped. She notes that mental health remains another hurdle which Lata continues to address through their performances. She encourages people to speak up and get help instead of making the wrong decisions like suicide or joining criminal gangs. “We have slowly been able to penetrate the hearts and minds of people of all ages with our messages by putting a smile on their faces for the betterment of society and self,” said Apondi. She said the youth of Lamu and Kenya have a choice to make on whether they will use their talent to lead a honourable life or make decisions that will cost their lives and the peace of Kenya. “Go to school, get some papers and do something with your life but above all be patient because nothing good comes fast. Don't be in a hurry to fall prey to crime and terrorism because it won’t end well,” she said. Lata patron Hajji Shibu has challenged young people in Lamu to take advantage of the numerous opportunities offered by the county and national governments to better their lives. “We have free scholarships for school and college. We have massive projects coming up that promise a high employability rate. There are no shortcuts to a good life. It’s all grit, persistence and sweat,” said Shibu.