Kenya needs to invest more in information communication and awareness within communities to win the war on cancer, stakeholders have said. Health experts say despite efforts by the government to lower the rising cancer burden, inadequate staff to provide screening services, inadequate staff training, poor infrastructure and lack of information and awareness continue to hamper prevention, treatment and management of the disease. However, the stakeholders said the fight against cancer in the country is on the right trajectory. This emerged during a two-day national cancer stakeholders' retreat that brought together officials from the Health ministry, Council of Governors and the private and public sector. Data shows the annual incidence of cancer increased from 37,000 to 47,887 new cases and mortality rose from 28,500 to 32,987 between 2012 and 2018. “There is a major role for all of us in placing preventive health as a central pillar to our health services, cancer included. Let's focus on the new UHC and NHIF and see how they can work together to support primary healthcare to deal conclusively with cancer,” Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said. Nyong’o is the CoG Health committee chairman. Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital board of directors chairperson Olive Mugenda said the number of cancer specialists in the country should be increased to complement ongoing government efforts. The facility hosts the first Integrated Molecular Imaging Centre and Hospitality centre. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said prioritising the achievement of UHC remains a critical pillar of the government's strategy for sustained socioeconomic development. “Cancer control is a wide area in public health programming, which requires interventions at various stages of the cancer control continuum, ranging from prevention and early detection to treatment, survivorship and research,” Kagwe said. Cancer is the third leading cause of death in the country after infectious and cardiovascular diseases. A number of cancer deaths are as a result of infrastructural and resource limitations in the health sector. Data shows that the survival rate for cancer patients in the United States and other developed countries is 80 per cent compared to just less than 30 per cent in Kenya, majorly due to late diagnosis. “Primary healthcare workers play a critical role, especially in the area of screening and early diagnosis,” acting director general of health Patrick Amoth said.