YouTuber Natalie Tewa says she has never dated any person social media has linked her to. The travel Vlogger has been subject to various rumours since publicising her relationship with Ugandan ex-boyfriend Rnaze Mukiibi. Natalie was then alleged to be dating Mombasa Governor  Hassan Joho. Speaking exclusively to Word Is on Friday, she said people have always assumed she is dating men she is spotted with. "People have always lied that I am dating this and this person but to say the truth, I have not dated any of those people you have linked me to," she said. Natalie said with all the allegations, nobody has ever presented evidence of them getting cosy or displaying affection. "Even by having a business meeting with someone, it turns out that Natalie is on a date. Guys need to relax coz there is only one person," she said. "It's so crazy, you know. Coz (sic), if you are sitting with a guy and probably is a cousin, a friend or even you are in a business meeting, why should you judge them?  Yet you have no evidence of them maybe getting physical or something like signs showing affection, why should you say they are dating?" she posed, adding that she has nothing to clarify or defend herself. "If people want to think what they want, there is no problem. I will never go online to try and defend them," she said. Natalie said she is a sucker for love and a relationship girl. "I am always in a relationship. For now, I have been single for one and a half years. I am somewhere there and looking to get married. There is someone very new and we are just taking things slowly." "I wanted like 10 children when I was young now am late for 10. I am like, where is the man to give me 10 kids. I now want to push five. But the way things are going, let me just have three or four. I love kids and I love nurturing." About why she took a break from social media last year,  Natalie said she was tired of people being too much in her life. "I was putting my life there for my fans thinking we are together. It was not worth it. But because of my passion, I am back and the reception is higher," she said. She urged 'keyboard warriors' to be mindful about people they troll online. "This is another human with emotions and they might be affected," she said.