Watford’s new manager Roy Hodgson conceded there will be plenty of ‘what am I doing’ moments after the 74-year-old watched his side grind out a 0-0 draw away to bottom club Burnley in a Premier League basement clash on Saturday. Standing in the rain and wind at Turf Moor on Saturday evening, a soaked Hodgson could have been excused wishing he was back at home on a warm sofa. But for a man who lives and breathes the game, it was clear he was delighted to be back in the old routine as he tried to cajole Watford — the 17th club he has managed in a much-travelled career — to a vital victory. In the end, a point apiece in a game low on quality did little for either side’s hopes of avoiding relegation although Watford did edge above Newcastle United into 18th spot, one point behind Norwich City with a game in hand. “I’m realistic enough to know that as happy as I was to take up the offer, there will be plenty of times I will think ‘what on earth am I doing?’ And I’ll deal with those when they come,” former England manager Hodgson said. While there was little to cheer the away fans on a bleak evening, a first Premier League clean sheet in 31 games offered some comfort for Hodgson. “It’s a really difficult place to come. I don’t think many will look forward to games against Burnley,” Hodgson said. “I’m pleased with the way the players went about their work. “They showed great spirit, great determination and I think they showed everybody that they still care very much and they rolled their sleeves up. “We know unless we defend in the way we did today — being compact and aggressive in our pressing — then you won’t get clean sheets in the Premier League. I thought this was a stern test after only 10 days with the players and I thought they dealt with it very well.” While Burnley have games in hand on the teams above them, their failure to score goals is now becoming critical, although new signing Wout Weghorst did offer some threat. A 10th draw in 19 league games was greeted with some boos at fulltime and manager Sean Dyche knows that his side need to start picking up victories soon. “It’s important we change these draws into wins. We play two top sides next but that’s the way it goes,” said Dyche, whose side face Manchester United and Liverpool next week. “We’ve been strong in the second half of the season historically but we have to go and do that again. “We’re one point better off than we were at this stage last year which might not sound a lot, but it may be crucial come the end of the season.”