At least eight aspirants have lined up to battle it out for the Trans Nzoia governor seat that will see a big clash of the two leading coalitions. Ford Kenya and UDA belonging to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance and DAP-Kenya affiliated to Azimio La Umoja are laying claim to the cosmopolitan county. Those eying the seat include former Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, businessman Moses Khaoya and former TSC official Philomen Samoei. Others are former Trans Nzoia Finance chief officer Ben Wanjala and Dorcas Njenga. Khaoya, son to the late assistant minister Joseph Khaoya, will be going for the seat for the second time having contested it in 2017. Dorcas will be trying her hand for the first time after decamping to Natembeya’s camp where she had been promised the deputy governor's position. Samoei, who hails from Kwanza constituency, will also be running for the first time. Although its a crowded race, the contest is seen as political battle between Natembeya and Wamalwa. Wamalwa is Ford Kenya secretary general and a close ally of party leader Moses Wetang'ula. Natembeya, a veteran administrator, on the other hand, is a close ally of Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and will be running on a DAP-K ticket. Agriculture Executive Boniface Wanyonyi, a close ally of outgoing Governor Patrck Khaemba who had initially shown interest, has since bolted out and thrown his weight behind Natembeya. Legal Affairs adviser in Deputy President’s office Abrahim Sing'oei and former ICT and Infrastructure Special Secretary Maurice Kakai wa Bisau, both who had expressed interest, are also out of the race. Bisau is going for the Kiminini seat to replace Wamalwa while Sing’oei is said to have agreed to concentrate on the presidential campaigns for his boss. Eugene Wamalwa who was expected to vie for the seat has declared support for Natembeya. Natembeya’s entry in the race has caused jitters, with some fearing that he might have the blessings of Governor Khaemba believed to have solid grassroots support. Khaemba and Wamalwa parted ways politically. “He [Natembeya] is one of those trusted by Governor Khaemba’s inner political cycle and the governor has a soft spot for him than anyone else," a close ally of the governor who declined to be named told the Star. "Actually, the governor is behind his bid and he has the blessing to inherit his seat." The post of the running mates is still haunting all the gubernatorial aspirants, with Natembeya having received a list of possible candidates from the Sabaot community. They include Milka Psiwa, Eunice Chelimo, John Mengwa, David Butaki, Jonas Kuko and Aliwin Sasia alias Lisa. The same headache is challenging Chris Wamalwa who is torn between giving the the deputy governor job to either a Sabaot or a Nandi. The Marakwets are also fronting their own for the number slot of the county. A section of the Sabaot council of elders are solidly behind West Pokot chief officer of Trade Milka Psiwa as Natembeya's running mate after the administrator hinted at choosing a woman from the Sabaot community. However, professionals drawn from Nairobi and Trans Nzoia have settled on Stanley Kirui, 34, the youthful pilot with the East African Airlines, for Natembeya’s deputy as a compromise candidate. Wetang’ula-led Ford Kenya, which has partnered with Ruto’s UDA and Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC, is behind Wamalwa. Wetang’ula has openly referred to Wamalwa as the ‘next governor’ of Trans Nzoia, an indication his party could hand a direct ticket to him. Political pundits, however, say that the Trans Nzoia race is not easy to predict due to its cosmopolitan nature. “Trans Nzoia is a cosmopolitan area and many do not want to elect a leader leaning towards certain communities," Dennis Wambalaba, a political commentator from Saboti constituency, said. "They want a leader who will unite all the local tribes and ensure equality." He still commands support across various ethnic communities in the area. He also enjoys support from a section of boda boda riders, elders and Mama Mbogas. Ben Wanjala is another man to watch in the race having worked in the financial docket as a chief officer. The August race will be his first attempt. “You cannot underestimate Prof Wanjala. He has experience in the game and still commands support across the ethnic groups in the county," Maina Wasanga, a political strategist, said. The ethnic card could play out in the race as there are considerable Kalenjin residents in the county. With the UDA, Ford Kenya deal, the Kalenjin factor could be a plus for Wamalwa. Analysts say that Eugene’s support for Natembeya gives the him an equally bigger chance to clinch the seat. In the past two elections, the Bukusu community ran away with most of the seats. However, there was also negotiated democracy in 2013 where the Sabaot were given the Senate seat, the Nandis took deputy governor slot and the Bukusus the governor job. Trans Nzoa is a rich agricultural county with a voting population of more than 230,000. The issue of local farmers, including poor pricing for farm produce, have taken centre stage in the campaigns.  (edited by Amol Awuor)