Wearing rings is part of making your jewellery stand out. However, every ring on a finger is symbolic, whether on the left or right hand. We start with the thumb, followed by index finger, middle finger, ring and finally pinky finger. Every ring on a finger sends a message on your marital or social status. Left Thumb It’s rare to find anyone wearing a ring on the thumb. However, it would symbolise a person’s inner self. Wearing a ring on the left thumb is thought to help the owner develop mental strength. Right Thumb This style indicates a person’s wealth and social influence on the people. This is more symbolic in terms of social status and not marital status. Left Index Finger A ring on the index finger reflects power and the spirit of leadership. Years ago, members of royal families would wear rings on their index fingers. Members of the community who are perceived to be vulnerable would not wear rings at all. Right Index Finger In Judaism, the right index finger symbolises marriage. During conventional Jewish wedding ceremonies, the groom would put the wedding band on the bride’s right file finger. Left Middle Finger When you’re engaged, you wear the ring on the middle finger of your left hand. The tip of the heart should face away from the body. Once you get married, you turn the ring around so the tip of the heart faces the wearer. Right Middle Finger A ring on the right middle finger represents the personal identity and a form of soul searching. Left Ring Finger The left ring finger is reserved for wedding and engagement rings in many cultures. However, it also shows the wearer is in a committed relationship. When married, the woman wears both the wedding band and engagement ring on the left ring finger. The wedding band is stacked first because it’s closer to the heart. Right Ring Finger Single people often wear rings on their right ring finger with the tip of the heart facing away from the body. People in a relationship wear the ring with the tip of the heart facing the body. Pinky Finger In the early 20th century, married men would wear their wedding rings on their left pinky fingers accompanied by the man’s signet ring.