At least three high-flying Cabinet Secretaries have decided to forgo their political ambitions so as to play pivotal roles in President Uhuru Kenyatta's transition period. In a surprising move, Ukur Yatani (National Treasury), Peter Munya (Agriculture) and Mutahi Kagwe (Health) have opted to continue serving in Uhuru's government until the end of his term. The three were some of the most influential CSs with political backgrounds whom Uhuru tapped to steady his administration after they lost the 2017 polls. It was therefore expected that the trio would be among their four colleagues who have resigned since Tuesday to plunge into politics ahead of the August 9 general election. Charles Keter (Devolution), John Munyes(Petroleum) and Adan Mohamed(East African Community) quit on Tuesday while Water CS Sicily Kariuki resigned on Wednesday. They are all set to run for governor in their respective counties. However, the decision by Yatani, Munya and Kagwe to snub elective politics has exposed their influential place and role in the President's succession plans. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and his Defence counterpart Eugene Wamalwa are some of the key CSs believed to have shelved their political ambitions and stuck with Uhuru. On Wednesday, former Cabinet Minister Franklin Bett told the Star the three Cabinet Secretaries will be critical in helping the President execute his political plans. "They are politicians and the fact that they have opted to remain tells you that the President trusts them a lot during the transition period," he said. The three, considered key Cabinet pillars of the President's Azimio La Umoja plans, are expected to step out to push for Uhuru's succession schemes. On Wednesday, Munya lifted the lid on the intrigues behind his decision to drop his Meru gubernatorial ambitions. Munya, who is the Party of National Unity party leader, said he will support the gubernatorial candidate in Meru county under the Azimio La Umoja movement. “We want to strengthen leadership between PNU and Azimio la Umoja as we craft a working relationship. I want to put my energy in supporting Azimio so that we can win the coming election,” Munya said. The governor was expected to challenge Governor Kiraitu Murungi in an effort to recapture the seat he lost in 2017. “I have come to a conclusion that at this point in time, it’s not best for me to vie,” Munya said. His decision is also seen as a plot to keep Kiraitu in the Azimio train as his entry into the governor race could have rattled the governor to jump ship. Munya is a tough talking CS who has been critical of Deputy President William Ruto and is seen as the President's point man in the vote-rich Mt Kenya East region. He enjoys massive political following in the region and is expected to play a key role in Raila’s campaigns in the President’s backyard. Yatani, on the other hand, was widely expected to run for Marsabit governor job, a seat he lost to Mohamed Ali in the 2017 polls. Due to his influence, he was apparently tasked with locking the entire region and pastoralist communities for Raila. He has already crafted a massive political machine – Upya Movement – that has rallied nearly all crucial political players and the region behind the ODM boss. In interview with the Star last December, Yatani said that he would not abandon the President, adding that he holds a crucial docket – the Treasury - that will fund the electoral activities. CS Kagwe, who was expected to quit and contest Nyeri governor, is a senior government official and a seasoned politician from Uhuru's Mt Kenya turf. Kagwe said he cannot resign to join politics and abandon Kenyans in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, a task he said the President hired him to address. “I was called to this government just over two years ago by President Uhuru Kenyatta to serve in this specific capacity, and for whatever reason, I happened to be there when Covid-19 hit us and it is still there,” he said. He went on: “As long as the situation is the way it is, as long as it is the President’s pleasure that I serve in this capacity, I don’t feel inclined to resign and do anything else." The Elections Act requires civil servants seeking elective seats in the August 9 election to resign six months to the poll, which falls on February 9. Political observers said the move by the three cabinet secretaries demonstrates the critical role they play in the President’s political deal with ODM leader Raila. Some two principal secretaries, nine chief administrative secretaries and a host of other top government officials also quit. On Wednesday, Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga, Transport CAS Chris Obure, Interior CAS Hussein Dado, Sports CAS Zack Kinuthia resigned. They joined their six colleagues who quit on Tuesday. Salaries and Remuneration Commission commissioner Dalmas Otieno resigned to vie for Migori governor. David Musila resigned as chairperson of the Board of Museums of Kenya to run for Kitui governor.  (edited by Amol Awuor)