The Mumias Sugar Company lease case may now be heard by a three-judge bench if an application filed on Monday is allowed. Mumias Outgrowers Company filed an application seeking  a three-judge bench to be constituted to hear the matter which they argue raises substantial questions of law. The case was supposed to begin Monday before Justice Alfred Mabeya, but the hearing was adjourned so that he can hear the new application by Mumias Outgrowers first. Mabeya said there was a possibility that the hearing would be disrupted if the court later allows the application for constituting a bench. He directed all parties to file their responses to the application by tomorrow noon so that the application can be heard first. In the application, the company, through lawyer Maureen Odeck, has asked the court to order for a bench since the suit raises substantial questions of law. “[F]orthwith directs that the matters be placed before the CJ [Chief Justice] for appointment of a bench of uneven number of judges being not less than three judges,” the application read. They further argued that the case of great public concern to warrant the empanelment of a bench of an even number of judges being not less than three under Article 165(4) of the Constitution. They want the file be referred to the CJ for the constitution of a bench to hear and determine the suit. It is their further argument that the administrator of the Mumias Sugar relied on the decision of the court issued on November 19 last year in the insolvency case to illegally lease and hand over possession of the assets of Mumias Sugar to Ugandan firm. “The matter in issue in this case relates to the revival of the industrial gem of the Western Kenya and any verdict is to affect over one million Kenyans hence this matter is of great public interest,” court papers said. Odeck said that, in view of the scope and sensitivity of the matter and considering how it was transferred by Justice Wilfrida OKwany for further directions by the presiding judge, its important to shield court from undue pressure by having the matter heard by a bench. “Further, there are several matters which have been filed in various courts on the same subject matter and this court ought to shield itself and other courts from an embarrassing situation of having conflicting judgment over the same subject,” the company said. In the case, WestKenya Sugar Limited has opposed the decision by Mumias Sugar to award the lease to Sarrai Group, arguing that they were the highest bidder but the administrator awarded Sarrai who was the lowest bidder. The application will be heard tomorrow.  (edited by Amol Awuor)