Yonah Kisaka, 33, alias as Gift, has defied all odds and joined the Township MCA race in Kanduyi constituency, Bungoma. He is seeking to beat incumbent MCA Joseph Magunda. The seat has so far attracted aspirants from various political parties while others are running as independent candidates. In an interview with the Star, Kisaka said he decided to join politics because he wants to work for Township residents and represent people with disabilities at the county assembly. “People with disabilities have been neglected for long. It’s high time I take up this leadership and fight for their interests at the assembly,” he said. Kisaka urged people with disabilities not to pity themselves, but instead  find ways of surviving and making their lives better. He said he runs a cybercafé business in Bungoma town where he has opened up employment opportunities for two young people. “If you have a child with a disability, don't hide him/her. Take them to school, they all stand a chance to lead this nation. Top leaders in the country are almost retiring and we are the ones to replace them,” he said. Kisaka said he has stayed in Township for over 15 years, and he is well-versed with the problems and challenges that residents face. He said if given the chance to serve as an MCA, he will give priority to education, security, infrastructure and initiate programmes to empower youth. “The main problem facing youth countrywide is lack of jobs. If elected, I will liaise with other leaders to find ways of funding youth groups, women groups and boda boda riders,” Kisaka said. He has been attending youth and women's groups, church sessions and boda boda Saccos to drum up support for his bid. “Now that the government has not legalised political rallies and some civil servants have not resigned from work, I will still hold my small meetings to ask residents to vote for me,” he said. He also said he will ensure that funds meant to help needy students are well-distributed across Township ward. “We have seen many students from Township ward lament that they are out on bursaries. If given a chance to serve, it will be my first issue to address because I value education so much,” Kisaka said. He decried lack of security lights in Bungoma town and asked the county government to instal some, so traders can have adequate time to run their businesses. “We want Bungoma town to be like other big towns in Kenya. It’s my humble plea to the current county leadership under Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to put plans in place and ensure that security lights are installed,” he said. Kisaka asked the IEBC to ensure that elections are free and fair in the August 9 polls. On party issues, Kisaka said he is still consulting on which party to seek the Township MCA seat. “As things stand, I have not gotten a favourite party to join but soon I will be announcing the vehicle I will board to vie for the MCA seat,” he said. Edited by A.N