ODM leader Raila Odinga has promised massive change if elected president and trashed Deputy President William Ruto’s credentials to turn around the country’s fortunes. Raila rubbished the DP’s claims that he is a State project, terming the remarks as nonsense. Addressing the joint Narc and Muungano parties’ delegates convention at the Bomas of Kenya on Friday, the former prime minister termed the DP a hypocrite known for fighting reforms. Raila said the DP tirelessly fought the new constitution that ushered the devolution, a new dispensation that has changed the country. “He said this constitution was bad. Now he is saying he will protect it, that the constitution is now good. What has happened? Hypocrisy,” he said. The Africa Union special envoy said the DP, his main challenger for the August 9 general election, cannot bring the real change that he is promising Kenyans. Raila, who jetted back into the country, Friday after a 10-day trip abroad, dismissed Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza brigade claim that he was a government project in the upcoming polls. He said he is a self-made politician who has held senior positions in government, including that of a prime minister and ran for presidential elections and won. “I have been the prime minister and a government official how can I be a project? That is rubbish,” he said. Raila said he will bring about the real change–the third liberation as the county’s economy needs massive reshaping to rescue millions of Kenyans battered by it. He said he will introduce a social protection programme for every poor household to get Sh6000 stipend every month despite the criticism it has received. “We promised free primary education and we brought it. Even this one of social protection, we will introduce it whether they like it or not,” he said. He promised to defend devolution and unite the country if he clinches the seat. Narc leader Charity Ngilu her Muungano counterpart Kivutha Kibwana whose parties held joint NDCs, supported Raila’s bid saying, the ODM boss is a true liberator who can be trusted to change the economy. “We had only two options. We could either decide to go on our own or decide to team up with the coalition to safeguard the interests of the ordinary Kenyan and win the next election,” Ngilu said. Kibwana listed 10 reasons why they opted to drop their bid for the ODM boss. He said Raila is a liberation hero who fought for multiparty democracy, a true defender of the constitution and devolution and a fighter of corruption. Several leaders including Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa, Gender CAS Rachel Shebesh, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and Nairobi’s Anne Kananu attended the event. “For me, the choice is clear in this election.  Kenyans will decide between a progressive force and retrogressive forces that have plunged the economy to its knees,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris