Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his defence troops to put nuclear weapons on high alert as he claims the US and her allies are advancing in an 'unfriendly' way. This is according to a New York Times Monday briefing. His remarks come after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced that he will have talks with the Russians at the Ukraine-Belarus border. As this unravels, the United Nations Security Council held a meeting on Monday morning over Ukraine and warned Putin to maintain peace, promising more economic sanctions if Russia ignores the warning. The US has further announced its provision for humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainians who are highly affected by Russia's continued invasion. During the meet, Russia cited that the UNSC had failed in their duty and had not maintained international peace and security. New York Times reported that the Russian representative at UNSC claimed that the organization is subjective towards Ukraine and unbalanced, the reason why Russia blocked a draft on Saturday. And Ukrainian president said he did not believe in the outcome of this meeting. “I do not really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try, so that later not a single citizen of Ukraine has any doubt that I, as president, tried to stop the war,” Zelenskiy said as quoted by The Guardian. The official website of the Kremlin, the office of Russian President Putin, has further stated that UNSC has not advocated for any solutions in the ongoing disputes. Putin denied the Ukrainian claims that so far 352 civilians had lost their lives since Russia's first attack on February 24. The report also claimed that Russia has lost 4,300 troops. Zelensky, in a televised address, reported that he and his counterpart from Belarus had a phone call which resulted to the plans of a talk between Russia and Ukraine with no preconditions. "The agreement states that the Ukrainian delegation will meet the Russian delegation at the Ukraine-Belarus border with no preconditions," Zelensky stated. This will be the first talk since Russian started an invasion on Ukraine last week.