A commercial court has suspended a decision requiring Evans Kidero to pay the taxman Sh427 million. The amount was to be paid as tax after the former Nairobi governor failed to prove that the funds targeted were raised for campaigns. Justice David Majanja issued the order pending the hearing of an application by Kidero set for March 1. Kidero has also challenged the decision by Majanja at the Court of Appeal. Kidero in the application says he is dissatisfied with the whole decision and that the tax claimed is grossly excessive. A week ago, Majanja set aside a decision of the Tax Appeals Tribunal which found that the evidence provided by Kidero to prove the source of the funds was sufficient. Kidero had claimed that he had received the monies from donors as political campaign funds which are not chargeable to tax. Justice Majanja after scrutinising the list provided by Kidero said It does not show how Kidero collected from each donor much less that he collected Sh423 million from the people named on the lists. The list provided showed names and telephone numbers of persons who Kidero alleges contributed to his political campaign. "I come to the conclusion that Kidero failed to discharge his burden as the evidence on record could not support such a conclusion reached by the tribunal," he added. Kidero in the set of documents filed before the Court of Appeal says Majanja was mistaken in finding that he did not provide evidence to show that donations received in his account were disbursed in campaigns. This is despite acknowledging that it can be difficult to document most campaign expenses considering the nature of political campaigns in Kenya. He says Majanja blundered in reaching the conclusion that he ought to have provided receipts supporting campaign expenditure which include activities like fundraisers, mobilisation and donations which are essentially in cash. "The judge misapplied the law by placing an obligation ordinarily placed on businesses to keep accurate expense records despite acknowledging the expected difficulty in providing receipts for political campaign expenses," he says. The former county chief faults the judge for ignoring  the peculiar circumstances of election campaigns in Kenya being that most expenses are disbursed in cash. Kidero further argues that KRA had the liberty to confirm that the money was collected from the list he provided with telephone numbers of the contributors. He also criticises the judge for finding that the investigations into the political campaign funds was fair despite evidence of discrimination. Kidero says no other political aspirant was subjected to taxation of political campaign funds.