Some 18 Nyamira MCAs have endorsed ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire’s bid for governor. The MCAs resolved to back Bosire after a meeting at his Nyamwanga village home in Kitutu Masaba on Monday. The lawmakers were led by speaker Moffat Teya, Majority leader Duke Masira, Minority leader Dennis Kebaso and deputy speaker Robinson Mocheche. “After listening to his 10 point vision for Nyamira, we resolved to back his bid. We have heard a very fruitful engagement with Bosire and we believe he is the right candidate to steer this county to greater heights,” Masira said. “We are here as MCAs drawn from various political parties. We have agreed to support Bosire's quest regardless of our party affiliations,” he added. Esise MCA Joseph Nyarang’o said, “I’m not an ODM member at the moment but I want to assure you that I will vote for you and other candidates allied to Azimio la Umoja.” Bosire welcomed the endorsement from the MCAs, saying if he clinches the seat, he will not let the people of Nyamira down. “I’m happy that the entire Nyamira assembly leadership came here for a consultative meeting. We have had a very good engagement and agreed to walk together in the spirit of Azimio la Umoja,” he said. “I’m ready to become the third governor of Nyamira. I will work with these leaders to improve the livelihoods of Nyamira people,” he added. He said if elected, his will focus on accountability, fighting corruption, fair distribution of development resources, establishment of cottage industries, improvement of road networks and agriculture. The ODM treasurer will on Wednesday and Thursday hit the campaign trail. He is expected to traverse West Mugirango, North Mugirango and Borabu. Bosire launched his campaigns two weeks ago at Viongozi Pastoral Center in Kebirigo, West Mugirango. The event was graced by Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, Narok Senator Ledama Olekina and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed who also endorsed Bosire. In a race that is expected to be a battle of titans, four former MPs Bosire, Walter Nyambati, Mwancha Okioma and Joseph Kiangoi have declared their interest. Others in the race are Governor Amos Nyaribo and Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. Nyambati launched his bid on Sunday at Rigoma in Kitutu Masaba constituency. MP Shadrack Mose attended the function and endorsed Nyambati. Nyambati will battle it out for the UDA ticket with Kiangoi, who is a former North Mugirango MP. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)