The Kenya Ports Authority has begun the process of constructing a Sh1.81 billion truck marshalling yard at Malaba border in Busia county. The new yard is aimed at eradicating the incessant traffic congestion along the highway and at the border point. KPA acting managing director John Mwangemi on Friday unveiled plans for the project which will facilitate trade and offer a permanent solution to the traffic gridlock in the region, which sometimes extends up to 50km. “Upon completion, the marshalling yard will remove the trucks from the road, improve efficiency at the border point while improving the welfare of the drivers,” Mwangemi said. According to the designs of the new yard, it will include an administration block, a welfare centre, ablution block, a clinic, and boundary wall and security gate. The clinic will offer the mandatory Covid-19 testing, which will also be undertaken in liaison with the Ugandan medical personnel. Last month, there was an 11-day stand-off between truck drivers and Ugandan authorities at the Malaba borders points over Covid-19 clearance. Hundreds of truck drivers were stuck at the border points protesting new Covid-19 regulations and testing fees charged by Uganda. Uganda demanded fresh tests for all drivers before crossing the border at a cost of Sh3,600, despite the drivers having been tested in Kenya upon embarking on a trip. Uganda also sought fresh tests after every seven days, despite Covid-19 tests being valid for 14 days. However, due to pressure and congestion that stretched over 70km, the Uganda's Ministry of Health temporarily suspended the mandatory Covid-19 testing at the Malaba border. KPA said the new marshalling yard that will be constructed on a 22-acre  land, will resolve congestion once and for all. On Friday, the acting KPA boss, who was accompanied by general managers Eng Vincent Sidai and Captain William Ruto toured the land to confirm the project’s viability and also ensure there’s no encroachment on the land. The terrain at the plot is flat with a gentle slope at its southern tip. There is also a plantation of mature eucalyptus trees ready for harvesting. Earlier the MD toured the small ports of Victoria and Sio where the local provincial administration, county government Executives and the community assured the authority of cooperation during the planned port developments. 