Supporters of Arsenal are worried because Gunners carried out no business during the January transfer window. I tackled my sources to explain the club’s plan of inaction. The thinking is that because Arsenal are out of the FA Cup and the Carabao Cup, they have only one game per week. This prompted the departures of six players, surplus to Mikel Arteta’s requirements, including Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. However, no replacement has been signed. The club failed to bring in Dusan Vlahovic from Fiorentina which fans are questioning because Arsenal are very thin upfront and a push for a top four Champions League qualification place looks in danger given they have scored only one goal in five January games. Injuries or Covid could ruin a potentially successful season. I have been told that big money will be available in the summer to sign a first-class striker and midfield tactician. Thomas Partey controls the midfield at present but Granit Xhaka and Albert Sambi Lokonga are not one hundred per cent trusted given Xhaka’s troubled past and Lokonga’s inexperience. Fullbacks are in a good place with Gabriel and Ben White and William Saliba on his way back from a loan period at Marseille. The wide options include Bukayo Saka, Emile Smith Rowe, Gabriel Martinelli with Martin Odegaard working in the centre. In the forward line both Alexandre Lacazette and Eddie Nketiah are out of contract in the summer and I am told their deals are under consideration but no decision as to whether they will stay has been made. CONTE RULES AT TOTTENHAM Players at Tottenham know exactly where they stand with manager Antonio Conte. He has special words that either delight players or fill their hearts with fear. If Conte says “I can count on him” the player knows that all is well. But if Conte says nothing or “I can’t count on him” then it is goodbye because the manager rarely changes his mind. Conte now has considerable influence with chairman Daniel Levy and Managing Director of Football Fabio Paratici and what Conte wants they try to provide. The transfer period has proven this point because although Harry Winks and Steven Bergwijn have not been regular starters this season, Conte says he can 'count on them' and they have stayed at the club. Conte said he “could not count on” Tanguy Ndombele, Giovani Lo Celso, and Dele Alli, and they are gone. Conte will not stand for dressing room individuals who try to undermine him and throw their weight about and he absolutely will not tolerate anything less than 100% effort. Ndombele for instance was singled out to train alone with what was described as “specialised conditioning treatment’. Those words put fear into other players' hearts. The January transfer window was important for Tottenham but the summer is when the club will really get to work on Conte’s plan and he will be pulling the strings. WHY ALLI MOVED TO  EVERTON The reason Dele Alli chose Everton over Newcastle, despite taking a medical at the Black & Whites, was because during the transfer window Newcastle had shown little interest in signing him. Their preference was for United’s Jesse Lingard. Everton bringing in Frank Lampard as manager convinced both Alli and Donny van de Beek that the club has great potential and ambitions. Newcastle have all the money but it is Everton who won the day.  TUCHEL DID NOT RUSH INTO JANUARY SIGNINGS Chelsea decided not to rush into the transfer window and buy a back-up for injured Ben Chilwell. They contacted Lyon to get Emerson Palmieri back from his season-long loan but his contract with the French club has no recall clause so they could not demand his return. Thomas Tuchel gathered several of the club’s hierarchy together for a strategy meeting and they decided against bringing in a short-term replacement which could cause problems in the future. Instead, Tuchel has decided to continue with his current squad.  LUIS DIAZ PUTS A SMILE ON JURGEN KLOPP’S FACE Transfer day deadline came and went and several clubs were satisfied with their deals but none more so than Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp. Signing Luis Diaz was the icing on the cake for Jurgen, who had instructed his scouts to watch him throughout the season. The Reds wanted to sign him last summer but Porto did not play ball (excuse the pun!). The Colombian joined Liverpool for a £37.5million down payment and an add-on package deal which could cost another £12.5million. Klopp said this week, “I could not be happier that we have been able to get this deal done and Luis will compete for his place in the forward line alongside Mo, Diogo, Sadio and Roberto who will possibly leave at the end of this season. He is an outstanding player who we have been tracking for a long time. When we played against Porto earlier this season, we saw what a danger he is, how fast he is and how his mental strength could help his team.” Diaz will wear the number 23 shirt and has scored 41 goals in 125 senior matches for Porto and seven goals in 31 matches for Columbia.  LAMPARD ALREADY MAKING A DIFFERENCE Frank Lampard likes to play a 4-3-3 formation but his inherited Everton squad was unbalanced and he hopes to bring in Donny van de Beek and Dele Alli will rectify that problem. He recognizes that he does not have the quality of players he managed at Chelsea and neither does he have emerging Everton talent to match Chelsea’s youngsters such as Mason Mount, Reece James, and Tammy Abraham when they moved up from the Academy at Stamford Bridge. Abraham is now thrilling crowds at Jose Mourinho’s Roma. Everton’s Academy is nowhere near Chelsea’s level which was a complaint put forward by Rafa Benitez. The fans were behind Lampard from the moment the coach's job became vacant and painting Lampard support signs on nearby buildings helped him secure the coaching job. “Pereira Out, Lampard In” they shouted. Benitez never enjoyed such loyalty because of his previous connections to bitter rivals Liverpool. CITY SIGNING IS GOOD FOR UNITED’S CAVANI Manchester City’s signing of River Plate forward Julian Alvarez is perfect for United’s Edinson Cavani. The City have done a deal that runs until 2027 and Alvarez will be allowed to continue playing for River Plate on loan until the summer. Pep Guardiola says he is an investment for the future and a long-term replacement for Sergio Aguero. Edinson Cavani’s deal finishes with United at the end of the season and he becomes a free agent and can play wherever he chooses. Argentina’s River Plate is his chosen destination, although there is interest from Spain. The release of Alvarez allows River Plate more flexibility to match Cavani's expensive wages. He earns £250k a week at United.  WEST HAM FAIL TO IMPROVE SQUAD The transfer period has been frustrating for David Moyes and West Ham. They set their sights high. Benfica rejected a bid of £50million for Darwin Nunez, bids for Leeds forward Raphina and his teammate Kalvin Phillips have both failed and the Hammers have ended the transfer period without a major signing.  IT FEELS LIKE HOME FOR CHRISTIAN ERIKSEN AT BRENTFORD Danish superman Christian Eriksen was training alone at Dutch club Ajax when his mobile phone rang and his agent told him that Brentford had made inquiries about signing him. Feeling stronger and motivated, he joined the Ajax reserve team training and was impressive. He wanted to prove he had fully recovered from his cardiac arrest and was fully able to continue his career. Moving back to the Premier League will aid his ambition to play for Denmark in the World Cup which was more than he could ever hope for. Strenuous medical tests on his heart examined the successful surgery which wired a pacemaker that pulsates and corrects any irregular heartbeats. Christian said, “If Sabrina (his partner) has said that she didn’t want me to continue with my footballing career it would be a very different situation. We had a trauma since June last year but we have found our bearings so that Sabrina is OK with me going to the gym for a few hours and to the practice field. She trusts that when I leave I will come back.” Christian will feel at home at Brentford where he joins nine Danish players and a Danish manager.  AUBAMEYANG’S MOVE TO BARCA Although Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s Arsenal exit was much publicised, Barcelona only pulled off the deal with four hours to go in the transfer window. Arsenal were anxious to lose their former captain who earned £300k a week and was never going to play for Mikel Arteta again after breaking several club rules including extreme lateness for training. Both Arsenal and Auba agreed to tear up his contract which had eighteen months to run. The deal worked for all sides as he was keen to leave and join Barca where he has family in the Spanish Catalan city. Barca were trying to do a deal whereby Ousmane Dembele would move to Arsenal but he rejected the plan. NEWCASTLE FAILED TO ATTRACT THE BEST I now fear for Newcastle as their expected super spend in January was very frustrating and low-key. Yes, they spent £90million, which is more than any other club, but they failed to attract the main players that manager Eddie Howe wanted. There is no doubt that Brazilian defensive midfielder Bruno Guimaraes is a solid signing from French club Lyon however the failure to secure Jesse Lingard from Manchester United and Dele Alli from Spurs is a major blow to their chances of survival in the Premier League. Burnley’s Chris Wood and Atletico Madrid’s Kieran Trippier are decent signings but Howe wanted increased creativity. Noted as the new Kylian Mbappe, Reims 19-year-old forward Ekitike got as far as the airport and changed his mind, refusing to board the plane to Newcastle which had been specially arranged for him. Newcastle did however manage last-minute deals for Brighton’s Dan Burn and completed a loan deal for Matty Target from Aston Villa. My own thoughts are that these new signings are good players but not good enough to get Newcastle out of the relegation dilemma they are in. 