Ukambani governors have said they will do everything possible to mobilised their electorate in support of the Azimio la Umoja political band wagon. Governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and their Kitui counterpart Charity Ngilu said the community must be in the next government having been in the cold for the last ten years. The trio said Azimio la Umoja is the way to go and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga will be the fifth president. They spoke during a joint press briefing at Maanzoni Lodge Hotel in Athi River, Machakos County on Saturday. In what looked like an indirect attack at Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, the leaders said it is high time the OKA principal joined Azimio la Umoja without unnecessary conditions before it was too late. The governors spoke after holding a consultative meeting with professionals, business community, alongside other leaders at the hotel in what was dubbed as 'operation Kamba Nation back to government'. They declared that Azimio was the way to go as a Kamba Nation. "The Ukambani professionals have said a time has reached for our people to have good life. We fought for our people to have good life. We fought for democracy to benefit from fruits of devolution," Mutua said. "We have been out of government as a community for over 10 years. We are ready to work with people who are ready to work towards improving Kenyans' lives," Mutua said. He accused Kalonzo of siting aside instead of making a decision to join Azimio. "We know that it is not that they are waiting to think first before they join Azimio, but they are waiting for money. We already know that they have demanded Sh3 billion," Mutua said. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader accused Kalonzo of auctioning the Kamba community for his own personal interests. "I have evidence that earlier years, they also demanded for money. They have asked for money several times and they were given, " he added. Mutua said as a community, they will unite with the intention of casting their votes in one basket for the presidential seat. The governors said they will from next week start traversing the three counties inspecting development projects as they campaign for the Azimio la Umoja ahead of August 9th elections. "We thank professionals, business community alongside other leaders who have been meeting for a while now to help the Kamba community forge forward, " Kibwana said. He said the professionals were part of those who had met Raila in Nairobi, they all said Azimio was the way. "This is to show that our community has gotten the way and the way is Azimio. When we get to Raila's government, these professionals will take a list for our people to benefit since they know talents within the community," Kibwana said. He said time for individuals to take lists to the government was long gone, that can't help the country. Kibwana said development must be lobbied for in the government. "We are working together as three governors. If we commit our people to Azimio, then it's a done deal, " he added. "We aren't saying Azimio for no reason. Azimio for us represents the devolution agenda because we have seen Raila fight for the constitution, multipartysm, democracy and even the things he says, one of them is to strengthen the devolution," Kibwana said. Kibwana said if devolution was well implemented, Kenya would be good to go. Ngilu said proscanation was never allowed in politics and leadership. "Having been out of government for ten years, all of us in the community want to be in the government. Leadership is about guiding people on the right track where people can benefit, " Ngilu said.