Former Bumula MP Bifwoli Wakoli has asked the government to revert devolving of health services to the national government. Wakoli, who is a Ford Kenya party aspirant for Bumula parliamentary seat in August polls, said counties have no money to pay doctors and health consultants. Speaking at Musese NG-CDF offices when MP Majimbo Kalasinga was disbursing admission letters to KMTC students, Wakoli revealed that the devolution of the health services to counties has given the devolved units a huge burden. "The devolution of the health services has greatly hurt health ministry exposing Kenyans to suffering," he said, adding that some Kenyans are unable to pay NHIF cards. He added that if elected as MP in the August polls, he will present a bill before the floor of the house to propose the health services be taken back to the national government to ease service delivery. Wakoli revealed that Kenya is losing its top brains to other countries due to poor payment in most of the health facilities in Kenya. “After health practitioners graduate from Colleges and Universities they focus on international countries to seek jobs because in Kenya they will be paid poorly,” he said. Chwele- Kabuchai MCA Barasa Mukhongo said that Bungoma County gets Sh. 12b  annually but claimed the status of health facilities in counties are in a poor state. “The Executives in the health department have really let us down because they started engaging in politics a long time ago. The health docket should be handed back to the national government,” he said. Kabuchai MP Majimbo Kalasinga lauded the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) for accepting their appeal in supporting youths from his constituency to join various medical colleges in the country. “I have held several meetings with the KMTC management so that youths who want to join medical colleges of their choice and pursue courses,” Majimbo added. Majimbo affirmed that the 232 from Kabuchai will receive funding from NG-CDF adding that he will continue supporting poor but needy students to access education.