Trade unionists from across Africa are meeting in Nairobi to strategise on their upcoming elections, even as reports indicate that some members died due to Covid-19. The meeting being hosted by Cotu-Kenya in Nairobi also seeks to look at the future of trade unions on the continent and explore how they can work together. The elections include that of the Trade Union Congress general secretary, the International Trade Union Confederation general secretary and the International Labour Organization director general Cotu and other African trade unions have thrown their support behind an African candidate for the ILO director general Gilbert Houngbo from Togo. The elections for the ILO director general position are set to be held on March 22 in Geneva. “The trade union movements on this continent, as everyone is aware, are facing unprecedented challenges, particularly after Covid-19,” Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli said on Friday. Atwoli, who shared his own experience when he was hit by the Omicron variant in December last year, reiterated the need for labour leaders to go back to the drawing board and reinvent themselves to see how to get things working. “What worries us more as labour leaders is how we are going to gather back our momentum. Like in my union, we lost so many members, particularly in the agriculture sector,” he said. “The hospitality industry was the worst-hit and we haven’t resumed 100 per cent the way we used to operate. In EPZs we lost so many members and most employers have taken advantage to outsource and work on contracts that are not known to the trade union movement.” The ILO is a UN agency that brings together governments, employers and workers from 187 member states to set labour standards, develop policies and devise programmes promoting decent work for all women and men. The main aim of the ILO is to promote rights at workplace, encourage decent employment opportunities, enhance social protection and strengthen dialogue on work-related issues. The unique tripartite structure of the ILO gives an equal voice to workers, employers and governments to ensure the views of the social partners are closely reflected in labour standards and in shaping policies and programmes. “Where the meeting is going to take place will be physical and nobody will allow a situation where they will tell us to vote virtually or use any technological means to vote so nobody will shave our heads in our own absence. We will be there to make sure that the right thing is done,” Nigeria NLC president Ayuba Wabba said. The unionists attending the meeting are from countries such as Nigeria, Senegal, Ghana, South Africa, Togo, DRC, Guinea, Mali and Rwanda.