Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba on Thursday resigned and pledged allegiance to his new boss, Deputy President William Ruto. Namwamba stepped down a day after Ruto appointed him as the Head of International Relations in his presidential campaign secretariat. The former Budalang'i MP said he communicated his decision to President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday, thanking him for the honour and privilege of appointing him to the position. He said he had accepted the invitation by Ruto and was ready to work for him. “I will bring a lot of experience to this position. I have served as a Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports in the Grand Coalition government. I have [also] been a two-term MP during which I got the opportunity to serve in critical parliamentary committees,” he said. Namwamba added that he was happy to be part of the Deputy President’s team, adding that Uhuru handed him over to Ruto when he gave him the CAS job four years ago. “In the run up to 2017 election, Uhuru told me to help him get another term and thereafter help his deputy succeed him," he said during a media briefing. "In simple words, he handed me over to Ruto and I am a very consistent person.” He said Uhuru got several hundred votes in 2013 general election and when he joined Jubilee in 2017, the Head of State got over 11, 000 votes. “It was the same place, same man. In 2017, you could not mention Uhuru in Budalang'i but I campaigned for him and the results were good,” he said. Namwamba said Budalang'i “is now a lot softer” than in 2017 and it will be easier to sell Ruto in the area and other regions. “We have already loosened the grip ODM had in Western and Ruto will perform incredibly well,” he said. Namwamba added that he will be responsible for mobilising support and even funds for the Ruto campaign from well-wishers abroad. The former lawmaker said his team will soon launch a foreign policy strategy. Namwamba added that he had developed close relations with many people and organisations across the world in the course of his work as minister and MP. “This will give me the ability to spread the gospel of William Ruto internationally and increase the number of friends Ruto has abroad.” He also clarified that he is not eying an elective seat in the forthcoming election. Namwamba was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta as Foreign Affairs CAS in January 2018. He is seen as a strong Ruto supporter and ally and, on several occasions, has endorsed him as the fifth president,a decision he claims to have been reached due to the DP’s ideologies and political plans for the country. In 2016 he resigned as the ODM secretary general, on grounds that the party lacked internal democracy and he felt powerless in most of the decisions made. (edited by Amol Awuor)