Jubilee Party will work hard to retain its status as the largest political party in the country in the August 9 election by winning many seats, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has said. He added the party is targeting to bag 100 MPs and 60 per cent in each of the elective seats of MCAs, governors, senators and woman representatives. Wambugu said President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is also the party leader, has taken personal responsibility to ensure that that is achieved. He further said the party will fight hard to ensure it recaptures every single seat of members who defected to other parties. “What we will be doing moving forward is replacing every person that we have lost [through defection]. Every seat that Jubilee won in 2013, we will try and get it back by getting another person,” he said. Wambugu added that there is the assumption that the people who are in office are the ones who will be in office after August, saying there could be totally new faces. Though the party will not be fielding a presidential candidate, it is looking for like-minded partners like former Prime Minister Raila Odinga-led Azimio la Umoja movement so as to continue with Jubilee’s projects, he said. “So when we speak about working together with them (Azimio), we know that there is going to be a continuity in terms of the work that is going to be done.” “We share ideals and principles. They have a problem with corruption, public theft and they have a problem with insults like us,” he added. He trashed as false the perception that UDA was dominant in Central, saying the party has only one elected MP in the current Parliament, and that all the people claiming they are in UDA are still in Jubilee. Wambugu further said they have stuck with Jubilee because they knew if they left, they would lose in by-elections. The MP said UDA has been campaigning all through and time for Jubilee to start its campaigns has come, adding that the party will go to the grassroots beginning this week and revive its networks which still exist. Wambugu spoke at the Nyeri Youth Empowerment Centre in Nyeri town when he distributed bursary cheques to Form 4 students. More than 1,400 Form 4s are set to benefit. He added the distribution exercise will turn to Form 1s, 2s and 3s, including universities and colleges. A total of 8,500 learners will benefit from the CDF bursary, which has a budget of more than Sh45 million. University students will each receive Sh10,000, college students Sh7,000, boarding schools Sh5,000 and day schools Sh 2,000.  (edited by Amol Awuor)