Deputy President William Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza Alliance brigade raided Vihiga county for a series of campaign rallies on Friday. The DP visited the area to grace ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's homecoming at Vihiga cultural grounds a fortnight after he declared willingness to work with him. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, a principal of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance, was also present. The leaders first attended a church service in Emuhaya before they embarked on a series of rallies across Vihiga county which will culminate in a mega rally in Mbale town. The leaders drummed up support of their camp even as they exuded confidence that they will clinch the presidency come August 9, elections. They also used the platform to castigate the ODM leader Raila Odinga saying they have backed him enough times. Ruto, in his address, said he has no problem with both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila saying he has backed them before. "I have backed both Raila and Uhuru for the presidency. I have no problem with them at all. But this time I am after addressing the needs of the hustlers," he said Mudavadi on his part said: "We are tired of supporting Raila, it's time we part ways. If they cannot support us we shall talk with voters to stand with us come August 9, general elections". Wetang'ula shared similar sentiments with his colleagues saying they have backed Raila enough times and asked Western residents to put him aside this time around. "There are people we have been siding with but they are not grateful for our support. We back them but they end up treating us like trash," he said. The three Kenya Kwanza principals were accompanied by MPs allied to their faction. The MPs include Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Majimbo Kalasinga (Kabuchai), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Charles Gimose (Hamisi). Others are Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop), Yusuf Chanzu (Former Vihiga MP) a host of MCAs and aspirants.