Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o is facing a political battle pitting him against Ken Obura, who is emerging as his main challenger for the governor seat. Nyong'o will face off with Obura in the ODM primaries in what observers say would be a titanic contest. Obura is the immediate former East Africa Community CAS and ex-Kisumu Central MP. Each camp has embarked on aggressive mobilisation targeted at reinvigorating its bases. Obura believes he is best suited to be the next governor. His candidature was boosted last week when former Governor Jack Ranguma, former speaker Onyango Oloo and Senator Fred Outa picked him to face Nyong’o. Ranguma, Outa and Oloo were all interested in the seat but settled on Obura. The trio hopes to convince their supporters to back Obura. In the 2017 elections, Outa backed Nyong’o who defeated Ranguma. He was viewed by Ranguma’s camp as a traitor who went to bed with the enemy. Outa has since apologised to his supporters for supporting Nyong’o in the last polls. Outa and Ranguma belong to the vote-rich Kano clan which is a critical bloc for all the gubernatorial candidates. Muhoroni and Nyando have members of the Kano clan dominating. According to IEBC 2017 register, Muhoroni constituency had 69,091 voters while Nyando had 71,680 registered voters. Seme had 53,555, Nyakach 68,884, Kisumu West 74,000, Kisumu East 81,538 while Kisumu Central had the highest number of voters at 120,023. Obura who is from Kano hopes to get support from Muhoroni and Nyando constituencies and share votes from Kisumu Central to bolster his chances against Nyong’o. Nyong’o is eyeing Kisumu West, Seme, Nyakach and sharing the rest with his opponents. Obura has been campaigning on the platform of righting the wrongs of Nyong’o’s administration. He has particularly been using the demolitions by the county government to pave way for the regeneration of the lakeside city as his campaign tool. “We don’t want a situation where big investors are favoured against the small scale traders who operate from Kiosks,” he said on Monday during a telephone interview. “My administration will ensure we encourage investors to come to Kisumu, and the interest of the small scale traders is taken care of because most people are employed through this sector.” Obura said if a trader is to be relocated, then an alternative site must be identified to accommodate those displaced to ensure the informal sector continues to provide jobs to the unemployed. “Health is a devolved function but Kisumu has performed dismally. Patients can’t get basic drugs,” he said. The former legislator said it was unnecessary to have improved physical infrastructure that doesn’t match service delivery to patients. “We must address the plight of our health care workers, and end the persistent strikes by medical personnel. They must be promoted and collective bargaining agreements honoured,” he said. However, Nyong’o appears more determined to upset his opponents in his bid to retain the seat. On Monday, his bid was boosted after more than 1000 party delegates from across the county declared their support for him. Gathered at Tom Mboya Labour College, the delegates endorsed Nyong’o to run for the second time to complete projects he initiated in his first term. The delegates included MCAs led by speaker Elisha Oraro and ODM MPs Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central), Aduma Owuor ( Nyakach),  James Nyikal ( Seme) and Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga. Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch, though not a delegate, attended the meeting to confirm his support for Nyong’o. The governor has already won the support of four MPs out of seven. Those backing his reelection include Olago, Nyikal, Ouda and Aduma. Missing from the Monday meeting included Shakil Shabbir (Kisumu East), Onyango Koyoo ( Muhoroni) and Jared Okelo( Nyando). Shakil said he won’t endorse any of the candidates, and it is the people who will decide who to elect. Koyoo said he was not available for the meeting because he was engaged elsewhere. “The voice of the people through the delegates have expressed confidence in his leadership,” Aduma said. Nyong’o rode to office on a platform of development and a commitment to ensure prudent use of public resources. He promised to roll out village councils and hire village administrators to entrench devolution. Nyong’o is credited with having brought financial discipline to the county offices. He restructured the procurement department and kicked out cowboy contractors who would win tenders and deliver shoddy jobs. During Nyongo's tenure, megaprojects have been executed, by his administration and the national government. In October 2020, Nyong’o unveiled a free health insurance cover for the vulnerable modelled around UHC called Marwa health insurance scheme. Over 45,000 vulnerable households across Kisumu were enrolled in phase one of the initiative, which is being implemented by NHIF. Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga said Nyong'o will prioritise the completion of Kibuye market and evacuation of Kachok dumpsite before the lapse of his first term. Edited by Kiilu Damaris