Africa Zone 3 Boxing super heavyweight champion, Elly Ajowi, says he is confident of retaining his title at the next edition of the games scheduled for Tanzania in April. But even as he prepares to defend the title he last clinched in Kinshasa, Congo in March, Ajowi's big headache is how to fend off the threat posed by his chief nemesis Maxime Yegnong Njieyo. Ajowi outclassed Maxime in the final bout to cruise to the winner's podium after both of them surmounted bruising challenges from representatives of seven countries. However, Ajowi insists he is not experiencing sleepless nights as the D-Day closes in, adding that he has been punching furiously on the bag as he sharpens his talons with his eyes firmly trained on the title. “Maxime is someone I've fought for a long time and I no longer consider him a big threat. I'm convinced I'm well prepared for the tournament,” said Ajowi. The Kenya Police constable has underscored the need for members of the Hit Squad to grace more tournaments ahead of the zonal showdown, adding that participating in the East Africa Boxing Championship a fortnight ago enhanced their standards. “Given we are now way above contesting in the national novice and intermediate competitions, we need to find other ways of gauging our standards before departing for the forthcoming regional and global shows,” said Ajowi. Ajowi says he has been refining his skills by sparring with some of the finest pugilists in his weight category. “Personally, I feel privileged to have two sparring partners — Joshua Wasike and Edwin Okongó, who continue to play an instrumental role in shaping me up ahead of the forthcoming championships,” said Ajowi. The 38-year-old boxer reiterated his desire to retire after the 2022 Birmingham Games. “I intend to retire immediately after the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in July. I believe I have already achieved quite a lot and it's a high time I created some room in the ring for budding boxers,” he said. Ajowi, whose medal hunt at the 2020 Tokyo Games ended in heartbreak after he crushed to Cuba’s Julio Cesar La Cruz on points at the preliminary stage, says he hopes to strut to the winner's podium in Birmingham as he eyes one last vintage performance to end his career on a high. “I look to defend my title at the next Africa Zone 3  Championships in Tanzania. A good performance there will lay the ground for my medal hunt at the Africa Boxing Championships in Cameroon as well as the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in July,” said Ajowi. The soft-spoken burly pugilist who clinched both editions of the inaugural President Jamal Cup in Nairobi and Kisumu respectively says he hopes to mentor the youth of Dandora where his humble beginnings can be traced. “Upon retirement, I'd like to help develop youths from Dandora where my career began,” said Ajowi.