Residents of Machungwa village in Kiminini sub-county in Trans Nzoia county have protested failure by police officers to arrest suspected killers of a 22-year-old girl. The residents claim 22-year-old Lourine Waswa was murdered in cold blood by people who had accused her of stealing Sh6,000 belonging to a woman brewing illicit alcohol, commonly known as chang’aa. They accused police officers attached to Bikeke police station of protecting the chang’aa brewer who together with the three men she allegedly hired to attack the 22-year-old. According to the villagers, the deceased was called by her sister-in-law Ann Wekesa after the three people visited their home demanding that she shed light on the lost money. The family said the deceased, Waswa, was beaten by her neighbours and three men who were accompanied by the chang’aa brewer. "We are demanding for the arrest of the chang’aa dealer. The police are not taking any action,’’, said Moses Wekesa. The residents told the Star that Lorene’s parents offered to give them a cow but they could not hear of it “They insisted that they must teach my sister a lesson. They took her to their homestead and began beating her,” Boniface Wanjala, the brother, said. Wanjala said after realizing that they had killed her, they rushed her to the nearby clinic to make it appear like she had died while receiving treatment at the facility. She was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital. “The deceased was found to be dead when she arrived here. We referred the matter to the police who transferred her body to the morgue,” George Wafula, a nursing officer at the clinic, said. Residents have raised concerns about the failure of police to arrest the suspects accusing them of trying to cover the matter. “After the incident, the police are handling the matter in a manner that appears the girl was killed by a mob justice,” Patrick Wafula, the girl’s father, said Centre for the restoration of human rights and democracy Executive director Kefa has condemned the incident and asked the police to act on the matter. Trans Nzoia county police commander Jacinta Wesonga denied the allegations and said the chang’aa brewer was arrested and arraigned on Wednesday for murder. He said three other suspects are still on the run. “The chang’aa brewer has already appeared before a Kitale Court. The three suspects are still on the run but I wish to remind them that they can run but will not hide forever," said Wesonga. The body of the deceased was taken to Kitale county-level four morgue awaiting an autopsy.