A petitioner has blamed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for delays in tackling corruption in Gem constituency. The petitioner, Charles Onguko said EACC has been slow on the inquiry on the Gem National Government Constituency Development Fund tendering despite numerous petitions. Onguko claimed that EACC Western regional office and DCI have dragged their feet to investigate several complaints submitted to their office even as public funds continue to be unaccounted for. In his petition dated February 15, 2022, he regretted that public funds continue to be lost in Gem NG-CDF yet the government agencies tasked with the responsibility have turned their back or choose to be part of the pilferage. The petition is written to EACC Western region boss George Oira, copied to Chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak and Gem subcounty DCI amongst others. "So for how long should we wait and how much more cash should we lose for your office and other government agencies to take action?"he said. "EACC has also been complacent to act on complaints despite supplying them with relevant documents and names." He appealed to the board, EACC and DCI to move swiftly and averts loss of more funds more so during the campaigns periods. "We want thorough investigations and those found culpable be prosecuted," Onguko said. This follows the collapse of a building at Aluor Girls secondary school. He said it was a growing concern that since the building collapsed seven months ago, no government agency has condemned or investigated the same, creeping up concerns that nobody will be held accountable. Onguko demanded that the commission make public name and details of the tendered company as registered in the National Construction Authority bill of quantity by the time the building collapsed. He also wants to know the role of NCA in different construction stages and if they at any time raised a red flag. He further inquired if all the regional authority offices had in any way attempted to cover up or sanitise the collapsed project , and if money has changed hands as is believed. Onguko called for recovery of public funds lost in the projects and demanded action taken against all those involved. He also demanded EACC to furnish him with information on the investigation into various complaints in the management of public funds by Gem NGCDF including that of Sagam primary school, which he personally lodged. Onguko further expressed disappointment in how EACC has handled the Sagam primary school construction complaint, noting that three years down the line nothing has been done. "It is unfortunate that your office has been dragging its feet in fighting corruption in the Gem constituency," he said. "I am aware that your office has received several documentation, complaints of Gem NGCDF projects, tender and procurement." Onguko also called for investigations into the much hyped training of bodaboda riders in Gem which allegedly cost about Sh42 million yet eight years down the line the riders have no licenses. The petitioner has further written to the NG-CDF board over public outcry of mismanagement of Gem NGCDF, demanding action against those responsible. He said it was in public knowledge that audit queries have been raised on the affairs of the funds with little action from the board. At the same time, Onguko said the board was invited to act on the tendering process in Gem constituency which is done in total disregard of NG-CDF Act, but the invitation was in vain. EACC Regional boss said they will act on the matter when he receives the petition. "The letter might have been submitted to the office and I have yet to come across it," Oira said. "There is a process to be followed. Give me time to go through it before giving more briefs." A letter in possession of the Star indicates that the petition was received and stamped on February 17, 2022. Further, a source at the EACC office revealed that the matter has been delegated to an officer, with action yet to be taken.