Tanzanian artist Diamond Platnumz has been criticised for using Confederate flags in his new music video Gidi. Confederate flags have long been connected with the oppressors of the Black population in the United States of America. Diamond's use of the flags in his film makes him appear to be a supporter of Black oppression. In his latest music video, Diamond is dressed as a cowboy with two Confederate flags placed above him as he dances. Wakazi, a well-known opinion shaper in Tanzania, asked Diamond to abandon the scene in his message. He further questioned whether Diamond was aware of what the flag stands for or if it had been added without his knowledge. Wakazi also advised African artists to familiarise themselves with other cultures before aping them in their work. He admitted that it was a smart approach to reach a wider audience, but warned that such blunders could backfire. "Diamond may lose all of his American ties over such a minor issue as a flag. If feasible, he should change the video or issue a statement clarifying that it was not intended; however, the market for Diamond's music is still mostly comprised of us, and many of us are unaware of the flag, which has no importance for us. It's simply my opinion... I'm just a messenger." Diamond is not the only artist to spark controversy over the use of Confederate flags. In 2013, Kanye West was photographed draped in one. He was unapologetic. "React how you want. Any energy is good energy. The Confederate flag represented slavery in a way. That’s my abstract take on what I know about it, right? So I wrote the song ‘New Slaves.’ So I took the Confederate flag and made it my flag. It’s my flag now," Kanye said in an interview with Los Angeles radio station 97.1 AMP. He also featured the flag prominently in merchandise for his Yeezus tour. In 2005 rap artist Ludacris wore a Confederate flag suit while performing the song Georgia during the Vibe Awards. At the end of the performance, he ripped it off and revealed an outfit with the colours red, black and green, which he said are the colours of Africa. According to CNN, Ludacris said, "This flag represents the oppression that we as African-Americans have endured for years."