Police in Runyenjes, Embu, are investigating an incident where a 20-year-old student was allegedly beaten to death by a guard. The guard works at Karurumo vocational centre. The deceased, Dennis Macharia, who hails from Ishiara was an electrical installation student at the vocational centre. Embu East subcounty deputy commissioner George Omollo said Macharia was allegedly assaulted by the guard over  alleged theft of electric cables and metals. "We got the news on Monday at 10:30am about a student. Our officers rushed to the scene and found the student badly wounded," said Omollo. Macharia was confirmed dead on arrival at the Karurumo health centre and his body was taken to Ena Tenri hospital mortuary. Omollo said that one person is under police custody to assist with investigations. He assured the residents that whoever will be found guilty will face the full wrath of the law. According to a student who witnessed the incident, the guard on Monday morning brutally attacked three boys whom he accused of theft. Joseph Kinyua (not his real name) said the guard smacked the three boys using pipes but was more lethal on Macharia. Kinyua said that several teachers tried to stop him but the guard was rigid. When they boys were taken to the school administration office for interrogation, Macharia fell down forcing the school management to rush him to Karurumo health centre. "As a student I feel insecure since the law here is brutally applied," said Kinyua. Deborah Muthoni, Macharia's mother, said she didn't believe it when she was told about what had happened to her son. She urged the law enforcers to ensure justice is served and the person involved is arrested and charged. "I urge the relevant bodies to conduct thorough investigations and ensure whoever responsible for my son's death is arrested  and arraigned in court," she said. She said that her son should have been arrested instead of being punished severely. Further, she said that Macharia was the family's hope as he played a huge role in the lives of his three sibling. The school was on Tuesday closed until further notice following the incident. School manager Dolly Mutembei refrained to comment on what transpired and instead said she has left the matter with the authorities. She however said that the school management is organising a meeting with Macharia's parents. "Right now we're planning on meeting the parents. The DCI office is involved and is handling the case and that's why I cannot say much about it," said Mutembei.