The Environment tribunal has dismissed a case seeking to stop the construction of the Nairobi expressway which is in its final stages. Several lobby groups had appealed the decision by Nema to issue China Road and Bridge Corporation an EIA licence. However, the tribunal led by chair Mohammed Balala and members Christine Kipsang, Bahati Mwamuye, Waithaka Ngaruiya and Kariuki Muigua declined to cancel the license. “Considering the nature of the project and noting that the project proponent has largely complied with the requirements for the grant of EIA license, the tribunal declines to cancel the license,” the tribunal ruled on Wednesday. They also ruled that the effects of cancellation would be to cause a repeat of the process including public participation and the ensuing process. “We are minded to consider the colossal public funds incurred during such processes. A repeat of that process does not serve to offer any solution on the environment impacts involved in the project,” the judgement reads. The tribunal also said it had not been presented with any evidence of the Nema inability to supervise the implementation of the project. Also, its inability to ensure compliance with the conditions of the EIA license or issuance of the requisite improvements notices. They also held that the expressway project proponent largely complied with the stringent requirement of EMCA and EIA regulations for licensing of the project but did not carry out a climates change analysis. To remedy this, the tribunal invoked its powers under section 129(3) of EMCA. It ordered China Road and Bridge Corporation to carry out and complete a climate change analysis for the project within 18 months from the date of their judgement. The lobby groups had also asked the tribunal to order China Road to restore the environment to the state in which it was before the project was undertaken from June 2020 They also said that Nema approved the terms of reference without any scoping exercise having been conducted, contrary to environment regulations, impact assessment and audit regulations. However, in response, China Road said it was involved in numerous projects both in Kenya and internationally and is established as one of the leading contractors with a reputation of high quality works. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)