Shareholders of the troubled Embakasi Ranching Company have a reason to smile after the government announced the second phase of issuing title deeds next Monday. The exercise was halted last year to comply with the revised Covid-19 measures. The 24,000-acre ranch was acquired by the company 45 years ago. Members are mainly from Nairobi, Kiambu and Murang’a counties. In a notice placed in the local dailies, the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning urged all owners to present themselves at the Ranching office grounds in Ruai for signing of leases . "In order to successfully conclude the process, the plot owners are requested to present themselves at the Embakasi Ranching Company office grounds from Monday- Friday, February 14-18, 2022, between 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. with all documents as proof of ownership," read the notice in part. Individuals are expected to carry three -coloured passports, an original and a copy of their national Identification Card, copy of the share certificates and copy of KRA PIN certificate. Companies must present a copy of the certificate of registration, a copy of KRA PIN certificate and a certified copy of CR12. Other requirements expected of companies include copies of national IDs of the directors and three coloured passports of each director. For self-help groups, partners must present the certificate of registration, copies of the KRA PIN as well as national IDs of the trustees and three coloured passports of each trustee. The Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning has been issuing title deeds for Embakasi Ranching Company owners since the presidential launch in August 2020 after the company ran into financial headwinds. At the time, there were 35,000 shareholders of the firm and a few got their title deeds in the initial exercise overseen by the Head of State. Uhuru had also waived the Sh1 billion processing fee as the Individual applicants had been expected to pay as high as Sh30,000 for the process to be completed. The second phase will see some 8,000 beneficiaries get the new title deeds. According to Lands Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney, the slow pace of issuance of title deeds was due to lack of original and proper succession documents by some landowners. Landowners were urged to work with their lawyers to get the proper documents to fast-track the processing of their titles. In addition, the government warned that any plot with dispute will not be titled until the matter is resolved. "It is criminal offence to present fake or forged documents and doing so will lead to arrest and prosecution," reads the notice.