Division and rivalry continues to  rock Nairobi’s Azimio La Umoja camp  as issues of integrity remain high stake. The Nairobi’s gubernatorial race has exposed divisions in the camp, as several aspirants  who have announced they will be vying under the ticket criticize each other public Hitting out at other opponents but still within the Azimio camp, Orange Democratic Movement ( ODM) Party  Secretary General  Ediwn Sifuna  stated that there is no room for corrupt leaders in Nairobi. “We want people of integrity with no criminal record. Raila himself is known to be as a person full of integrity  and  modest. You cant  be corrupt and come to Azimio.,” he stated. Sifuna made it clear that ODM  party  leader Raila Odinga  wants to leave  a legacy of having a corrupt free government  thus no aspirants with integrity issues will be given the nomination ticket. “Raila has already pledged that government he will jail the corrupt. So If you are corrupt , don’t come looking for a nomination ticket under Raia. Instead of the ticket , we will take you to jail,” he emphasized . On several occasions , Raila  has vowed to jail leaders who stole from public coffers when elected to State House in the 2022 August polls. He opined that some of the public servants in Kenya should be in Shimo la Tewa prison for the crimes they have committed against the Kenyan public. He  speaking after attended church service  ACK in Kibera where he  was joined by Nairobi Women Representative Wangui B Ng’ang’a , former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and Kibera Mp Imran Okoth. In his address,  Waweru  also insisted  that this year’s election , Chapter six of the Constitution will be key  for all aspirants. He explained that Azimio  la Umoja Train in Nairobi is out to have leaders with the public interest at heart and not those after public funds. “Those who think that they will come to Azimio to dirtify  us. We have given them notice because Baba (Raila) will not condone such characters. It is Azimio Team Safi Vs Team wakora  ,” he added. Drumming his support behind  Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi for the Gubernatorial seat  , Waweru said that the team is out to preach peace during August Polls as well as lure votes  for Raila. Under ODM , so far only Westlands Mp Tim Wanyonyi has declared interest and launched his candidature for the county’s top seat. In addition Nairobi Women Representative  aspirant Wangui B  commended President Uhuru Kenyatta for meeting youths   and urged all political aspirants to do the same. “These team of Azimio is not of old people and this shows that we want youths to take elective positions to represent the interest of the youths ,” she added. Wangui insisted that  “Team Azimio Safi”  is comprised of competent and trustworthy politicians who deserve the opportunity to serve the people. Sifuna will contest the Senate seat, taking on Nominated MP Maina Kamanda head-on after declaring his candidature late last year. Nairobi Woman Rep Esther  Passaris is defending her seat and will face Beatrice  Kwamboka in a primary nominations while Wangui B will be seeking the position under Jubilee Party. Azimio la Umoja which is Raila’s movement in his bid for presidency is supported by both Jubilee and ODM party members. In the Jubilee camp, there is the sitting Governor Ann Kananu Businesswoman Agnes Kagure and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) Richard Ngatia who are after the seat. A fierce power battle is yet to be witnessed for the Nairobi’s elective positions  between ODM and  Jubilee parties  for the joint nominations ahead of August 9 general elections.