Garissa commissioner Boaz Cherutich has urged the Kenya Power  management to work closely with the DCI in rooting out corrupt personnel. Cherutich said stern action will be taken against corrupt staff who collude with rogue contractors and customers to steal from the company. The commissioner spoke on Wednesday after meeting senior Kenya Power officials at his office. There have been growing concerns of power theft within the county. Officials say unauthorised connections, stealing of equipment like meters and conductors and power polls threaten to bring the company to its knees. Cherutich said so far, eight people have been arrested in the ongoing war on vandalism of power lines, illegal power connections and theft of KPLC equipment. Four of the suspects have already been arraigned while the rest are out on bail. Cherutich who was flanked by Garissa KPLC business manager Yabicha Oche and Ahmed Noor who is in charge of the company security in northeastern said police have already launched a massive crackdown on illegal connections in the county. He said following the government directive to ban scrap business, dealers in Garissa are also notified to close shops until the government gives a new directive. “We have heard disturbing information on a few rogue scrap metal dealers who have been targeting and cannibalising power lines," Cherutich said. “This denies the government the much needed revenue to meet its obligation of providing services to wananchi. As a government we will not hesitate to firmly deal with such individuals when we are arrest them,” he added. He however urged members of the public to help law enforcers by providing actionable information when they come across or spot individuals engaging in such malpractice. “Kenyans should be patriotic enough and report all form of crimes. I urge Kenyans to rally behind the government in fighting crime,” Cherutich said. Noor said the operation on power vandalism will also be extended to Wajir and Mandera. He appealed for cooperation from members of the public. “As a company we are determined to ensure we streamline our operations. The unfortunate part is that we even have customers obstructing our staff from carrying out their duties,” he said. Noor said support from the Interior ministry has made work easier in terms of arresting the culprits. Mid last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned that persons found culpable of vandalising critical development infrastructure will be charged with treason. The President said such acts of vandalism translate to economic sabotage since the said infrastructure can bring the country’s activities to a standstill if they don’t operate optimally. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)