Nairobi Jubilee MCAs have vowed to defend their seats following rebranding of the party on Saturday. Led by majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo, the MCAs are optimistic they will retain their seats and even garner more under Azimio La Umoja. "The awakening of Jubilee Party is an eye opener to our opponents. Jubilee Party will retain the current nine parliamentary seats and even acquire more under Azimio La Umoja," Guyo said. Nairobi has 17 constituencies and 85 wards. In the 2019 Population and Housing Census, the city had 4,397,073 million residents. In the last election, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission the registered number of voters in Nairobi increased to 2,251,929 from 1,732,288  in 2013. ODM presidential candidate Raila Odinga garnered 828,826 votes while Jubilee’s Uhuru Kenyatta got 791,291 votes. Jubilee bagged nine constituencies, ODM got seven while Wiper got one. Wiper has signed an MoU with Jubilee Party with its leader Kalonzo Musyoka stating that they have initiated talks with Azimio on the same. Guyo said following directions from President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party leader, the MCAs will now start campaigns for election. “Jubilee was never dead and nor has it been revived. We were busy delivering to Kenyans what we pledged in the manifesto and now it is time for politicking,”  he said. He commended Uhuru for changing the face of Nairobi through the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere said Jubilee is now ready to take on its opponents. “Jubilee has been working. There is no government that delivered in the past three administrations more than this one. The face of Nairobi, and the  country in general, has changed,” he said "We are now ready to take on our opponents who have been politicking for the last four years. We have rebranded, and have new leaders in place, therefore it can never get better; we are ready," Warutere added. Nominated MCA Doris Kanario commended President Kenyatta for giving the party direction, noting that many legislators were in a fix not knowing the direction Jubilee would take ahead of the elections. “As Jubilee Party members we were awaiting direction and our leader gave it. Now we will hit the ground like never before and women in Jubilee will rise," she said. Nairobi has 122 MCAs, with the ruling party having 65 elected and nominated. Jubilee and ODM have formed Azimio La Umoja coalition. Edited by Henry Makori