Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha has suffered a huge blow after his deputy Abdulhakim Aboud announced he will be campaigning for Deputy President William Ruto. Aboud, elected with Twaha on a Jubilee Party ticket, made the announcement on Sunday, saying he is not interested in being anybody’s running mate in the forthcoming elections. He added that he is currently not interested in any political position and his actions shouldn’t be interpreted otherwise. He wants to focus his energies on drumming up support for the Deputy President William Ruto's presidential bid at the grassroots. He said his relationship with the governor remains solid and mutual and asked the public not to read too much into his decision. “I am doing this to focus on UDA campaigns. This is a personal decision and should be interpreted as such. I just want to take a back seat so I will not be a running mate on August 9,” he said. “I don’t want other politicians thinking I am available, let that be clear, nor am I interested in any political position.” Aboud has been governor Twaha’s deputy since 2017 when they were both elected on a Jubilee party ticket. He was born, schooled and lives in Mpeketoni, Lamu west. He holds a master’s degree in Education and worked for the government for 22 years. He was a high school teacher at Mpeketoni Secondary School and is the founding principal of Kizingitini Secondary School in Lamu East subcounty. Aboud has also been involved in various community development projects across Lamu, including working with youths and vulnerable children. He served as a senior election manager for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for seven years before plunging into politics in 2017. Efforts to reach Governor Twaha for a comment on Aboud’s move were futile as his phone went unanswered. So far, three aspirants have declared their interest in the gubernatorial position as they seek to unseat Twaha. They are ex-Lamu governor Issa Timamy (ANC), his former deputy Eric Mugo (TSP) and Umra Omar (UDA).