Alego Usonga MP aspirant Nicholas Kut has dismissed claims of being fronted by one of the politicians in Siaya county. The University of Nairobi don on Wednesday said he is running for the seat as an individual. “I want to categorically state that I am nobody’s project in this race. I am a man of my own and that’s why I am vying to bring change to the people of Alego Usonga,” he said. The aspirant however welcomed any move by leaders within the county to back him for the race. “If someone has declared to back me, I will not have any hesitation but will welcome the move. But people should stop branding me as anyone’s candidate,” he said. Kut further urged fellow aspirants to focus on selling their agendas on how they will transform the lives to the people of Alego Usonga. He will face off with incumbent Samuel Atandi and former MP Omondi Muluan. Atandi has always expressed confidence that he will retain his seat riding on his development record within the constituency. On different occasions he has stated that he will be the one to break the jinx of being a one term MP, since the introduction of multiparty politics in 1992. Muluan served as MP between 2013 and 2017 after being elected on a Wiper ticket. He said he seeks to bounce back with an ODM ticket to finish the projects he had initiated during his previous term. The former MP said he is a life member of ODM and will fight for the party ticket. However, Kut said he is not worried about talks of preferred candidates. He expressed confidence that he will floor the two leaders and become the next Alego-Usonga MP He also promised Atandi and Muluan a bruising battle for the ODM ticket. David Oloo a voter said they will be keen to elect a development conscious leader. “We will go for a humble leader who respects voters. One who is not violent and has the interest of his people at heart,” he said. Another voter Josephine Akinyi said she will back a candidate who will ensure equitable distribution of CDF funds and bursaries. “We want a leader who honours their pledges and will not encourage corruption and nepotism,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)