Multiple former Kenya champion Bladev Chager retained his lead going into the Taita despite returning third fastest on the CS18 stage which traversed Ndi near Voi town. Navigated by Drew Sturrock, Chager maintained his lead with a cumulative total of 16:15.238.54 hours. Rally legend Ian Duncan came in second after trailing Chager by a massive 7.328.97 in his Rover Vitesse. The all-Swedish crew of Patrik Sandell and Henrik Bolinder, driving a Tuthill Porshe 911 are holding the third spot ahead of Kenyan Raaji Bharij. Sandell ran quickest through the CS16 Fatima Gate stage where he beat Carl Tundo by 44seconds. American star Ken Block won the CS18 Ndi stage, where he eclipsed Sandell by 21 seconds with Chager running third fastest on his run. The leaderboard remained the same after the first stage of the day. The cars will stay overnight at the Taita Hills Lodge after which the rally traffic will head towards Watamu where the cars will finish on February 18. The day’s run was reduced to two stages (CS16 and 18) after CS 17 Tsavo run was canceled and used as a transport road section. Tsavo, which was intended to be the longest stage of the day, was called off due to roadworks that are ongoing in the Tsavo. The 10th edition of the East African Safari Classic has traversed  Naivasha, Nakuru, Nanyuki, Amboseli, and part of  Taita. They head  to Taita Hills today and Watamu tomorrow In the first half, the balance of power has kept shifting with the international entries seizing many stage wins. Today the CS 19 will run from Lions Bluff to Taita Lodge featuring 89kms. This is another new stage to the classic rallying and has a twisty narrow track and overgrown grass. CS20 is a 58 km stage that is expected to give competitors a run for their money. It will run from Estate to Sisal and end in the sisal plantations with fast twisty tracks. The last stage of the day today will be a 108km run from Tsavo Ndara to Sala. It's yet another new section to the classic and very fast and twisty with dips over culverts to encounter.  