DP William Ruto's digital strategist Dennis Itumbi  has vowed not to record a statement with the DCI following his mysterious abduction over a month ago. He says this would amount to wasted effort as justice would not be served. Itumbi spoke during a thanksgiving event at ACK  Kitharani in Gichugu, Kirinyaga county, on Sunday. He termed it ridiculous for the DCI to demand a statement from him yet there will be no fruitful results to his case. Speaking on Sunday, Itumbi claimed the DCI  is demanding a statement from him in order to cover up the atrocity the state meted on him in late December. “DCI, why are you demanding a statement from me? You should investigate yourself because as far as this case is concerned you are the criminal! Therefore, you should investigate yourself,” he said. However, Itumbi revealed that come Tuesday, he will mobilise hundreds of youths to accompany him to the Kiambu Road-based office where he will present video evidence of the alleged offence. “I will not sit with you but will just present the video evidence to you which I will leave to you to do whatever you want with it. I know you will do nothing about it anyway, but as a law abiding citizen I will present the evidence that is in my possession.” Itumbi further told off DCI boss George Kinoti  and the police IG Hillary Mutyambai for allegedly being used by the state to "settle political scores and harass individuals opposed to impunity". “It was you who promised the nation that you would oversee a fruitful investigations of the mysterious murder of former AP officer Arnold Kenei. You even pulled a CCTV to show Kenyans how serious you were about the case. It has been years yet there is nothing to show for that case.” He further faulted the DCI for having him arrested after he whistle blew on the alleged DP Ruto murder scheme instead of getting to the root cause of the alleged claim. The former State House digital strategist further chided President Uhuru Kenyatta saying his legacy stands dented if he fails to rise to the occasion and put an end to the abominable cruelty happening under his administration. He said despite having supported his presidential bid and even worked for the better part of his tenure, he shall forever hold him responsible for the recent torture allegedly meted on him. “Your government is responsible for breaking my hands and legs, and putting my loved ones into tears. Mr President we have done a lot together but I shall not forget that your legacy was to try to drive me to the edge. I’m a seed, I can not be buried, I can only germinate.” The UDA digital strategist reminded the president that Kenyans will not  allow an imposed leader on them come the August 9 polls but shall elect their preferred leaders. His sentiments were backed by nominated MP Cecily Mbarire who said Kirinyaga and the entire Mt Kenya will not support leaders being forced down their throats. She hailed Ruto for always showing concern to the region’s residents and even going an extra mile to help them in development projects. Her Kiambaa counterpart John Njuguna Wanjiku  said the mountain was solidly behind a Ruto's presidency and no one had a right to dictate to them who they would elect. He at the same time condemned Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege's  2017 election rigging remarks terming them as unfortunate. He said Sabina was making the remarks to please the Azimio team while she knew well  that the said elections were conducted in a transparent manner. His remarks were supported by Juja’s George Koimburi and  Gichugu's Gichimu Githinji who called on Sabina to take responsibility over reckless remarks. Ndia MP George Kariuki condemned  Uhuru's action of belittling his deputy and allowing him to be humiliated by his juniors. -Edited by SKanyara