It all started as a game. He would ask for help at the office and I didn't see anything wrong with it. Until I read in between the lines. He actually liked me, Emma who fell in love with a workmate said. She always spotted him staring at her a couple often times but didn't pay much attention to it. Emma had worked in the organisation for four years before her now-husband joined as an intern and later on was retained after the internship ended. "People would come to me and ask me if I'm dating Derrick and I would always tell them we are just good friends," Emma explained. The two were working on the same floor but in different departments. Emma says that when she would turn and face his desk, she would find him staring at her. "At first I thought it was creepy because we didn't know each other well. With time, we started talking and even going for lunch together. He always made me laugh and I looked forward to coming to work every morning," a blushing Emma recalled. She narrated that one day everything just changed and she put on a brave face and faced Derrick. "After finishing our meal, I cleared my throat and faced Derrick and told him that I had feelings for him. After saying that, he just stared at me, giving me a look I had never seen before, he sighed then said, 'I have feelings for you too.'" Emma said she was speechless and the only thing she did was cover her face and smile. The one concern they both had was how will they now behave at work having confessed feelings for each other? "Derrick is such a smart guy and the only thing he said was we will make it work. But I was not sure about that because we glanced at each other before and now that we knew how we felt about each other, it would be quite a hustle keeping the feelings in check. "So there we were starting a journey together. It might look like it was all fun especially with seeing each other in the office every day, but this type of relationship is quite risky, I must say," Emma said. Office spaces have different people, with different opinions and these opinions got the best of Emma. "It didn't take long before some people put one and one together, then the nosey ones came along and spread all sought of rumours. "I remember one time, this nosey workmate (she's known to always meddle in people's affairs) came to my desk and said that she's heard word going around that I'm sleeping with a workmate who has a wife and a kid." This statement caught Emma off guard, not because people now know she's dating but the dating a married man part. "Most people would have started explaining themselves but I didn't have the time or energy to address the issue and especially not to the nosey rumour monger. I looked at her, laughed and left her wondering what had just happened. After talking about it, Emma and Derrick decided to not let people's opinions dictate their relationship. "Our relationship was tested. Even managers had an issue, something that didn't make sense. But with time the whole topic died down when another duo started dating. I felt sorry for them because I had gone through the whole scrutiny and it wasn't nice." When you mix your love life with your work or professional life, it can bring about unwanted drama if it's not handled the right way. At the same time, you can find yourself in such a situation and it's not wrong. You just need to know how to handle whatever comes after. But when you find yourself in an office relationship, it can go either well or ugly. With time, your relationship might lose its beauty because of either including other parties or the two of you lose interest in each other. It's very important to keep your relationship as private as possible. While at work, your relationship does not matter and should not be a reason for your work getting affected. This is a move that needs a lot of calculations. Remember it might go any direction. It's up to you to steer this ship in the direction that will not lead to you losing everything.