Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa has asked the National Cohession and integration commission (NCIC) to take action against politicians taking advantage of the electioneering period to polarize the country along tribal lines. Wamalwa revisited "Madoa Doa utterances’’ spoken in Eldoret during the United Democratic Alliance UDA meeting which was attended by Deputy President William Ruto , saying such statements may plunge the country into chaos such as witnessed during the 2007 and 2008 skirmishes. "Such careless statements were made before the 2007 general elections and we wouldn’t like to have the same repeated. My appeal to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission NCIS is to have punitive measures taken against anyone fuelling hate without minding his status in society’’, said the CS. The CS spoke in Wamuini village in Waitaluk division in Kiminini sub county in Trans nzoia county on Saturday during the funeral service of Lucy Wairimu Kabuya. The deceased was the wife to trans nzoia county TSP Chairman David Kabuya Nuthu. Wamalwa was accompanied with former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya, Trans nzoia County Women representative Janet Nangabo, Trans nzoia County assembly speaker Joshua Werunga and Trans nzoia County TSP Organizing secretary Eunice Karanja. The CS said the constitution had not been suspended to allow politicians issue reckless political statements aimed at causing despondency. Natembeya called for the peaceful co existence among all the people of Trans nzoia, saying those issuing inflammatory statements were out to cause instability and destroy the gains made by founding fathers who fought for the liberation of this country from yokes of colonialism. "Trans nzoia is a Cosmo politan county where everyone stays and work. We must protect the tenets of a free democratic society where each one works and stay without intimidation from any quarter’’, he said. Ms. Nangabo hit at a section of politicians who have adopted a tendency of ferrying youths who are paid to heckle other politicians opposed to their ideologies. She condemned the recent incidences of open mugging and stealing of smart phones during the Kenya kwanza political rally on 9th of this month and asked security agencies to investigate mushrooming criminal gangs residing in slum areas of Tuwan, Matisi, Forkland , Mitume and kisumu ndogo . Werunga told politicians from across the political divide to have respect for each other. ‘’ These political parties are just like churches whose purpose is to take people to heaven. We must restrain ourselves from hate political rhetoric whose aim is to plunge the country into problems’’, he said.