Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Saturday told deputy president William Ruto to ‘man up’ and accord respect to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Joho led a team of governors and MPs allied to Azimio la Umoja to Busia where they told the DP to accord the two leaders respect bearing their positions in the country. Uhuru and Raila, Joho said, have immensely sacrificed for Kenya and the verbal attacks the DP and his team in Kenya Kwanza have of recent been directing to the commander in chief and the ODM party leader do not add value to individual Kenyan’s lives. He said with the energy exhibited by leaders allied to the Azimio la Umoja team, Raila will win the presidency on August 9 and succeed Uhuru as Kenya’s fifth President. “We have come here in Busia to remind you that when it reaches August 9, Kenya’s fifth president will be Raila Odinga,” Joho said amid applause. “I have been seeing Ruto running around and making a lot of noise. I want to remind him that Raila is not your age mate. Raila is too senior to you and the difference between the two of you is like day and night.” “When Raila makes promises to Kenyans, he always makes sure he fulfills. His promise for a new Constitution was fulfilled. The same happened to Devolution. But Ruto is a man full of promises. He promises but he never fulfills.” Joho said with Raila’s presidency, Busia people will stand to benefit in business. The former prime minister, he said, is internationally connected and will thus use his influence to mobilize for resources which will be used in improving Kenyan’s lives. He said Raila will not discriminate Kenyans based on tribe. “Raila’s government will accommodate everyone,” the Mombasa governor said. Joho was speaking at Acunet stadium in Teso North subcounty during a charged rally that Azimio la Umoja leaders used to drum up support for Raila’s presidency. He was accompanied by Governors Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma). MPs Kanini Kega (Kieni), Sabina Chege (Muranga woman representative), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Wilberforce Mudenyo (Funyula), Junet Mohamed (Suna East), and Mishi Mboko (Likoni) were present. Other MPs at the event included Florence Mutua (Busia woman representative), David Ochieng (Ugenya), Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi) and Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina. Joho lauded Uhuru’s administration for “doing a good job” in transforming Kenya. He said leaders in Kenya Kwanza led by Ruto should stop lamenting over Uhuru’s decision to support Raila’s bid for the presidency. “I want to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta because he has done a lot of work in transforming our country. And he has been bold because he has stood and told Kenyans the path we should take ahead of August polls. Is there anything wrong with that?” he said. He said Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula should be prepared to accept defeat after the August 9 elections. Joho defended Sabina Chege saying Ruto should respect the woman representative by virtue of his position as deputy president. “I am surprised that Ruto has the energy to stand on a podium to throw words at Sabina Chege, I am very surprised. How can a whole deputy president stand on a podium to insult Sabina Chege? What is wrong with you my friend?” Wangamati told Wetangula to fold up his association with Kenya Kwanza team and join the Azimio league since Raila will form the next government. He said Uhuru has the right to market Raila’s presidency since it is his right as enshrined in the Constitution. Ojaamong exhuded confidence that Raila will be elected president in August. “We will work tirelessly to make sure Raila secures the presidency and becomes Kenyan’s fifth president,” Ojaamong said. He said Kenyans should not trust Kenya Kwanza leaders because they do not have the interest Kenyans at heart. Kanini Kega said Mt Kenya region which is on record for having not given Raila many votes ever since said members of the Kikuyu community will elect the son of former vice president Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. “I have come here with one message from Mt Kenya. The people from the mountain have never voted for Raila. But I want to assure you that on August 9, we will vote for Raila. I am saying this because I come from Mt Kenya,” Kega said. “We used to peddle a lot of lies against him. But I want to tell you the people of Busia that when you vote for Raila and we add our votes from Mt Kenya Raila will win the presidency and will be the fifth president of Kenya very early in the morning.” He told ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to support Raila’s presidential bid. “Mudavadi you have been a very good man but you are losing direction. I am told he has been going to Sugoi and is fighting for a cabinet seat with Rashid Echesa. I want to beg you the people of Busia to tell Mudavadi to return home because associating with Raila is the surest way Mudavadi can become the president of Kenya,” he said. Kega said claims by Ruto that Raila cannot lead Kenya because of his advanced age is propaganda that Kenyans should not buy. “Is it age that leads or some one’s brain and wisdom?” Junet and Owino said Ruto, Mudavadi and Wetangula should prepare for defeat after the August polls.