The High Court has ordered the recruitment of board of directors of seven water service providers in Kiambu halted for violation of the law. Justice Nduma Nderi of the Employment and Labour Relations court gave conservatory orders suspending the recruitment until a petition filed in court is heard. Nduma scheduled the interparties hearing on March 7, 2022. Kiambu county, through the departments of water, environment, energy and natural resources, advertised in the dailies vacant positions of board of directors. “[T]he county government of Kiambu is undergoing reforms in the water sector and wishes to recruit visionary, competent and qualified individuals to assist in the reforms....," reads part of the advertisement. The petitioners include Eintreten Association, Malewasibs Association, Lobbydale Association and Nongaimwara Association. The water companies include Kiambu Water and Sewerage Company Limited, Karuri Water and Sanitation Company Limited, and Gatundu Water and Sanitation Company Limited. Others are Ruiru-Juja Water and Sewerage Company Limited, Githunguri Water and Sanitation Company Limited and Kikuyu Water Company Limited, among others. The cite alleged infringement, denial, violation of the groups of constitutional right to receive powers of self governance, equal protection and fair administrative action. The petitioners said the county executive committee has not established a county gazette as required by the County Government Act sections 2, 23, 25, 30 (2)(i) and (II), 48 (4) and 59 (6) as read with the provisions  of the Constitution Article 183 (1) (b). The petition said that without a county gazette it is impractical to put into place a Kiambu county assembly legislation. The petitioners said the executive and the county assembly have not even constituted the prescribed structures of participation of the people and not limited to filing the provisions of village administrators and filing the positions of village elders. The provisions are provided for in sections 52, 53  (3) of the County Government Act No 17 of 2012. The prescribed village administrators are assigned by law the functions of coordinating, managing and supervising the general administrative functions in the village unit. This includes and not limited to ensuring and coordinating the participation of the village unit in governance. They also assist the village unit to develop the administrative capacity for the effective exercise of the functions and powers and participation in governance at the local level. The petitioners said that the water companies have been operating illegally without a well constituted board of directors whose term came to an end about three years ago. They alleged that there is no public participation done in the exercise of recruiting board of directors and the county could be losing thousands of shillings of revenue since there is no sanity in the water and sewerage companies currently.  (edited by Amol Awuor)