Kilifi leaders are divided on whether to support the Azimio la Umoja Movement or other coalitions. Those allied to ODM support Raila Odinga's presidency and candidates at the grassroots to contest through the party. Those allied to Governor Amason Kingi's Pamoja African Alliance party support Raila but want to field their party candidates. Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro, who is eying the Kilifi gubernatorial seat, Malindi politician Phillip Charo and Oscar Wanje a youth leader eying the Ganda ward seat said they support Azimio. However former Malindi MP Lucas Maitha who represents PAA says they should support Azimio but must go to the coalition with their party and field their candidates at the grassroots. Speaking on Wednesday in Kijiwetanga during a church fundraiser, Mung’aro said he would officially resign this month and start campaigns. Mung'aro said coalitions among political parties were still being formed but confirmed he was in Azimio la Umoja. “I was in jubilee but since the party joined hands with ODM I will vie through Azimio and support Raila Odinga’s bid,” he said. Once elected the CAS said he would work on things not solved for 10 years. They include infrastructure, water, agriculture, health, education, reviving industries and tourism. “We want to build a pineapple industry, Coast development authority but on in Hola, we are in talks with some donors who want to invest in special economic zone projects which in the first phase shall employ 50,000 people. Charo who is the CDA chairman said coalitions are coming up such as Azimio, Kenya Kwanza, Oka and others that could emerge. He appealed to Kenyans not to be divided by the coalition on tribal grounds and ensure they coexist peacefully. “I am in Azimio because we will benefit,” he said. He said plans are underway to start campaigns for Azimio in Kilifi, to popularise the movement. Charo said they are planning joint meetings among all political parties supporting the Azimio movement to come up with the best way to move together. “We appeal to residents of Malindi and Kilifi to register as voters in large numbers to enable them to elect their leaders of choice,” he said. Wanje said they support Azimio because it is going to foster peace and they welcome the new political party laws. “Azimio la Umoja has united us and we believe that it's going to bring us together to succeed,” he said. Mung'aro and Maitha support Azimio la Umoja. However, Maitha urged Mung'aro to reject an Azimio ticket which would cost him after the election. He said Azimio la Umoja belongs to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga and anyone who will vie for a seat under Azimio is bound to suffer. “After elections, we will be kicked out if we want our people’s issues to be addressed and if Azimio is for us all we want the President to change the law to bring back operations at the Port of Mombasa,” he said. Maitha said it's wise for Kilifi or Coast at large to join the Azimio la Umoja which he supports but with their political vehicle and ensure leaders are elected in the party. The former MP said they were giving Mung’aro up to February 9 to research and make a decision. He said regions like Western, Eastern and others have their party, and it's time for Coast to join the coalition in a PAA party. Edited by Kiilu Damaris