The strike by more than 200 doctor-lecturers at the Moi University Medical School has stalled donor-funded research programmes. Some partners who fund the research and learning programmes are trying to have the stalemate over the strike resolved so that the multi-million shilling programmes can resume. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union said some partners have offered to pay the more than Sh200 million, which the striking doctor-lecturers are demanding as enhanced clinical allowances. The approved allowances have been withheld by the cash-strapped university for more than two years, causing doctor-lecturers to go on strike. The work stoppage is in its third month. Doctor-lecturers have sued the university for their enhanced dues that were released by the Treasury. “Some partners whose activities have been affected by the strike have offered to help pay the money and sort it out with the university later. But it's unfortunate the management is still adamant,"  KPMDU secretary general Dr Davji Bhimji Atella said. He said the partners, whom he did not name, had informed the union about the offer to pay the money in dispute in a loan arrangement. Classes and other activities including research for medical students at the university have been suspended. Students are idling at the medical college based at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. Vice Chancellor Prof Isaac Kosgey and his deputy in charge of finance Daniel Tarus were not picking calls to comment on the strike. The doctor-lecturers insisted they would not relent until they are paid. “Treasury released the money to all universities with medical schools and while all the others have paid, we wonder why it's only Moi University that has refused to pay our members," Atella said. He said they had sued the university after it wrote to the doctor-lecturers, threatening to sack them. “We followed due procedure in calling this strike and that is why we have also decided to go to court so that we push for our demands," Atella said. He said since the strike started last November, the VC and his team had refused to recognise the union or make any efforts to end the boycott which has paralysed learning. Dr Atella said they had again written to the EACC to probe how the money went missing at the university, causing the doctor-lecturers to suffer yet the government had given out the cash. “Even if we have partners willing to help, the university must be made to explain where the money released by Treasury was taken to," he said. Atella said the doctor-lecturers had been patient enough and dialogue to have the money released had failed. KMPDU officials led by North Rift branch secretary Dr Kamunzi Mulei said they would not call off the strike despite the intimidation. “We will remain on strike no matter how long it takes until the money is released," Dr Mulei said. They also are demanding remittance of another Sh70 million statutory deductions withheld by the university. KMPDU has also petitioned CS for Education Prof George Magoha to intervene and ensure the university pays what the lecturers are demanding. “In fact,  we have demanded that the vice chancellor of Moi university should be removed  to stop him presiding over collapse of this one-time beacon of higher education in Kenya," Atella said. He said the university was in a desolate state and a pale shadow of its former self, with no learning taking place as all its operations had collapsed. Leader of medical students Jin Rayan Wandia said their studies had been disrupted frequently and that due to the unending problems, most of them were unable to complete their courses and graduate. “Currently I am a fifth-year medical student but I am now on my eighth year of studies and with what we are going through, we may still spend more years here," Wandia said. (Edited by V. Graham)