Kenya Kwanza Alliance leaders have asked their supporters to come out in large numbers on August 9, and vote for their presidential candidate. Led by ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, the leaders said they are sure of winning the presidential elections without going for a runoff. “I want you to come out in large numbers so that we can win in the first round and immediately embark on resuscitating the economy,” he said. Speaking during rallies in Namanga, Ilbisil, Maili Tisa and Kajiado town on Thursday, the UDA, ANC and Ford Kenya leaders further asked their opponents to accept the verdict of the people after the vote. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula also expressed confidence that there would not be a runoff. “We are sure there will be no runoff. What we want from them is to accept results,” he stated. Wetangúla added that President Uhuru Kenyatta needs to know that he cannot determine who takes over from him because that mandate belongs to the Kenyan people. “We are asking them to promise they will accept the results. We want them to assure Kenyans they will not go to the streets when they lose or seek a self-seeking handshake,” he added. Tharaka Nithi senator Kithure Kindiki said the Kenya Kwanza team will beat ODM leader Raila Odinga resoundingly. “There is no way Raila could beat the Kenya Kwanza team. We will beat him in the morning,” he added. Sharing his sentiments were Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Katoo Ole Metito (Kajiado South), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East, Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu) and UDA chairman Johnson Muthama. Deputy President William Ruto is reportedly out of the country and will join the alliance campaign caravan in Mombasa on Saturday. Ichungwa said together with his colleagues in Parliament will pass the supplementary budget and ensure the electoral agency is well funded so that it is able to carry out credible elections. Wetangula added that the Kenya Kwanza administration will provide affordable education from nursery to secondary with the poor getting free education. He added that the administration will avail the universal healthcare to all and avail NHIF cards to all households. The team warned that changes to the election laws could invite chaos during the forthcoming General Elections. They cautioned the government to introduce new election laws a few months before polls. Mudavadi said the country risks falling into election-related chaos if the playing field is not made level. The leaders took a swipe at the Azimio La Umoja Movement terming it a State House project meant to propel ODM leader Rails Odinga to the presidency. Gachangua said Raila is a project of the State and asked the public to vote in the ‘hustler’ bandwagon in the first round.