Seven Kenyans will be part of the nationals being evacuated from Ukraine following Russian attacks on Thursday. The Ukrainian government has started moving people from the three regions of Donetsk, Luhansk and Odessa. The Honorary Consul of Kenya in Ukraine Anatoliy Kovalenko said the Ukrainian state rail company had already launched the evacuations. However, due to security reasons, the time of departure and destination of arrival will not be disclosed prior to the journey. “We have seven people, one in Donetsk, one in Luhansk, and five in Odessa,” Kovalenko told the Star. Early this year, there were 18 Kenyans students in Ukraine with permanent registration and 183 with temporary registration. On Thursday, the Ukraine ambassador to Kenya Andrii Pravednyk asked for international intervention to stop Russian aggression. “Ukraine calls on the international community to act immediately. Only united and decisive actions can stop Vladimir Putin’s aggression against Ukraine,” Pravednyk said. “What we are talking about is to stop Russia from making any international transactions, stop trading with them, stop buying their gas,” he said. Speaking during a press conference at the Ukrainian embassy, Pravednyk faulted the Russian government for avoiding negotiations. “How can we sit on the table with a country that is killing my compatriots, our relatives, friends?" he said. "It is not Ukraine that started all this, it is the Russian federation." The ambassador said the current situation might affect ongoing relations between Ukraine and other countries. For instance, Kenyan students who were in Ukraine on scholarship are being evacuated to an undisclosed location. “Definitely it will have a negative impact on Kenyan students studying in Ukraine. Unfortunately, they will now have to leave,” he said. However, he hoped that the Kenyan government will support Ukraine. “When we win I am sure we will be happy to see more Kenyans coming to Ukraine to study,” he said. On Thursday morning, Ukraine urged its citizens living in Russia to leave the country immediately amid growing fears of war. Russian troops were ordered into two rebel-held regions in eastern Ukraine and were reportedly edging closer to the border. Kwale Woman Rep Zuleikha Hassan wants the Foreign Affairs ministry to explain the plans in place for the repatriation of Kenyans caught up in the Ukraine crisis. The lawmaker wants the ministry to state measures they have taken up to ensure the safety of Kenyans. She has sought a statement from the National Assembly Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations. (Edited by Tabnacha O)