Drama unfolded in Malaba town on Monday after a boda boda chairman was roughed up by his colleagues for allegedly refusing to share money Deputy President William Ruto had given the riders for 'lunch'. Titus Magero, the chairman of Malaba Roadblock Boda Boda Riders, was beaten up immediately after the DP left Malaba open-air market where he spoke to residents. Magero had been given the opportunity to address the rally on behalf of the riders. He showered the DP with praise, promising him their support in his presidential bid. After the address, Magero is said to have received a bundle of Sh1,000 notes from the DP's handlers. It is not yet known the amount of money he was given. The money was to be shared among the boda boda riders as an appreciation from Ruto for the support the boda boda riders always accord him whenever he visits the border town. Magero is said to have told his colleagues the money would be shared after the rally. But after DP's departure, he allegedly tried to escape with the cash and was cornered by the riders. Magero explained to his colleagues that the money had been taken away from him by unruly youth who had threatened to beat him up. But the explanation landed on deaf ears as colleagues demanded to be given their share of the cash. The angry riders descended on him with kicks and blows, tore his clothes as he cried for help. The money was allegedly found hidden in Magero’s underwear. Those who were lucky managed to go with at least Sh1,000. It took the intervention of a colleague to save the chairman. A boda boda rider on standby urged Magero to board his bike and the two left at high speed. Attempts by colleagues to give a chase were unsuccessful. When contacted by the Star, Magero said his colleagues tore his clothes for no reason. He said the DP did not give him any money as claimed by the riders who attacked him. Magero said the DP promised to send him money through an MP. But other boda boda riders told the Star he had the money. Ruto was in Malaba town to popularise his presidential bid ahead of the August 9 polls. The DP told residents of Malaba town to support his State House bid to enjoy support from his administration, which he said would help struggling businesspeople. The DP is expected to address other rallies in Nambale, Butula and Budalang’i. He was accompanied by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula, MPs Malulu Injendi (Malava), John Bunyasi (Nambale), Majimbo Kalasinga (Kabuchai) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu). Others were UDA chairman Johnson Muthama, former Teso South MP Mary Emase, Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba and a host of UDA aspirants eyeing various elective seats in Busia county. Edited by A.N