Athletics Kenya Southern region's Agnes Mumbua says she will never forget her win in the women's 10,000m during the first AK track and field meeting held at the Nyayo Stadium over the weekend. Mumbua clocked 33:17.18 for the first-ever victory ahead of Emily Chebet (33:55.52) and Kenya Defence Force's Dorothy Kipkikach (33:57.29). "I feel so happy to finally win my first race. I have been competing at these events for many years and on most occasions, I was finishing outside of the podium places. I enjoyed today's race and I am so thankful to God for the win," Mumbua said. On Day One, Mumbua had competed in the 5,000m where she finished a disappointing seventh in 15:48.60 in a race won by Japan-based Rebecca Mwangi. Nonetheless, Mumbua says she was not disheartened or worried about her ability to hack it in the 25-lap race. "It (finishing seventh in 5,000m) did not bother me because 10,000m is more of my strong suit compared to 5000m, which requires a lot of speedwork. I have built a lot of endurance, which is a key requirement for the 10,000m but still need to work on my speed," she said. "This year I feel like I am at a better physical level. However, I do not want to say that I have reached the ceiling of my career, rather, I want to push on and become better because I know there is more room for improvement." With a number of international competitions on the cards this year, the Machakos-based runner says she will fancy her chances at making Team Kenya squads to the World Championship, Commonwealth Games or the African Championships. "I would really want to make it to the final list because I have never represented the country before. It would be my pride and joy. For now, I will be training for the second leg of the series (to be held in Kisumu) and my objective will be to maintain the same level of performance, if not better it," she said. Mumbua added that she wants to follow in the footsteps of double Olympic 5,000m silver medalist  Hellen Obiri, who she describes as an inspiration to many young athletes due to her discipline. "I just love the way she conducts herself and the amount of work she puts in her career. We have a lot in common in that she also competes in 5,000m and 10,000m. Among the female runners we have in this country, she is the most prominent. I want to work hard to reach her level," she said.