Kenya Power has lost more than Sh20 million due to vandalism of power transmission infrastructure in South Nyanza region. Kenya Power South Nyanza region manager Dan Obiero said the region which comprises of Migori, Kisii, Homa Bay and Nyamira counties leads in vandalism of transformers and illegal connection. The transformers are mainly vandalised for transformer oil and copper windings. “Kenya Power has collaborated with security agencies to fight these vices which are rife in the region. We appeal to the general public to help us in this fight of illegal connections, power theft, leakages and vandalism,” Obiero said. He added, “The vandalism leads to power outages which means losses to businesses, industries and homes. It takes a maximum of three days to restore a damaged transformer.” Obiero spoke on Friday during one day media workshop at Ufanisi Resorts in Kisii town. He was accompanied by the Kenya Power manager in charge of Migori George Nyambare, Homa Bay’s Ken Okunge and Human Resources Joseph Chepkwony. He noted that in the last six years, 20 transformers have been vandalised in the region while 21 people have been electrocuted. Obiero said the cases of electrocution are due to illegal connections using substandard materials. Obierio however said the moratorium on scrap metal trade by President Uhuru Kenyatta will help stem the vandalism. He noted that due to improved surveillance, closer cooperation with security agencies and the communities, six people have been arrested and prosecuted. The cases are ongoing in various courts in the region. Nyambare said, “There is unmatched love for illegal power connections in the region. I have never seen anything like this in other parts of the country. In six months alone, we have had 20 electrocutions and 10 non-fatal cases in the region. The connections are done by quacks which is unfortunate and worrying.” He asked residents of the region to remove trees planted on power way leaves. Obierio said they added 55,742 customers to their customer base last financial year in the region while system losses have reduced from 46 to 44 per cent. “To enhance efficiency, we have done interlinking of 15 out of 26 feeders in Kisii and three of the remaining 11 we have been working on designs. This introduces redundancy to ensure areas have alternative supply. We have built one Primary Substation in Kisii, namely Kisii East. A third Primary substation (Kiamokama) has been designed. Kisii East has three sources of supply,” he added.  