Football enthusiasts in Nairobi's Kangemi are all smiles after receiving a special gift that could transform many lives in the area if put to good use. Speaking on Tuesday, moments after local firm betPawa unveiled the renovated Kihumbuini Stadium, seasoned grassroots gaffer Athanas Obango said the community could soon realize the dream and privilege of hosting second-tier matches. The project saw the ground graded and leveled, a chain link installed, the fence reinforced and a new gate built. In addition, the betPawa team donated much-needed sports equipment to the teams. “This is a dream come true. The pitch has drastically transformed to national standards. We are happy the field has been leveled and a perimeter wall raised too,” said Obango. “At least we can now host second-tier matches just like Camp Toyoyo in Jericho and teams can sustain themselves from gate collections,” he added. The passionate tactician, who has inspired generations on the local football scene, says at least 40 football teams will benefit from the facility. “We have 40 teams that will use the stadium. It's also important to note that we don't have any other quality pitch in the whole of Westlands constituency and I'm sure many more will benefit either directly or indirectly,” said Obango. Obango said the community heaved a big sigh of relief when betPawa moved to give the facility a facelift given earlier attempts to get it renovated by the Nairobi county government proved futile. Speaking during the event, betPawa marketing manager Simon Mwangi said they were inspired by the desire to give back to the community. “The initiative was driven by corporate social responsibility. We believe we have a role to play in uplifting the standards of local communities through such empowerment programs. That is our sole objective,” said Mwangi. Mwangi said they rolled out the concept in September last year and singled out the ultimate beneficiaries from their list of priorities. “The Dream maker campaign was launched to collect users' dreams and financial aspirations and bring them to life. In this iconic campaign, 13 dreamers across Kenya saw their dreams realised and livelihoods greatly improved as a result,” said Mwangi. “The dreams represented the hopes of many Kenyans who were not only looking to better their lives but impact their communities as a whole,” he added. “From sports teams in dire need of kits and equipment to farmers looking to take their businesses to the next level, and even car wash operators yearning for finances to purchase the latest equipment of trade to welding operators looking to up their game and take on bigger projects it was a time for a change.” 