Deputy President William Ruto has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to allow him to tame ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Those who want to support Raila never supported him when he was still energetic. What are they up to? Step aside and let us face whoever wants to be president," Ruto said. He said the aim of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance is to liberate Kenyans from the capture by a few individuals. He said the individuals have already seized the country’s economy. “They even want to choose for us our leaders. We will vote to end ethnic divisions and arrogance of these people otherwise they will come and ask us to give them our wives to sire children for us,” he said. The DP added that the state has realised Kenya Kwanza has outwitted them in planning and strategy and are now thinking of rigging the election. “Those claiming they will rig elections are daydreamers,”  he said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said that Kenya Kwanza is the grand march to freedom because Kenyans are not ready to be led by a puppet president. He said that President Kenyatta does not want to leave power in August.“For sometime now, we have been asking who the real owners of Azimio are. The President has now come out openly as the patron of the formation,” Mudavadi said. He added that it was ironical that Raila is now ready to be assisted to win an election by the county commissioners he has been demonising and calling for its scrapping. They were addressing a rally at Amalemba grounds in Kakamega on Saturday. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, a host of senators, MPs and MCAs attended the event. Mudavadi said that the President violated the Constitution by allowing divisive politics in the State House yet he should be the symbol of unity under the Constitution. Wetang’ula asked youth to turn out in large numbers, vote and protect their votes on August 9 general election. “We are going to form the next government. We know Raila very well. He is a heavy load. The three of us have assisted Raila before and instead of reciprocating he is now creating mirror parties to curtail our course,” he said. Senator Kindiki Kithure said it is now clear that Azimio does not belong to Raila or Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, but President Kenyatta. “Mr president, If you want a political battle we are ready for you. There are more than fifty million Kenyans out there who are capable of leading Kenya. Keep off the politics of the country. If you don’t keep off we’ll embarrass you,” he said. Kimani Ichungwa dismissed Friday’s meeting between the President and youths from Central Kenya. He said Uhuru has done nothing for Kenyan youths for the nine years he has been in State House and cannot pretend to focus on them now for purposes of election. “Stop dividing Kenyan youth on ethnic lines using your office. If you want to meet the youth, meet youth from all parts of the country. Do not balkanise the country on ethnic lines,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)