Boots are definitely the most comfortable and classy shoes worn by men. They are versatile and can be worn to both official and casual events. Even on casual occasions, the elegance still remains top-notch. Men’s boots are the most common, compared to those of women. Most women wear boots during the rainy season but for men, it’s a daily affair. If you love the look of combat boots, try pairing them with your favourite joggers. The great thing about combat boots and joggers is that you can also still look really chic. You can do this by throwing on an oversized sweatshirt if it gets cold. Chelsea boots Chelsea boots inherited their name from their popularity in Chelsea, an affluent and trendy area of London. They are the most recent loved type of boots in men. The shoes are close-fitting and ankle-high. Chelsea boots are always made with an elastic side panel. The trousers can be tucked in the boots. Desert boots Desert boots are some of the most comfortable casual boots you can get. They have a crepe sole and breathable suede leather upper. Desert boots are found in classic colours, such as brown, beige and black. They are ideal for smart-casual occasions but can be matched with a relaxed suit. But in this case, one can either wear a T-shirt or ditch the suit jacket. Oxford boots Oxford boot is a high-ankle variation of the Oxford shoe. Its main identifier is the fact that it has what is known as a closed lacing system. This means the eyelets are stitched together at the bottom, giving the boot a more streamlined, formal look. Eyelets are the small round hole in leather or cloth for threading a lace. Casual boots Boots are fundamentally casual, that is why you should only wear them with jeans or chino pants. They come from rugged roots, and that's embedded in our perception of them. Do not wear any casual boots with a formal suit, and certainly not for a black tie. You can wear ankle boots with skinny jeans that are cuffed, tucked in, rolled under, or with a pair of jeans that hits at the ankle. If your boots are short, don't tuck them in. If your boots are tall, they'll look best with tucked-in skinny jeans.