Former Kangema MP Tiras Ngahu on Thursday was buried after the Environment and Lands Court in Murang’a quashed an order suspending his interment over a land dispute. On February 15, Kangema senior principal magistrate P M Kiama issued a temporary injunction stopping the burial until a case filed by Gabriel Macharia was heard and determined. Macharia had accused the former MP of illegally acquiring a parcel of land in Tutho, Kangema. In a suit against Ngahu’s wife Lydia Njoki, Macharia told the court the land in which she intended to bury her husband was fraudulently acquired. Macharia, who was appointed administrator of his father Angelo Kanyuanjohi’s property, said the five acres were ceded from his father’s land when the original title deed was still being held by Barclays Bank. He explained in an affidavit that his father gave the original title deed LR/Loc9/Kiruri/459 as collateral for a loan taken from the bank before he died in 1992. The bank, however, failed to release the title deed even after the loan, whose repayment had been defaulted, was cleared. He said in 2005 he realised the land had been subdivided and when he made enquiries at the land registry, he was told that the land’s green card was missing. Macharia said he has sought reconstruction of the green card and is in the process of obtaining the original title deed from the bank. Through his lawyer Robert Ndung’u, Macharia said the disputed land was a subject in two other highly contentious court cases, Murang’a ELC NO. 47 of 2017 and Murang’a O.S No. EO21 of 2021. He asked the court to consider permanently barring Ngahu’s family from burying him on the disputed farm. The magistrate stopped the burial and scheduled an inter partes hearing on March 9. But on February 21, Njoki filed another suit seeking to have the orders overturned before Justice L N Gacheru. While quashing the orders, the judge said the two cited court cases were concluded and decided against Macharia and are not as contentious as alleged. “An order be and is hereby issued staying the ex parte orders issued on February 15, 2022, by the senior principal magistrate pending the hearing and determination of this application,” the judge said. The judge further issued other orders setting aside, discharging and or vacating the ex parte orders issued by the magistrate until the application is heard and determined, setting an inter partes hearing on February 28. Ngahu had told the court in case Murang’a ELC NO. 47 of 2017 that he acquired the land in 2008 for Sh2.4 million and was the sixth owner. Edited by A.N