The Judiciary will train court reporters to improve accurate reporting, Chief Justice Martha Koome announced on Tuesday. Koome said the Judiciary and the media are accountability twins given they both serve as checks on the functioning of the state. She, however, decried occasional misreporting of court proceedings, saying it discourages judges and other judicial officers. "Such misreporting occasionally hampers collaboration between our two institutions," Koome said. The CJ said the media is a crucial partner of the Judiciary in bringing to the fore the various problems in society and nudging the duty-bearers to work towards the resolution of such problems. "It is this overarching role that will shape and steer the relationship between the Judiciary and the media during my tenure as Chief Justice. I, therefore, extend a hand of partnership to the Editors Guild that we should work together in promoting good governance, growth of democracy and social justice." Koome spoke during a luncheon with the Kenya Editors Guild in Nairobi. Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and Supreme Court Judge Isaac Lenaola were present. Lenaola is the patron of the the Court Reporters Association. The training of court reporters will be conducted jointly by the guild and the Kenya Judiciary Academy. "To foster judicial accountability and to educate the public on the work of the Judiciary demands informed sharing of information," Koome said. "This partnership will yield the outcome of a better, more informed citizenry able to advance and own their power as agents of justice." Koome reiterated her warning to corrupt judicial officers that their unethical ways won't be entertained. She said a new code of conduct had been developed and launched to foster integrity. "While the Judiciary will protect its institutional independence and the decisional autonomy, corruption, unethical conduct, impunity and failure to perform duties will not be entertained. We expect all who work in the Judiciary to embrace judicial hygiene," Koome said. 