The High Court in Mombasa has allowed KRA to carry out 100 per cent verification of 82 containers of imported black tea in connection with alleged financing of terrorism. Eighty were imported from Iran, two from Vietnam. The consignment is subject to criminal investigation of financing of terrorism, irregular importation, concealment, misdeclaration and other offences. The importer, Cup of Joe Limited, had sought court orders to overturn KRA's decision to continue holding the consignment. It was imported in four batches between April 13 and June 15 last year. It opposed verification and said all documents were in order. In response, KRA argued it was advised by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation in a letter dated December 28, 2021, not to release the tea. DCI said it received intelligence about questionable contents. Chief Inspector Geoffrey Ndatho of DCI's Serious Crimes Unit headquarters in Nairobi told the court investigations revealed discrepancies in the goods declared. Ndatho said in some instances, the respondent failed to declare what was being imported in the 82 containers in the bills of lading. “According to the commodity description, 50 out of the 80 containers imported from Iran contain corn, while the remaining 30 did not have a description. The other two containers from Vietnam were said to contain butane,” his submission read. Another discrepancy was that the applicant in a letter dated June 2, 2021, had sought approval from Agriculture and Food Authority and the Tea Board of Kenya for the importation of black orthodox teas. “KTDA has not imported the purported tea and requests this case be investigated to the fullest extent,” a KTDA letter read. Cup of Joe Limited had earlier applied for a judicial review seeking orders to have the tea released to the firm. It said the consignment had been imported for purposes of blending and was to be exported. The hearing for the application of the judicial review has been set for February 21. In a letter dated October 27, 2021, KTDA had written to the Anti-counterfeit Authority, KRA commissioner general, the Tea Board of Kenya and the KPA managing director to investigate the purported consignment of tea. They all said they were unaware of it. (Edited by V. Graham)