Nairobi Waters handball player Brenda Ariviza has been belatedly named the LG/SJAK Player of the month for December 2021. The award for the handballer follows her stellar performance in last year’s regional club championships held in Dar-es-salaam, Tanzania,  where she helped her side to defend the continental women’s title. Ariviza was rewarded a personalized trophy and an LG SolarDOM oven worth Sh65,000 by LG East Africa marketing director, Changhyun Kim on Thursday morning at Nyayo Stadium. “I am so happy to win this award; I did not expect it. This is the first time I am appreciated at home and this will motivate me as the season starts. I thank my coach and teammates for their hard work and support. Our goal is to win more titles for our country, this year we will work hard to defend the title,” Ariviza said. On his part, Kim said the company is glad to witness growing numbers of upcoming and talented sportsmen and women across diverse disciplines which is encouraging as it is a sign of the country’s diverse sporting heritage. “We congratulate Ariviza and wish her well in her future endeavors. I salute her for their achievements and for making Kenya proud. The award celebrates talented Kenyan sportsmen and women for their accomplishments,” Kim said. He added, “Last year was marred by negative effects of Covid -19 in every sector, sports notwithstanding. However, it is a joy to note that this did not stop most of you from bringing your A-game to the pitch.” “Besides, the season also brought out growing numbers of upcoming and talented young sportsmen and women across diverse disciplines. We find this encouraging and a good sign of Kenya’s diverse sporting heritage. Ariviza was instrumental in the Jack Ochieng-coached side’s unbeaten run as they went on to clinch their seventh regional title, unbeaten. To win the coveted monthly award, Ariviza beat among others, swimmer Victoria Okumu who won three freestyle events at the CANA Zone 3 Championships in Uganda and was the top Kenyan performer at the event. Also, in the close contest was Olympian Lawrence Cherono, who in the month of December won the Valencia Marathon in 2 hours 5 minutes 12 seconds, Mercy Ingando who won the Under-18 Africa Schools Chess Championship after winning 9 of 9 games, Veronica Adhiambo who together with Naomi Too won the Wote leg of the Beach Volleyball Circuit after defeating the top seeds Brackcides Agala and Gaudencia Makokha. Another nominee was Nancy Jelagat who clocked a personal best of 2 hours 19 minutes 31 seconds to win the women’s race at the Valencia Marathon. Her time, 17 minutes better than her previous best performance, also received nominations for the coveted award. Others in contention included rally driver Baldev Chager who won the season-closing Guru Nanak Rally as well as National Cereals and Produce Board’s (NCPB) Victor Otuoma for his best goalkeeper award at the ECAHF.