A battle of titans is shaping up in Nyamira for the Azimio la Umoja ticket as big guns plot for the governor’s seat. Key politicians including allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga are spoiling for a showdown. Governor Amos Nyaribo is set to battle it out with ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire and former Kitutu Masaba MP Mwancha Okioma. Nyaribo is said to have dumped Musalia Mudavadi for Azimio after the ANC leader teamed up with Deputy President William Ruto. The governor stormed out of Bomas of Kenya during the ANC National Delegates Conference after the arrival of Ruto. While Nyaribo is said to be shopping for a party within the Azimio axis, his close allies say he is weighing his options between DAP-K, UPA and the Jubilee party. Bosire, a close confidant of Raila has been touted as the most favourite to clinch the Azimio ticket. The former Kitutu Masaba MP has intensified his grassroots campaigns after he launched his bid last month. He has vowed to fight corruption, develop job creation master plan, support agriculture and roll out economic interventions for small businesses. "My first duty would be to dismantle corruption cartels and streamline the management of county affairs to ensure we get our priorities right," Bosire said. During his campaigns, the governor hopeful railed past administrations for entrenched corruption and misapplication of resources. "When I take over office, we shall have a different ball game, where accountability will be the clarion call," he said. Nyaribo has told voters to elect him for a fresh term after succeeding Governor John Nyagarama (deseased). "I have been able to do quite a lot during the few months I have been in office, I want to ask our people to give me a fresh full term and see what more I can do," he said. Bosire got a major boost when he received backing of Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o. The ODM director of elections Junet Mohammed and Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina also threw their weight behind him. Youths led by ODM Youth League chairman Dennis Marube have also endorsed Bosire. It is not clear how the county dynamics would change if Wiper Democratic Party signs a deal with Azimio. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi is vying on a Wiper ticket and has been traversing the county for votes. However, the county enjoys a strong ODM presence, complicating chances of other Azimio partners. Another top aspirant former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati will vie on Ruto's UDA ticket. North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko said Nyaribo blundered when he left ANC. “He will face very stiff competition in Azimio. He stood a better chance in ANC and Kenya Kwanza,” said the MP who is an ally of DP Ruto. Political analyst and university lecturer David Omato said, “Bosire being the ODM national treasurer and a close ally of Raila will bag the ODM ticket. If he names current deputy governor James Gesami as his running mate, he will clinch the seat. Bosire has a track record and performed well when he was MP.” He however avers that if Nyambati and Okioma go all the way, they will affect his chances. Bosire, Nyambati and Okioma hail from Kitutu Masaba. “Momanyi will be left in a quagmire if Oka signs a deal with Azimio. He is also yet to brand himself as a governor,” Omato said. He said Nyaribo’s stuttering is likely to affect him. “He made a bold move when he moved out of ANC but he is yet to identify with a party amid reports that Gesami might a abandon him,” Omato added.