Migori speaker Boaz Okoth and seven co-accused on Thursday denied breaking into the county assembly finance offices and stealing equipment and files. Okoth and the seven appeared before chief magistrate Dickson Onyango after they were arrested in the assembly premises on Wednesday morning. The seven co-accused are Philip Ochieng, Bonface Otieno, Peter Okinyi, John Harun, Vincent Otieno, Jackline Odira and Clifford Ochieng. They were charged with breaking into the finance office belonging to Evance Ogutu. They also faced an alternative charge of handling stolen property worth Sh100,000 including two CPUs, a monitor and files. The incident happened on the night of February 2. The accused persons' advocate, Nelson Jura, called for reasonable bond terms. Okoth was released on Wednesday on Sh30,000 bond over his health. All the accused persons denied the charges and were released on Sh200,000 bond and one surety, or a Sh100,000 cash bail. The case will be mention on February 25 and a hearing set for March 15. Speaking outside the court, Ogutu said the incident happened while he was on official duty in Nairobi. “We pray that justice takes its course, as an office we take safe custody of all financial records both physically and electronically for reference to auditors and government bodie,” Ogutu said. Police had a three hour standoff at assembly premises as the accused persons locked themselves inside the office after night guards alerted police of a break in. Okoth has repeatedly said he will vie for the Migori governor seat in the August 9 polls. However, two petitioners have since moved to court seeking to stop Okoth, his deputy Chacha Matthews and two MCAs from transacting businesses in the county assembly until they are cleared of corruption cases. Under a certificate of urgency, the petitioners Michael Kojo Otieno and Evance Otieno Oloo sought orders from the employment and labour relations court to bar the leaders from public office. With these mounting challenges, Okoth has rubbished his critics saying they should expect a political miracle from him in the 2022 elections. “I know I have been overlooked by many but I will beat all political old guards and heavyweights in the governor race,” Okoth said. On January 23, 2020 Suna East MP Junet Mohamed chided the speaker's governor bid during the burial in Sori town, Nyatike constituency. “Junet called my bid a miracle, but I took it positively because in my political career I have survived on miracles as I took on big names,” Okoth said.