That delayed response button in your broadcast station will save you; use it especially during this electioneering period. Its professional saving gadget and more importantly, a requirement in media regulation. Oversee your program once on air; be firm without being rude or harsh to your guests. Being live especially during political rallies is very interesting but must be keenly watched and moderated. Its an opportunity to allow citizens see for themselves, see their leaders in their true colours, but very tricky for broadcasting outlets; for whenever there happens a conflict with the law; may be hate speech, re broadcasting of hate speech defamatory statements, or harmful content; its always the provider of the platform that is held responsible. Regulations allow for seven seconds delay for broadcasters while discouraging instantaneous live broadcasting. Live coverage of events or current affairs programs on online platforms, radio, and TV, which is now the in thing across media houses. In the situation of a partisan media, tribal inclined journalists and politically intoxicated political pundits, the scene has become more confusing than ever before. While trust levels in the media are still within acceptable levels, concerns are still valid on the credibility and packaging of some media content. You can easily see the political divisions in the country displaying themselves on media platforms. From the choice of guests, moderation of discussions, choice of responses to allow on air or tweets, media is stuck. Live coverage in our media especially on radio and TV, which seems is gaining traction across our media houses, within the current political environment is problematic. With a largely partisan media, tribal inclined journalists and politically intoxicated political experts/lawyers, the scene has become more confusing than ever before. Media is no longer the source of credible and trustful information as it used to be. The political divisions have gradually taken a serious space in our media house, and the results are there. From the choice of guests, moderation of discussions, choice of responses to allow on air or tweets, media is stuck. For politicians and sources, not all people with pens, notebooks, recorders, microphones, and cameras are genuine journalists and or media practitioners- many are shoppers, brokers and players-they don’t work for any media outlet- they work for their stomachs. Watch out- demand for their Media Council of Kenya accreditation press cards, staff identification and more importantly, if their mics and cameras are working- many dupe you into speaking into decoys. Be smart. A recent study by the Mzalendo Trust on the cost of campaign financing in Kenya showed among the highest expenses incurred by the media is on the media- both formal advertisements and “releasing” journalists. FM stations through greedy program hosts are milking guys dry- that news segments such as talk shows, studio interviews, current affairs programs that are not sponsored or paid for, are free. Many are made to believe that it’s a favour or made to pay what they are made to think is a reduced charge- that the station would have charged them more, so the program host gives them a discount, but the cash never reaches the station management. Its fraud. Editorial appearances and contributions are free- in fact in other regions, it’s the sources who are facilitated for their contributions. Media must maintain sanity and good conduct in our programmes, especially our studio guests. Otherwise, the language and behavior of some of the guests is a shame and unsuitable content. While the media should not hold brief for those without manners and decorum, by showing exactly who they are, such manner less sources and guests must be tamed. The aim of an interview or discussion programme is to have the interviewee/guest provide facts, reasons or opinions on a particular topic, which is expected to help the listener to form a conclusion as to the validity of what he/ she is saying. The progamme host has a responsibility to obtain sufficient briefing and background information on the subject, the guest including meeting before the programme time to break the ice and asses the condition of the guest. In addition to be drunk and poorly prepared for the live shows, some guests even come armed to the studio. Some cases have been reported where guests physically fought in the studio during the programme. When an interview degenerates into shouting, we lose big time especially when the programme could have enabled citizens to make decision on the leaders they want. The role of the media in an election is to ensure that the citizen is empowered to make an informed choice. The media, therefore, have a duty to provide coverage that gives the citizen sufficient, accurate and reliable information on electoral matters. The media have a duty to debunk myths, stereotypes and counter fake news. The media must maintain accurate, fair, balanced, and impartial to all candidates participating in the election. The media should be able to demonstrate that the main parties or candidates vying for office are given equitable opportunities to be heard or questioned and, that minor parties or candidates are not treated unfairly. Fair and balanced coverage also means that individual stories, and their pattern over a period of time, reflect the views of different parties or candidates.