Three land title deeds belonging to the Kenya Meat Commission have gone missing at the National Bank of Kenya, an audit has revealed. The titles were among 13 that the commission used as security for a loan in 1984 through a debenture. The audit report by auditor general Nancy Gathungu says the government in 2007 repaid all loans owed by various entities, including those in respect of KMC. However, KMC had not obtained or received back the 13 original title deeds from the bank despite the loans having been settled, the auditor said. “Information available indicates that the bank acknowledged holding 10 title deeds, not 13 which the commission deposited,” Gathungu said in the review of KMC books as of June 30, 2020. She said no explanation was provided on the whereabouts of the three title deeds for properties in Kitisuru, Mavoko and Kajiado. The auditor also said that a search conducted on the three titles traced records for the land in Kajiado – precisely Kitengela. “The records (files) for the properties in Kitisuru and Mavoko could not be traced,” Gathungu said. She added that it was therefore, not possible to confirm ownership of the two parcels of land. In what shows as KMC weaknesses in handling its land assets, four parcels belonging to the commission were found to have been encroached by informal settlers. A parcel of land in Nanyuki weighbridge is charged by the Kenya Revenue Authority with a Sh5 million tax debt while the lease of another measuring 1.242 acres in Kwale county expired in August 1999. The auditor has also flagged the unprocedural sale of the commission’s three parcels of land in Mombasa (Shimanzi) and Nairobi (Kitisuru and Riverside). The parcels - LR No MN/1/258- Shimanzi, Mombasa; L. R. No. 42/40 – Riverside Drive, Nairobi, and L. R. No.17/67 – Kitisuru, Nairobi, were sold on April 2, 2008, April 1, 2010 and October 29, 1999 respectively. The parcel in Mombasa was sold at Sh12 million while the one at Riverside was to be paid as Sh400,000 annual rent. The parcel in Kitisuru was disposed off at Sh18.3 million. Gathungu, however, said no documentary evidence was provided to confirm that appropriate approvals by the National Treasury and the parent ministry were granted. The State Corporations Act requires state agencies to seek approval of the Cabinet Secretary in charge of the line ministry and the Treasury where such disposal is not considered in the budget estimates. The auditor cast doubt on whether the monies went to KMC coffers as no documents were provided to back up the sale or state the proceeds netted. “It has not been possible to confirm whether proper procedures were followed in the disposal and that the sales proceeds were received and receipted by the commission,” Gathungu said. And in what reveals the challenges KMC could be having with the disposal of assets, the auditor has queried an undisclosed sale of a motor vehicle belonging to the commission. The commission did not disclose in its books earnings of Sh250,000 and Sh54,000 from the sale of a motor vehicle and seamer machine respectively. Also not disclosed were proceeds from the sale of assets to the tune of Sh920,000. “The commission failed to adjust its records to reflect the disposal,” the audit shows. Gathungu urged the KMC to review its budget-making process with a view to developing a vibrant budget implementation follow up mechanism and feedback process. “This would be with a view to ensuring that all projects and activities are implemented as planned and for the commission to meet its mission and objectives for the benefit of the citizens,” she said. The auditor also bemoaned the lack of a proper ICT network at the commission saying it has made it impossible for the headquarters to monitor branch activities. “It was, therefore, not possible to monitor relevant operational branch activities from the head office on a real-time basis,” she said. In September 2020, President Uhuru Kenyatta transferred the Kenya Meat Commission to the Kenya Defence Force. KMC then was operating below capacity with an unreliable supply of raw materials. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)