The Sh4.5 billion Makupa bridge is now 57 per cent complete, the Kenya National Highway Authority has said. The bridge, whose construction started in April last year, is scheduled to be ready by June 15, the project’s resident engineer Stephen Gichuru said on Tuesday. Initially, the bridge was to be completed within 12 months, but Gichuru said the main works were delayed for one month, forcing them to review the timelines. The tender of the 457-metre-long bridge, which will connect the Tudor and Port Reitz creeks, was awarded to China Communications and Construction Company in November 2020. “The actual work at the site of the bridge began a month after the scheduled time. However, we are within the timelines and the project is expected to be ready by June 15,” Gichuru said. The new Makupa bridge design comprises two four-lane parallel bridges, with a width of 20 metres each, and an extra two-metre rail for non-motorised traffic and a pedestrian footpath. The bridge will be made of reinforced concrete with up to 40-metres-deep foundation piles. So far, the engineers are through with the island side where the beams have been put in position and the last slabs for the driving side are being put in place. "From the mainland side, we are backfilling to form the ramp to start laying the other beams which are being manufactured in our yard," Gichuru said. He said that they expect the bridge to be operational immediately, adding that any other remaining work will be carried on as the bridge is already in use. On demolition of the causeway after the completion of the project, Gichuru said, it will take some time before the causeway is removed. Gichuru said they will first need to finish the construction of the rail bridge, which will replace the old railway line connecting Mombasa West to the old Mombasa railway station. He said the engineers are working round the clock to also start that part of the project. The demolition of the causeway will see Mombasa reverting to its natural status as an island. The causeway, which was built in 1929, had stopped the Tudor Creek waters from flowing freely to the island thus interfering with marine life.  (edited by Amol Awuor)