Coffin maker Joshua Oduor in partnership with four other people started their casket business in 2017, it has been their main source of income to date. The shop which opens from 8am to 7pm has ready made coffins for display. The coffins are placed on shelves for easier viewing by the customers. However, he does not sell children coffins, which he says is a personal choice. “I don't do it because I believe they are meant to outlive their parents, Oduor said. It takes Oduor at least 72 hours to make a coffin from scratch. Like in any other trade, Oduor experiences challenges such as  competition and lack of timber. “Being unique is hard, Huruma estate has a lot of coffin shops and a competitor can copy your design,” he said. Next to Oduor is Chamwacha coffin shop where 28-year-old Monica Wanja specialises in casket dressing. She is mostly involved with finishing and putting the white clothing inside the coffins. Her tools of trade being nails, stapler and a hammer. This is usually the last stage of coffin making as one cannot do the placing of the cloth before the casket fully painted. The piece of cloth is made out of satin material. When asked why she decided to join the coffin making industry, she highlighted that as long as its not crime she is fine with it. “I started this work two years ago and found it interesting because people fear it. I also used to fear it but right now I’m contented with the work of my hands,"  Wanja said while having her lunch next to a coffin. Each coffin has a specific price depending on the size, finishing, colour and design. The costs of coffins starts from Sh20,000 to around Sh80,000. A pentagon shaped coffin costs between Sh30,000 and Sh50,000 without handles and the price can shoot to Sh65,000 -Sh 70,000 inclusive of handles. A double stair coffin which is the normal size can cost between Sh25,000 to Sh30,000 while a high-roof coffin goes for Sh35,000 to Sh40,000. There are ready made coffins and customised which are made from scratch. Speaking of challenges Wanja said even the coffin making industry has its low season. “Sometimes the number of deaths is low and hence orders for coffins is also low,” she said. However the biggest challenge is stubborn customers who complicate the business, she said. She revealed that some customers come with complicated designs and after the work is done they refuse to pay. “We have stubborn customers who reject the coffins once we finish them with excuses that the design is not the same as they had requested. They differ on colour mostly, Wanja explained. To avoid losses, when customers are buying ready made coffins, they pay full amount but for customised one, the client must show commitment by paying a deposit. “If one had ordered the ready made and later changes their mind we have no choice but to refund the money but for customised coffins we don't refund, the loss is on you,” Wanja added. Normal sized coffin is said to be the most ordered by customers. However, there are the extra large coffins which are specifically made on order. “Those ones we call them special order and one  has to pay a deposit first for us to make them,” Wanja added. Ken Odhiambo, who polishes the coffins says he has has been in the industry for 13 years and does not see it as an ‘odd’ job or cursed one. “When we sell coffins we are happy because its an indication that business is booming," he said. This business is a source of income for many people from the person whose sells timber, designs, paints, interior décor. We are all in business," added Odhiambo.