Kenya National Farmers' Federation (KENAFF) has launched a five-year strategic plan aimed at transforming the agriculture sector. The plan stretching 2022-2026 is expected to enhance food and nutrition security, improve incomes and better livelihoods for farmers. To achieve this, the federation has outlined seven pillars which include enhancing lobby, advocacy, and policy action, enhancing member services and contributing to a sustainable Kenyan agri-food system. The other four are leveraging the energy, enthusiasm, innovation and knowledge of the youth and women to drive value chain development. Speaking at the launch, KENNAF CEO  Daniel M. M’Mailutha said that they intend to leverage membership to build quality lives for their families in line with the aspirations of Vision 2030 'We aim to achieve this through like-minded partnerships with institutions, farmers and professionals,'' M’Mailutha said. To measure the success of the strategic interventions over the next five years, KENNAF hopes to achieve; a 500 per cent increase in revenue sources and a debt-free federation by 2026, enhanced leadership and governance at all development levels. It also expects to realise increased participation of farmer representation at all levels by 80 per cent, improved member satisfaction by 90 per cent and have a 65 per cent increase in membership with a particular focus on the youth, women and other vulnerable groups. KEFRI deputy director Jane Njuguna commended KENAFF for the commitment to mobilise and organise farmers from all over Kenya for production and marketing. “This is particularly discerning as the only route to a middle-income economy that guarantees all her citizens decent incomes and a high quality of life runs through the agricultural sector; on which the majority of Kenyans depend,'' Njuguna said. During the launch, the federation also unveiled a 10-year KENAFF Farm Forestry and Afforestation Programme, (KENAFF FF&AP), which intends to mobilise farmers from all the 47 counties to plant 10 billion trees over the next ten years (2021 to 2030). The programme further seeks to promote and entrench the tree value chain in Kenya’s agricultural sector; promote other climate-enhancing practices. These include sustainable land management practices, fodder banking, climate-responsive farming systems, and payment for ecosystem services.