Kirinyaga MCAs have unanimously adopted a motion to have Wang’uru town join Kerugoya as the second municipality. While moving the motion, leader of the majority and Kerugoya MCA James Kamau Murango said the move will unlock Sh600 million funding to finance a rice husk factory. He further said the idea will attract key donors like the World Bank, which is critical in financing infrastructure in municipalities. Tebere MCA Gudson Muchina said the process of conferring municipality status to Wang’uru town should have happened long ago. He said the process began at the time of the defunct local authorities. Muchina said Wang’uru meets the population threshold prescribed in the Urban Areas and Cities Act thus the need county executives to speed up the conferment process. Scolastica Nyawira,  a nominated MCA, said the move will generate more revenue and create employment. Her sentiments were supported by her counterpart, Caroline Wanjiku, who said the town can host international sports courtesy of Wang’uru stadium, which qualifies it for a municipality. While contributing to the debate, nominated member representing the youths Kepha Kariuki said Mwea constituency is the only electoral area in Kirinyaga county with two subcounties hence the need to urgently confer Wang’uru as a municipality. On the need to have a third municipality, Baragwi Ward representative David Mathenge said the leader of the majority party  to consider coming up with a similar motion for Kianyaga and  Kimbimbi to be elevated as well once the Wang’uru conferment is complete. Wang'uru played host to Mashujaa Day national celebrations last year, an event that was attended by more than 3,000 guests. Physical Planning executive is expected to submit a plan within 21 days, giving a roadmap for conferment of Wang’uru town to municipality status. Section 4 (1) of the Urban Areas and Cities Act allows counties to initiate drawing of boundaries of urban areas as a way of bringing services and resources closer to the people.(edited by Amol Awuor)