The emotive land issue and battered coast economy were the two main issues that dominated Deputy President William Ruto’s two-day tour of the coast. Other issues were the extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearance of persons and transfer of port services to Nairobi and Naivasha. During the last rally at Tononoka grounds on Saturday, Ruto and his partners in Kenya Kwanza outfit, took turns to castigate President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration and ODM leader Raila Odinga for failing the coast region. The coast region voted overwhelmingly for Raila in the last two general elections of 2013 and 2017. Coast politicians, led by former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar, MPs Mohammed Ali (Nyali) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), accused Raila of turning a blind eye on issues affecting the region, since his March 2018 handshake with Uhuru. “Coast residents have a list of grievances; land matters, transfer of port services and killings of people. We supported Raila in 2013 and 2017, but he failed to address these issues. "Right now, the port services have been transferred to Nairobi and Naivasha, he has not said a word,” Ali said. Omar said the Kenya Kwanza brigade will revive the Coast economy once elected into power on August 9. “We will lead the economic revolution. We have agreed with DP Ruto that he will return port services to Mombasa and 65 per cent of the youth will be given working capital to start their own business,” Omar said. Jumwa said Raila has nothing new to offer to the coastal people. “We supported him in 2013 and 2017, he failed to win the presidency. They are now bragging that they have a deep state and system, but we are the system,” she said. Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza principals- Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) urged President Uhuru to drop his ‘project’ Raila Odinga, saying it will soil his legacy. “Kenyans are enlightened, they will not be swayed to vote for a puppet,” Ruto said, in reference to the ODM leader who is being fronted by the President as his preferred presidential candidate. The ruling Jubilee party has resolved not to field a presidential candidate in the August 9 Election, a move that clears the path for the ODM leader. The president’s party is expected to endorse Raila for the presidency at the National Delegates Conference scheduled for February 25 and 26. However, the Kenya Kwanza brigade, which supports Ruto’s presidential bid, has warned the President against trying to impose a project on Kenyans. Wetangula said for Uhuru to go home with dignity, he must not make a mistake of trying to force a president on Kenyans. “We want you (President Uhuru) to go home with dignity and enjoy the way former President Mwai Kibaki is enjoying. "For you to enjoy this privilege, you must not try to choose a successor for Kenyans,” Wetangula said. He said after retirement, President Uhuru Kenyatta should be given a well-deserved international job, such as being named African Union peacekeeper, not to be a chairperson of a sectarian party. “However, if he does not heed to our advise and chooses to continue being the chairman of the Jubilee party, he will soil his legacy. And if Raila fails, he will also fail,” Wetangula said. Mudavadi said it is now crystal clear that President Uhuru is the patron of the Azimio La Umoja coalition, which is pushing for Raila Odinga’s presidency. He said Kenyans should not be coerced to vote for any individual. “Let us respect the constitution. Let the people of Kenya decide,” Mudavadi said. The ANC leader said Kenyans should also not take up the jobs of the people who are going to resign from government to seek elective seats. “I’m a living example. I was a vice president for only two months, therefore do not take up the jobs if they are being offered in exchange for your vote,” he said. He added, “What will you do in only four months, wait for us to make the next government and we will give you good employment.” Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said Kenyans should not vote in euphoria. “We should elect a person because of what they can do for this country. DP Ruto has promised to revive the economy of the coast region, we should therefore rally behind him,” he said. Others who accompanied Ruto were MPs Righathi Gachagua (Mathira), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Feisal Bader (Msambweni), former Machokos senator Johnstone Muthama and host of other leaders. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)