Kombucha became a trending beverage in Kenya in 2021, and people really got into the gist of making it at the comfort of their homes. Kombucha tea is a fermented drink made with tea, sugar, bacteria and yeast, and for those who do not know, it is a very gut-friendly drink. The exact origin of Kombucha is not known but it is thought to have originated from the Northern part of China. The drink was specially prepared for the Emperor. Although the drink is healthy, it is restricted to people who have a weak immune system because it supports the growth of bacteria and fungus that can cause serious infections. The drink can be easily flavoured. Slightly tart taste, sweet and fizzy, Kombucha has a little trace of alcohol although it is less than 1%. The first step is making a Scoby. Scoby (Symbiotic Culture of Bacteria and Yeast) kick-starts the fermentation process while also protecting it from contaminants like dust and debris. Ingredients of Scoby Preparation Step 1 Bring the water to boil in a sufuria, then add the tea bags and sugar. Combine the mixture and once dissolved, remove from heat and allow them to sit for 20 minutes until cooled Step 2 Add the remaining cups of water and bring the mixture to room temperature Step 3 Put the mixture in a jar, add in the store brought Kombucha, then cover tightly with airtight corks or woven cloths. Step 4 Store under room temperature and store somewhere dark for 1 to 4 weeks. Ingredients of the Kombucha Instructions Step 1 Bring the water to boil. Turn the heat off, add 6 bags of tea, and 1 cup of sugar. Stir to combine. Let the tea cool to room temperature (about 2 to 3 hours). Then remove the tea bags, and fill a 1 gallon glass jar. Step 2 Gently slide the Scoby onto the top of the tea, including 1 cup of Kombucha from the last batch (or the liquid included with the Scoby). Cover the jar with a paper towel and a rubber band. Step 3 Place the jar in a dark, room temperature location for about 9 days (shorter or longer depending on temperature, up to 2 weeks in winter). After fermenting, the Kombucha should taste tangy and fruity. If it’s still too sweet, allow it to ferment for another day and taste again. Use the litmus paper to test acidity. Fermented Kombucha should be between 3-4 ph. Step 4 Remove the Scoby and set it aside in a sealable container with about 1 cup of Kombucha. Step 5 Pour the Kombucha through a strainer into sealed jars. Close the jars or bottles and return them to the warm, dark storage location. Store for 24 hours to allow the Kombucha to naturally carbonate. (Don’t leave them for more than 24 hours, as the pressure can build in the bottle.) When the Kombucha is ready, refrigerate and serve cold. Keep up to 2 weeks in the fridge.