Kenya has received Sh4.7 billion from UK Government to fund solar energy, forest restoration and other nature projects in Kenya. The money is to be used in different parts of the country on different projects. The Kesses Solar Project which is based in  Eldoret received Sh3.9 billion to support Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund and driving clean green energy in Kenya. "When completed, the plant will improve access to energy for thousands of people and create up to 400 construction jobs, helping Kenya achieve 100% renewable energy by 2030 as announced at COP26 last year," the statement by the UK stated. The UK also announced Sh800 million to restore deforested and degraded land in Kenya. The package was unveiled at an event to launch the Greening Kaptagat Project in Elgeyo Marakwet. The Kaptagat project received Sh75 million and was delivered in partnership with the WWF and the Eliud Kipchoge foundation. There was a pledge to stop and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030. PS Chris Kiptoo, World Marathon Champion Eliud Kipchoge, and WWF CEO Mohamed Awer said they will help to turn the pledge into action. "Unsustainable agricultural practices, illegal logging, overgrazing, forest encroachment and charcoal production are some of the problems facing Kaptagat landscape." The Greening Kaptagat Forest project aims to mitigate these threats by providing access to sustainable development activities that will restore over 1,000 hectares and benefit over 1,000 people living in the Kaptagat forest landscape. The project launch also included the unveiling of the Kapkoi-Kibogy solar-powered water project that will provide a steady flow of water for household consumption for approximately 800 Kaptagat residents. Speaking at the launch event, Mike Foster, Head of Mutual Prosperity and Climate Change at the British High Commission said the UK is proud to partner with WWF, the Eliud Kipchoge Foundation and the Government of Kenya to Green Kaptagat – turning pledges at COP26 into action on the ground. "This project and the investment in the Kesses Solar Project will help Kenya achieve its vision of 10% tree cover by 2030, and provide new green jobs for local people,” he said. Chris Kiptoo the Private Secretary for Environment and Forestry said that Greening Kaptagat is a response to a call in 2020 by UK PACT through WWF in partnership with the government and Eliud Kipchoge Foundation which directly responds to the priorities identified through the Integrated Master plan for the Rehabilitation and Restoration of Kaptagat forest. Kipchoge gave a summary of why the restoration of the Kaptagat forest is important. “I grew up with a strong sense of togetherness with the people in my village. We were breathing together. We call it “Umoja” in Swahili; it means that we are all part of the community. As a runner, I know how important breathing is. Breathing to keep you going, breathing to feel alive. Athletes train in the Kaptagat forest. They need the forests, it is good for their health and for good breathing. I want the world to breathe well. Without forests, you cannot breathe." The Greening Kaptagat project, and the Sh800 million of new funding for nature-based solutions, build on Sh22 billion of climate investment from the UK in Kenya over the past three years. The UK is working with Kenya to adapt and manage the worst effects of climate change and create jobs in a green and sustainable way.