Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has said that the handshake has absolutely nothing to do with the people of Kenyan. Speaking on Monday, the legislator said that it was only done to protect the business and family interests of the Kenyattas. Gachagua claimed that there are things that have been going on that President Uhuru Kenyatta did not want Raila Odinga to talk about, adding that they would reveal them soon. "I want to say on record that the handshake had nothing to do with the people of Kenya, it has everything to do with protecting business and family interests and we are now getting into that conversation," he said on Citizen TV. The Mathira MP said that the Head of State had been struggling to explain his fallout with his deputy William Ruto. "He (President) is struggling to explain why he has betrayed William Ruto because he has no reason..." Gachagua questioned why Uhuru did not drop Ruto as his running mate in 2017 if he knew he was corrupt. His remarks come a few days after Uhuru explained his fallout with the DP during the Sagana III meeting. Uhuru warned that Ruto has nothing good to offer except empty rhetoric. In a fiery speech last week, the President linked Ruto to graft and stealing project funds meant for the people of Mt Kenya and elsewhere. "He also donated that money to churches," the President said. Uhuru linked Ruto to the multi-billion Kimwarer and Arror dams scandal and claimed the stolen cash was being used to buy political support in Mt Kenya, including that of the clergy. Uhuru painted Ruto as the architect of the problems facing Mt Kenya and the country in general, saying he could not purport to have answers to those problems. The President said Ruto has been donating funds meant for public projects to churches while using their podiums to peddle lies against his government. Uhuru said when he decided to meet Raila for the March 9, 2018, handshake following the unrest that came after the 2017 general election, Ruto was aware of his plans to quell the chaos that devastated the economy. “Many don’t know this but I even sourced for funds to try and stop the unrest when others were telling me to continue standing my ground," he said. The President praised the handshake as the game-changer that gave rise to the peace and stability that Kenyans are now enjoying.