Athletes competing at this Saturday's Agnes Tirop World Cross Country Tour at Lobo village, Eldoret should expect to find a different course from the one used during the national cross country championship at the same venue. The technical director of the competition, Ibrahim Hussein, said they have made adjustments to the course, including the start and finish line. Athletes will encounter a man-made hill, 200m from the start point, before having to manoeuvre through a hay barrier at the 1km mark and muddy terrain, 5km to the finish line. “For those who were here during the national championships, it is the same course but we have made small adjustments especially at the finish area which has been widened. The course is so exciting because there are barriers, which means they have to run over barriers, rivers, grass,” Hussein said. He said the adjustments have also been informed by the terrain most international athletes are used to in their respective homelands. “Cross country events are mostly run in Europe and during this season, people are running in the snow where there is mud and water. We want to incorporate that so that other athletes do not feel left out,” he said. Hussein invited athletes already in Eldoret to come and survey the course and test it before the d-day. “We are telling them to come to the course, two days before the competition, so they know what to expect during the event. They will need to tighten their shoelaces properly to avoid losing them in muddy areas and water points. We want top athletes to come and understand the course of the cross country very well,” the three-time Boston Marathon winner said. The Local Organizing Committee chairman, Abraham Mutai, said they are working hand-in-hand to ensure everything is in place. “We are expecting top-notch competition and we are inviting everybody to come and witness such a big race. We shall also have our former heroes competing to show the world that they are the ones who laid the foundations for Kenya's dominance in cross country,” Mutai said. Apart from the main 10km senior races, there will be a curtain-raiser for the event where junior athletes will be running.