A lobby group has launched a programme to educate and sensitise Mt Kenya region residents of the benefits they stand to reap under a Raila Odinga’s presidency. The group— Ushindi Kenya—led by chairman Lee Karuri, says they have taken the civic education model to ensure the mountain region understands the objectives, philosophy and ideals of Azimio la Umoja spearheaded by the former Prime Minister. Speaking in Thika on Tuesday after a meeting with local leaders drawn from 11 counties in the region, Karuri said the team will be crisscrossing the region sensitising residents on the benefits they stand to gain as well as popularising Azimio and Raila’s presidential bid. The chairman noted with concern that a big percentage of Mt Kenya residents are yet to understand the ideals of Azimio and what Raila’s presidency will mean to them and the region’s economy. “Our focus now is the grassroots. We have properly organised ourselves and are going to reach to the people and make them understand what Azimio is and what it's bringing on the table for us,” Karuri said. He said the group is planning to reach out to the villages through various sectors including women and youth groups, churches, business and professionals groups, transport sector as well as Juakali groups. “We are doing this because we know the credibility of the former Prime Minister and we are upbeat that once he assumes office of the President come August 9, he will steer our region and the entire country’s growth,” the chairman said. The group’s vice chairman James Nginyo said their initiative is geared towards saving Mt Kenya region from losing a chance to gain and grow economically post 2022 elections. “We know there was the Building Bridges Initiative  which had loads of goodies which could have benefitted the region like the 35 per cent increment of revenue to counties, but most people objected it for lack of knowledge. This time, we don’t want to miss out on more benefits as a region like the revenue increment and Baba Care programme among others,” Nginyo said. Gladys Chania, a member of the group noted that the programme to popularise the ODM leader and the Azimio coalition is out of confidence that Raila will complete all development projects that have been initiated in the region by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The mountain people are farmers and business people, and under Baba [Raila] we have been assured that key farming sectors will be revived and boosted, and that his government will create a conducive environment and favourable policies for our businesses to thrive,” Chania said. Her sentiments were echoed by the chairman of Traders and Professionals in Mt Kenya region Alfred Wanyoike who said, “Our businesses will be safe under Raila’s leadership. He has assured us that as traders, we will be protected and not just by word of mouth but by law. We are certain that he will emulate his predecessor President Kenyatta,” Chania also quipped that Raila has taken serious the interests of the mountain region and is expected to pick his running mate from the region. Mumbi Ng’aru, an ardent follower of Raila and a member of the East Africa Legislative Assembly who was present in the meeting, said the country has enjoyed peace and tranquility and witnessed massive developments after the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. “Handshake has fostered peace in the country and we don’t want it to be just for the few years. It will continue under Raila come August 9. The tides have changed and the mountain region has accepted and embraced Baba’s leadership. This is a testimony of the love and unity that the handshake has brought to this country,” Ng’aru said. The group is expected to hit the ground running in the course of this week. 