Kisumu residents in need of surgery will benefit from a team of 20 doctors currently visiting the county. The volunteer surgeons are from Kenya Orthopedic Association and Surgical Society of Kenya. The camp will reduce the backlog of pending surgeries in the public health facilities. The surgeries will be done at a subsidised fee paid through NHIF. However, those without the insurance card will not be charged anything for the procedure. The camp is in honour of Dr Daniel Alushula who succumbed to Covid-19 while on duty in 2020. It will run from February 14th-18th. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said Dr Alushula was a great man, as many can attest. His dedication to work was felt across the Western region, where he had many patients. “Here in Kisumu, he had many patients. I am happy we are the first county to host a camp in his honour. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. The governor said the surgical medical camp will help the county reduce the backlog of pending surgeries in hospitals, especially at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital and the county hospitals. Nyong’o said the county has constructed and equipped theaters at all the subcounty hospitals. He said they have also put up new maternity wards and improved service delivery for outpatient. The county boss said some of the patients are to undergo orthopaedic surgeries. He said trauma is a large contributor to the burden of disease, with a large number of cases being fractures of long bones, head injuries and chest trauma. He said the young population with a growing economy has facilitated the rapid growth in the boda boda industry. However, while having a lot of gains in facilitating fast and efficient transportation, it also holds the same danger through the very speed it offers. He added that accidents from the boda boda sector have increased in the past year, putting strain on their surgeons. “I want to agree with some of the views that for us to reduce our morbidity and mortality rates involving boda boda riders, there is an urgent need to enact tough laws governing this popular sub-sector that employs thousands of our youth,” he said. The governor said there is also a growing challenge on diseases of the joints and spine, that require reconstructive and replacement therapy. “We are excited that some patients will benefit from these services right within the public sector space in this exciting season of Universal Healthcare” he said. “I wish to assure our surgeons that we are excited to have you onboard and welcome you as we serve the people of the region this week. We hope that you can always come back in the same or better capacity,” he added. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)