Ayub Savula, also known as 'crocodile' in political circles, prides himself as the son of a peasant in Lugari subcounty, Kakamega county. Born of Mzee Arthur Angatia who used to be a village elder and Wilmin Muranditsi, a pastor with the Church of God in Manyonyi Village, Savula rose to become a journalist, an affluent businessman and later a politician. Savula was born in March 1978 at Manyonyi village, Lugari subcounty, in a family of 13, seven boys and six girls. His education was plagued by hiccups of raising fees, forcing him to attend three schools for his secondary education. He attended Manyonyi Catholic Primary School between 1982 and 1989, and later joined Maturu Secondary School. However, he schooled for only one term before he dropped out for lack of fees. His elder brother, John Owenga (now deceased) then moved him to Vihiga Boys High School in Vihiga county, but the hand of fate dealt him another blow. He dropped out again in Form 3 following the death of his brother, then a pastor. He had to be admitted at Lumakanda Boys where he finally wrote his KCSE exams in 1994 scoring an aggregate C+. Savula later became a contact person in Lugari for then Standard newspaper staffer in Kakamega, the late Patrick Wakhisi. “I used to collect information and take it to Wakhisi who would then file news copies for the newspaper. I was included on the list of correspondents in 1998 and worked in Kakamega, Kisumu and later Nairobi,” he said. He later joined the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication to pursue a Diploma in Broadcast Journalism in 1999 as he toiled as a correspondent. Savula later did his Bachelor of Science in Public Relations and Communication Studies at Moi University between 2001 and 2005. He continued working at the Standard, even as his thirst for knowledge intensified. He pursued his Master of Philosophy in Communication Studies at the same university until 2007. Savula, a second term MP for Lugari, is finalising his project work for his PhD studies. "I have finished my course work already," he said. The polygamous family man with three wives and four children, one boy and three daughters later worked for one year between 2007 and 2008 as the managing director at Cross Continental Venture Limited. He later resigned from the Standard as a senior reporter in 2008 and moved into business before founding the Sunday Express Publishers Limited, a company that has been in the eye of storm over government advertisements in recent years. On July 8, 2021, Kenya Revenue Authority sought to collect Sh473 million from the publication over claims of unpaid taxes accrued over a period of four years. According to the taxman, Sunday Publishers had secured contracts between 2013 and 2017 but failed to remit taxes. He plunged into politics in 2013 and successfully vied for the Lugari parliamentary seat on a United Democratic Forum, which was then headed by Musalia Mudavadi. Savula was re-elected in 2017, this time on ANC ticket. He has joined the Kakamega governorship race in a bid to succeed Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The lawmaker says he has initiated development projects in all wards in the constituency which he says is cosmopolitan, and now wants to extend that vision to the county. He adds that he has established a training college in all the six wards during his tenure as MP. Savula brags of establishing Lugari National Teachers Training College in Lumakanda ward, Lugari Kenya Medical Training College in Mautuma ward and Maturu Technical Training Institute that are already operational. But why does he really want to become governor? He says he has the desire to uplift the lives of the residents and will ensure there are enough health facilities to improve service delivery. Savula adds that he will give priority to the agricultural sector by ensuring access to affordable farm inputs to reduce the cost of production, especially for sugarcane farmers. This, he said, will be through scouting for investors to set up agro-based factories in the county to create the much needed job opportunities. The opportunities, in turn, will spur the economic growth of the county. When he looks back, the former journalist says that his lowest moment was when he was arrested in connection with corruption. “It was the worst experience because they arrested me together with my two wives. They [the state] almost collapsed my businesses,” he said. “I am a businessman. I basically play politics during weekends but the rest of the time I do business,” he said. Savula is yet to name the party on which he will defend his seat, having defected to join the Azimio la Umoja movement during the Western Azimio rally in Kakamega on December 31.  (edited by Amol Awuor)