Kitui South MP Rachel Kaki Nyamai is the second Kitui politician to declare she will defend her seat on a Jubilee Party ticket. Last month, former Mwingi North MP John Munuve said he will seek to reclaim the seat he lost in 2017 through Jubilee. Jubilee MP Nimrod Mbai of Kitui East has since bolted and joined DP William Ruto’s UDA, on whose ticket he will defend his seat. Nyamai said she has an indispensable affinity to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee. The MP spoke on Sunday at her Mutomo rural home when she hosted a cross-section of local leaders. In 2013 Nyamai was elected MP on Governor Charity Ngilu’s Narc party. She however, switched camps in 2017 and opted for Jubilee as her re-election vehicle. She resoundingly reclaimed her seat. Already, four Kitui South politicians, John Munyau and Daniel Mutua both of Wiper party, Onesmas Mumo of Narc and Denis Mwangangi are eyeing Nyamai’s seat. Leaders from Nyamai's turf have endorsed her third re-election bid and urged her to stick to the Jubilee party. "It is through Jubilee’s leadership that we were able to get Kibwezi-Mutomo-Kitui road, which we have waited for since independence," Kitonyo Malaya, a delegate said. The leaders said residents would be safe if Nyamai was re-elected on Jubilee because the Azimio La Umoja coalition will form the next government. The leaders included professionals, pastors, the business community and opinion leaders. Jubilee is a leading partner in the Azimio La Umoja coalition set up by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Political pundits believe the coalition is set to form government after the August 9 polls. Accepting the endorsement, Nyamai said she was confident of a win. She said her campaign is buoyed by her development track record. "I have served you well since you first sent me to Parliament in 2013. I am still strong and ready to continue serving you if you give me another opportunity," she said. Supported by the Jubilee government, Nyamai has been able to push for development projects for her constituents. They include flagship projects like the Kibwezi-Mutomo-Kitui Road and Mutomo KMTC campus. Others are the Ikanga Teacher's Training College, Ikutha Technical Training Institute and the South Eastern Kenya University, Mutomo campus. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)