Dominic Chelimo shocked top golfers by swinging to victory during the first leg of the Kenya Seed Golf series played on Saturday at the Eldoret Golf Club. With numerous bogeys and double bogeys, Chelimo cared 43 stable ford points to win the title after sinking 23 and 20 points in a tournament featuring golfers from Kitale, Kakamega, Nandi Bears, Nakuru and Limuru. Teeing off at handicap 25 and just eight months into his career, Chelimo said the win was a culmination of a week-long practice at the club. “After facing putting challenges, I had to practice more to reap better results. I played short games knowing that I am poor in putting but my week-long training has paid off. I can’t say I had planned to win but it happened,” said Chelimo. He started badly when he dropped a shot in one par 5, recovered with a par in second par 4, sunk deep, dropping a shot in three and four, fired back to level in 5th dropped two in 6th par 4, bogeyed in 7th par 3 before dropping two in 8th and level in the 9th for a total of 23 points. On his return, it was hard work for the newcomer, who dropped one in 10th par 5, parred in 11th, bogeyed in 12th, dropping two in 13th, went deep with three drops in 14th par 4, before he bogeyed in 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th for the last 20 points. Kitale’s Zenah Jepchirchir finished second with 41 points, beating Eldoret’s Satwinder Sagoo on countback. Former captain and former lady captain Anand Lakhani and Esther Chumo were the longest driver winners in men and women on hole 6 as Nandi Bear’s Elly Barno won the nearest to pin prize in hole 5. Barno, who has been consistent in the Kenya Amateur Golf Championships (KAGC), finishing position eight overall, was on the podium again to receive the gross winner title after firing two over par 73. Former Kitale captain Stephen Malakwen, on 38 points, was the staff winner as Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos managed to win the guest prize on 29 points. Adah Mukhenjo won the best effort prize with 23 points. Top ten finishers