When you hear the word self-care, what comes to mind? Usually, people automatically think of going to the Spa, getting massages, putting on face masks, and getting their nails done. But self-care goes beyond just booking a weekend at the Spa after a stressful week. Practising self-care needs a much wider approach. Self-care comes in ways that are physical, social, mental, spiritual, and emotional. Mothers often feel guilty for taking time to take care of themselves for a change but it is vital that they get that much-needed Tender Love and Care (TLC). Self-care is not something to just be done over the weekend. Any day is an opportunity for taking care of yourself. Working moms can practice self-care by: 1. Asking for help. Asking for help entails asking your family to help out so you feel less overwhelmed trying to juggle everything like a Supermom. You can ask your spouse or partner to help cook when you get home as you take care of the dishes or the kids. You are super but supermoms also get burned out. 2. Drinking plenty of water. Sometimes working moms (and even stay-at-home moms) may feel very cranky and almost on edge. You may find yourself lashing out at your children, spouse, house help, even your colleagues. Make sure you stay hydrated throughout the day so your metabolism can stay balanced. This will prevent you from having a headache. 3. Eating! Have breakfast, lunch or a snack if you need to but do not forget to eat. Supermoms are not just fueled by inspiration from their families, they are also powered by food. 4. Having a routine for winding down. Once you get home after a workday, have a routine for winding down. Maybe after having dinner,  sneak away for a nice, long soak in the tub or hot shower before going to bed. Or maybe you can read a good book, listen to music or write a to-do list for the next day. It depends on what you like to do to relax. 5. Being selfish. Working moms should safeguard their quality time and protect it at all costs. Never feel guilty for prioritising yourself because it is detrimental to your mental health and overall wellbeing. Take your leave days unapologetically because you deserve it. Supermoms need rest too.