Five women have so far publicly declared an interest to vie for the Kirinyaga woman representative seat in the August 9 election. They include former county director of administration Rose Wachira, former Kirinyaga assembly speaker Ann Wangechi Githinji and sales  professional Sandra Njoki. Others are private detective Jane Mugo and businesswoman Emma Wambui. The incumbent, Wangui Ngirici, announced that she will not be defending her seat but will be seeking the governor seat currently occupied by Governor Anne Waiguru. Following  the February 9 deadline requiring all civil servants vying for various political positions to resign from their positions, Wachira quit on Monday bringing to an end her administration career spanning seven years at the Kutus-based county headquarters office. Wachira joined the county during the third year of devolution, and was tasked with the responsibility of ensuring a smooth flow of  devolved functions. She was also responsible for ensuring that all staff transitioning from the national government to the devolved units were well settled. Wachira also oversaw the proper identification of assets and liabilities belonging to the county as well as ensuring that the county integrated development programme was put in place. She added that she seeks to use the massive wealth of experience she has gained as a top county administrator in legislating transformative policies and projects should she capture the seat. Top on her agenda is ensuring that there is a strong framework for the full implementation of the Devolution Act which, according to her, is unsatisfactorily fulfilled. Moreover, as a professional counsellor, Wachira said she intends to lobby for the establishment of a public rehabilitation centre at the Kerugoya County Referral Hospital. The facility will be pivotal in correcting and rehabilitating the high number of children, teens and youths trapped into alcohol and drug substance abuse across the county . Wachira is fondly known as ‘Shujaa Rose’ for having bagged two presidential awards among the five national medals credited under her belt. This is due to her dedication in community-related projects. On the other hand, Githinji, who was the first county assembly speaker, said she intends to combine her devolution and 20 years legal expertise in amending, repealing or enacting laws that will be resourceful in uplifting the lives of horticultural farmers. Speaking to the Star by phone, she added that she will use her position in legislating favourable laws that shall empower and strengthen capacity building in women and youths to ensure responsible utilisation of funds available to these special groups. Banking on her experience under the devolved system, she said she ensured smooth enactment of laws governing issuance of bursaries, ward development funds, health transformation and efficient water Githinji said she will be disclosing to the residents the political party she will be vying on, but at the moment she was still listening to views from the ground. Njoki, who has since declared her candidature on an UDA ticket, said once elected she intends to use her administrative skills to uplift the financial status of the three recognised special groups. She added that she will apply a different method to ensure that the National Government Affirmative Action Fund allocated to the woman representative docket boosts the lives of the intended recipients. “For the funds to serve their intended purpose, I intend to help members come up with profitable income generating projects that are in sync with the business environment ,” she said. Njoki further said she will help provide the members with key information by connecting them with financial professionals and  institutions to help them sustain their projects and exploit their capabilities to the maximum. She added that, though it is her first time in politics, she believes the voters will believe in her manifesto and, in return, give her an opportunity to serve them.