I watch as Sgt Sophia checks her official weapon and slides it carefully into the holster, hanging on her belt. Her wide hip won’t let the damn thing lay snuggly on her side. This morning, she came into the house wrapped in nothing but a towel, and in the same way she tortures me every day, she had turned around, dropped the towel and began oiling her flawless skin. Dear Lord, how I had longed to run my hand along that hip. She would have let me, that’s not the issue, the problem is that rubbing is all that would have come of it, which would mean meeting Ponda Mali’s team with a boner the size of a Maasai rungu. As usual, having bathed before her, I beat a hasty escape to the Police Post. “I don’t get it,” I say, steering my thoughts back to the work at hand. “Why do we have to do it?” “We’re on security detail because it’s our job.” She hesitates with one sleeve of her jacket halfway done. “Is it politics you hate so much or is it Ponda Mali the man?” “That’s like asking me if it’s a cobra’s bite I fear or the snake itself. One doesn’t come without the other.” She laughs. “Wow. You went straight to snake, not even a pee break at say, gin and tonic? Those two also go together, don’t they?” “Would you please get done already? The more we stand here, the more my headache climbs up a notch.” “Oh, you have a headache?” She runs a soft hand over my temple. I swat it off. “No, but in a few minutes, a fake headache will become real and I’ll have to call in sick.” Having found no suitable accommodations in our lowly Jiji Ndogo, Ponda Mali and his crew arrive from their overnight stay at the more pretentious Kericho town. The MP’s eyes roam all over Sophia, devouring her alive, clothes and all. “Officer Kali,” he drools, “any way I can convince you to flee this fleapit and come back to the city with me? I could use such a… gifted member in my security team.” “Good morning, mheshimiwa.” I stretch out a hand. “How’s Mrs Ponda Mali and the kids?” He ignores my gesture. Squinting, he points to Sophia, then to me. “Are you two, you know…” “Dating? I’ll have you know—” Ponda Mali laughs so hard I almost pull out my gun and shoot him in the damn mouth. His boys join in, guffawing like hyenas in a pack. Ponda Mali claps a hand on my shoulder. “Son, have you ever heard the expression, ‘Ukiona vyaelea, vyaundwa’? It means, money talks. You, getting involved with such a knockout broad like this, is like an illiterate person buying a book. Only others will read it. C’mon boys, let’s hit the road.” “Burn!” a Ponda Mali henchman tells another. The two slap high-fives, laughing at my expense. As we hop into the back of the politician’s mammoth SUV, I’m fuming like a Grade Three boy who’s lost a marble. “What’s your problem?” Sophia asks, buckling up. “He called you a ‘knockout broad’,” I whisper. “Like what decade is he from, 19-I’m-older-than-Moses?” “You know I can hear you, boy,” Ponda Mali says from the middle seat. “And yes, my name is Aaron. I only changed it to Ponda Mali for politics.” “Double burn!” The henchmen up front slap palms once more. “Maybe you should quit while you’re ahead, Makini,” Sophia says. “Sometimes you just have to throw in the towel.”