The Senate Health Committee is investigating the transfer of a piece of land meant for a public hospital to a private developer in Parklands, Nairobi. The land was previously occupied by Highridge clinic. The probe stemmed from a petition by nominated Senator Millicent Omanga, who sought the House intervention following a public outcry. “We shall seek to find out whether due process was followed,” committee chairman Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito said. On Monday, the nine-member committee visited the site on a fact-finding mission. During the visit, the senators found the facility has been relocated within Parklands. The developer was already putting up an apartment. The senators could not access the site as the gates were locked. The onsite guard said he had been locked inside. However, they could ascertain the structure was past the fourth floor. The project approval numbers by Nairobi City County, National Construction Authority and Nema were featured on the board outside the site. “Regrettably, this unclear and unacceptable move is denying the residents of Parklands-Highridge ward access to proximate and affordable health services,” Mbito said. Nairobi Metropolitan Services director for health Ouma Oluga, who accompanied the committee to the site, said NMS was already constructing a new Level Three facility at a parcel occupied by the ward office. The committee condemned the decision to relocate the facility and allocate public land to a private investor. Mbito said the panel will summon all the agencies concerned, including the NMS boss Mohammed Badi, Nairobi governor Anne Kananu and the developer to explain how the piece of land was exchanged. In her petition to the House in November last year, Omanga sought to know whether public participation was conducted before the property was allocated to the private developer. She wanted to know whether NMS and NCC were involved in the transfer of the facility. “I used to come for treatment at this clinic when I was young, but today, private developers have taken up the land,” Omanga said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris