Police in Ndhiwa are probing a raid at the hotel of Homa Bay Woman Rep aspirant Mary Ojodeh. Suspected criminals broke into the offices of Ndhiwa Village Resort, vandalised CCTV cameras, stole two television gadgets, a laptop, Wi-Fi rooter and cash box at the restaurant and bar. Mary is the wife of former Assistant Minister for Internal Security, the late Joshua Orwa Ojodeh. Gordon Onyango, the hotel operations manager, said the incident happened on Monday morning between 3am to 4am, when they had gone to sleep. Onyango said they took away three gas cylinders and sufurias. None of the suspects has been arrested. There was a power outage when the incident occurred. Onyango said they have recorded statements at Ndhiwa police station. “We have never witnessed such an incident for a long time at this hotel. We request the police to investigate and arrest the people behind it,” he said. Speaking to journalists, Ojodeh linked the incident to politics. She accused the unnamed opponents of resorting to destroying her personal properties instead of focusing on politics. Ojodeh said her opponents have realised she is becoming popular in the county after she declared her interest in the woman representative seat. “The act must be condemned and people behind it get arrested to avoid a repeat of the same. Let’s compete on ideologies,” Ojodeh said. The aspirants said some unknown people with a motorbike blocked her from going to the hotel where the incident occurred after receiving information about the raid. She said the men did not want her to access the hotel from her home. Ojodeh’s home is in Unga village in Kanyamwa Kosewe ward. “I was forced to branch to another home after I heard one of the men who were trailing me on a motorbike, shout out my name,” she said. Ndhiwa subcounty police commander Paul Rioba said they are investigating the matter. Area officer commanding station Evans Mosota said they will assess the damage and promised to take legal action against the suspects “We’re on the ground for investigations,” Mosota said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris