Six Kenyan university students will represent the country at the next level of the annual Huawei ICT competition after winning national titles. Terence Omondi from the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and Rush Morgan from the United States International University  topped in the network and cloud tracks respectively. Besides, six teams comprising of eighteen students will be proceeding to the continental competition to be held virtually on February 19. They comprise three teams competing under the network track from The University of Nairobi, JKUAT and Machakos University, two teams representing the cloud track from Kenyatta University and Laikipia University and one team under the innovation track from Kenyatta University. Themed "Connection, Glory, Future", the ICT extravaganza promotes the growth and employment of young ICT professionals from universities and other tertiary institutions globally. Speaking at the national screening and award ceremony, Kevin Wen, director, Enterprise Business Group at Huawei Kenya said the  firm is committed to the development of digital skills among local youth. He added that the Huawei ICT competition provides an opportunity for university students to gain practical skills, boost employment chances or capacity to venture into digital enterprises. “The success of the Huawei ICT Competition can only be attributed to the strong partnership Huawei has built with various institutions of higher learning,'' Wen said. Over the past five years, Huawei has signed cooperation agreements with over 250 universities in 14 Sub-Saharan countries, including Nigeria, Kenya, and South Africa. The partnership launched in 2018 has enabled more than 7,000 university students to obtain Huawei ICT certification, giving them and edge for ICT-related jobs. Kenya's ICT principal secretary Jerome Ochieng said the changing job market demands for information technology skills. He said Kenya’s human capital needs will continue to grow as the economy expands. “The evolving nature of our economy, which now has a large digital component, requires our people to adjust rapidly to the shifting demands for skills and the attendant technologies that are driving this demand,” Ochieng said. Unesco is also part of the Huawei ICT skills development programme which brings on-board more than 40 universities and colleges. Unesco's East Africa head Saidou Jallow said to withstand future disruptions there is need for training institutions to prioritise market-oriented content.