Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth has said he is ready to work with ODM leader Raila Odinga should he be appointed as his running mate. This comes as the jostling for the position intensifies as the April 9 deadline for candidates to name their running mates draws closer. Last month, the IEBC announced that political parties intending to present a candidate in the presidential election will have to submit the names of the people contesting in the party primaries, the date and venues of the primaries on or before April 9, 2022, 21 days before the nomination day. Other leaders touted for the position from the Mt Kenya region include Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua. Kenneth said though the running mate position is not elective, the people of Murang’a would celebrate if the position was given to the county. “The person vying is the one who decides who they want to vie with but many have said the position should come to Central and Murang’a in particular,” he said. He however added that Raila should be given time to decide the best running mate for him without being pressured. Kenneth said this while meeting elders from Kiama Kia Ma council who gave him their blessings and affirmed their support for President Uhuru Kenyatta. The former Gatanga MP said the Uhuru intends to visit the county soon accompanied by the ODM leader and the elders will help plan how the duo will be welcomed. The elders were also asked to talk to residents to standing firmly behind the Azimio la Umoja movement ahead of the visit. Kenneth told off politicians in the Kenya Kwanza Alliance that is affiliated with Deputy President William Ruto, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya chairperson Moses Wetang'ula for disrespecting the President. Many leaders, he added, insult the President while others clap but the presidency represents the nation’s sovereignty and should be respected. “Even if they were elected, they would want the same respect. Let us compete on how we can grow our country without insulting each other or causing chaos. Politics is not enmity,” he said. He said leaders should seek Kenyans’ support without bitterness and respect each other, adding that Raila is the best candidate due to his vast political experience. “Raila has vied four times unsuccessfully and nobody called him a project. He is the project of the country not an individual and will help unite this country," Kenneth said. Ndung’u Ngaari, the chairperson of Kiama Kia Ma elders in Gatanga subcounty said they endorsed Kenneth as an ideal running mate for Raila due to his past development record. Further, the elders said Kenneth is the senior most politician in the area and has a national appeal. “Every home is led by a man. Wherever Uhuru tells us to go, it is because he can see the danger of following other routes. As elders, we will go to our wives and children and give them this information,” he said. The elders also praised Raila for dedicating the better part of his life to fight for the country. His sentiments were echoed by another elder, Maina Muiruri, who said they will continue following Kenneth and have given him their blessings to continue supporting the President. Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi, on his part, outlined the development effected by Kenneth while he served as an MP which saw him serve as assistant minister for Finance. The President, Nduati said, will continue to lead the Jubilee Party while leading coalition talks with ODM and reaching out to those who have deserted the party to come back and work with him. “The President will be coming to Gatanga to inspect the many development projects being done by his government in the area."  (edited by Amol Awuor)