Bungoma has taken Covid-19 vaccines to villages to ease access and increase uptake. Bungoma county commissioner Samuel Kimiti said those who do not get vaccinated will be denied service in public offices. He was speaking in Cheptais, Mt Elgon, during the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in villages. "This is not an exercise that is being done only in Bungoma. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe launched this exercise in Nairobi and tasked us to continue with sensitisation in counties, subcounties, locations, sub-locations and villages," Kimiti said. He said this strategy is aimed at achieving the government's target. The government plans to vaccinate all adults against Covid-19 by the end of the year. To achieve herd immunity, the Ministry of Health has said it needs to vaccinate at least 19 million adult Kenyans by June. The government has been working towards vaccinating a targeted population of 27 million by the end of 2022 after hitting the 10 million 2021 December targets. So far, Kenya has received 24.6 million vaccines, mostly from bilateral donations. In his appeal, Kimiti urged village elders from Bungoma to ensure residents are vaccinated, dismissing claims that the vaccines have side effects. "I want to assure you that these jabs are safe. The government cannot bring a substance that will kill this generation. Many people have been vaccinated and I have not heard anybody dying because he/she received the jab. I'm among those who got vaccinated," Kimiti said. He asked school heads to ensure learners who are above the age of 15 years also get vaccinated. "The Ministry of Health has directed health officers who will be visiting schools to vaccinate learners. I want to ask school heads to allow them and carry on with the exercise," Kimiti said. He was accompanied by health officers who administered vaccines to Cheptais residents. Kimiti decried the low turnout during the voter registration that ended on Sunday. He urged Bungoma residents to always take advantage of government directives. "Let's not always turn a deaf ear to serious issues as directed by the government. Let us adhere to it and it will help us and our future generations," he added. Edited by A.N