United Democratic Alliance has dismissed the Jubilee party’s attempt to have it de-registered for stealing data and claiming to be the most popular party in the country. In a statement, UDA secretary-general Veronica Maina said the Jubilee party has no mandate or jurisdiction to audit or account for other Political Parties Membership other than its own. She said the office of the registrar of political parties is the custodian of all Party membership Registers. This comes after the ruling party accused DP William Ruto’s party of manipulating its membership data. “The days of using ill-informed 'Big Brother' tactics to manipulate and control independent and popular parties ended with the promulgation of the progressive 2010 Constitution,” Maina said. UDA said that since its inception, it embarked on and is conducting vigorous recruitment of members in all 47 counties. “These activities have been ongoing with emphasis on grassroots support in tandem with our 'Bottom-Up' economic model approach. Our county, constituency, and ward coordinators together with our robust head office team have meticulously documented thus this process to guarantee accuracy.” She said records were availed to and always available for audit by the Office of Registrar Of Political Parties (ORPP). “In their capacity and in conducting their due diligence, the ORPP has previously done random audits of party membership. UDA is an open continuous audit by the ORPP. “We understand the panic and attempts by the Jubilee party to drag us into their party's resuscitation efforts. For a party that embarked on a vicious and systematic purge of its own members, with high profile humiliation of parliamentary and party leadership, we are surprised that you now realize you do not have members.” The secretary-general told the ruling outfit saying they wasted an opportunity to build a formidable party with a huge support base. “Jubilee, which has never held elections of their party officials, stole their countless chances to be a party of historic consequence and wasted them all on shameful displays of immaturity and shortsighted shows of might. The chickens have come home to roost.” Also, UDA asked Jubilee to prepare for another mass movement of members from their party to UDA in the coming days. “This time around, members are using their e-citizen platforms and we can only imagine Jubilee's reaction to this shift in the political landscape. UDA Party is also inviting our bonafide members who are over 10 million-plus to confirm the status of their Jubilee Party resignations on the E-citizen platform and if need be re-apply again for the same.”