Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of playing a tribal card during Wednesday's Sagana III meeting. Speaking during an aspirant meeting in Kanduyi, Wetang’ula said that the president should rise above tribe and community and unite all Kenyans. “When you are president you should be above tribe, it is unfortunate that people are not advising the president properly. Kenyans are uneasy to see you as president retreat somewhere and talk politics of tribe or region,” said Wetang'ula. He said President Uhuru was elected by the whole of Kenya and Kenyans feel jittery and betrayed that the president they elected is retreating into cocoons to talk about the politics of tribe. “It is very unfortunate that the president who is supposed to be the symbol of unity is now dividing Kenyans along tribal lines,” said Wetang'ula. The senator said Uhuru had only one vote and should give Kenyans an opportunity to decide who will succeed him. “Don’t midwife your succession because it will terribly fail just the way the late President Daniel Moi failed with you in 2002,” said Wetang'ula. He called on Uhuru to learn from Mwai Kibaki who after finishing his term left Kenyans to decide their next president. “The moment you impose someone on Kenyans they will obviously reject him/ her,” he said. He said as Kenya Kwanza Alliance, they always view ODM leader Raila Odinga as a state project as long President Uhuru continues to campaign for him. He further accused Raila of transforming himself from a crusader of people's rights to a puppet. He, however, said as Kenya Kwanza, they were ready to face Raila in the August polls. He said the Alliance was well prepared to win the next elections. Wetang’ula, at the same time, called on the president to stop using public resources to campaign for the former prime minister, saying the Sagana meeting was fully funded by the state. “We are calling on the president to stop misusing state resources and if he has to, then he should use it on all political parties without bias,” said Wetang’ula. Wetang’ula said Uhuru should not worry about Kenya Kwanza's win, saying they would accord him all privileges of former presidents when they form the next government.