Home Bay woman Rep Gladys Wanga on Sunday heaped praises on her husband saying he saved her from 'Kano plains floods'. Speaking in Luo language, Wanga narrated how her husband - George Wanga - saved her from drowning in the plains. “George is the person who got me out of Kano where there are too many floods. He is the 'cock' of my home who braced through the floods and mud just to come and get me,” she said amid smiles and peals of laughter. Speaking when she unveiled her Homa Bay gubernatorial bid, Wanga condemned those who wanted her to go back to her maternal home in Kano. “There are people who wanted me to go back and yet this man (George) had already saved me from the trouble in that place! I am not boarding…I am not boarding,” she said. “Can you leave such a man? Can you leave what God has given you to the devil?" she said as the crowd shouted No! When her husband took the podium, George began by praising his wife saying they had discussed Wanga's urge to go for the governor position. "It was an honour for giving my wife the opportunity to serve you. She wrote to me sometimes back saying that she wanted to be a governor.” "She told me that she was past women rep position and now wanted a bigger position. I gave it a thought and after one week I gave her my reply,” he said. As he said this, he praised Wanga with many Luo names depicting the strength of a woman. “I told her the hiccups that make men awake... I told her that my wish is for her to go for the post and that is how I released her," he said. "I have released my wife to serve you people. I want to request that you take care of her on my behalf.” Wanga is competing for the seat against former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Suba South MP and ODM national chairman John Mbadi, Awiti’s deputy Hamilton Orata and the former county secretary Isaiah Ogwe. Others are Kuppet secretary-general Akelo Misori, businessmen Louis Ogingo and Jared Kiasa. Through its leader Raila Odinga, the party had said they will prioritise consensus and direct nominations as methods of picking the candidate. Homa Bay is one of the bedrocks of the ODM as the majority of residents support the party. The county has at least 513,000 registered voters according to the latest IEBC record.