Bandari head coach Casa Mbungo is pleading with the club's ardent fans to exercise some patience as the team battle to break the jinx of dwindling fortunes that has dogged them in their recent fixtures. Mbungo and his charges have come under heavy censure following a spate of poor results. The dockers suffered back-to-back defeats at the hands of champions Tusker in a space of five days. The brewers first crushed them 2-0 at Ruaraka grounds last Wednesday before handing them a similar defeat in their own backyard at Mbaraki Sports Club. “They only need to appreciate the fact that there are moments the going gets tough in the top-flight league, but that doesn't mean it's all over for us. “We are still very much in contention for the title given our favourable position in the league standings. I believe we have learned our lessons already and we shall make the necessary amends to our shortcomings before our subsequent fixtures,” said Mbungo. Mbungo attributed their torrid run in recent matches to a squad weighed down by incessant injuries. The dockers are seventh on the Kenyan premier League log with 25 points from 17 matches. They have won six of their encounters while sharing spoils in the same number of matches and losing five times. “Honestly, it is far fetched to ever dream of winning matches when you have seven of your regular squad members down with injuries. “Faraj Ominde and Keegan Ndemi are both nursing shoulder injuries while  Whyvonne Isuza and Johana Mwita have heel fractures,”  he said. Mbungo said the absence of forwards Dennis Magige and Umar Kasumba had complicated the already delicate situation given they have also joined the growing list of injuries. “We've been playing well but goals have not been forthcoming because of a blunt attack occasioned by the absence of the regular forwards," he revealed. The gaffer said plans to plug in the glaring loopholes detected in the malfunctioning positions fell through given the dire financial constraints most Kenyan clubs are grappling with at the moment. “I had proposed some names that could be brought on board to strengthen the squad but things didn't work out according to plan given we are financially strained at the moment,” said Mbungo. Mbungo said he doesn't think a drastic change in weather conditions has taken a huge toll on some of the players he acquired from Nairobi. “Faraj, Isuza, and Aloro have been outstanding in the few matches they have featured in so far,” said Mbungo.