More than 130 Deputy County Commissioners were reshuffled in major changes announced by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho. The changes come ahead of major political developments and the August polls. DCC are like District Commissioners in the old and defunct constitution. Kibicho announced the changes in a memo dated February 11 to Regional Commissioners. He ordered them to move immediately. Khalif Abdulahi was moved to Nakuru West, Fred Sungu (Kiminini), Michael Yator (Changamwe), Meshak Mwangi (Eldas), Alinoor Duba (Bungoma Central), Felix Wafula (Ugunja), Daniel Mwendwa (Lamu East), Hussein Alason (Kisumu Central) and Victor Kamonde (Bomet Central). Solomon Kiptoo was moved to Soy, Philip Koima (Endebes), John Maina (Githurai), Jeremiah Tumo (Pokot Central), James Koskey (Harambee House) and Reuben Kipkech to Msambweni. The officials are key in running government affairs in the regions, counties and sub-counties. Maalim Mohamed was on January 11 named the Rift Valley Regional Commissioner as that North Eastern Nicodemus Ndalana was moved to Harambee House and replaced by Nairobi’s James Kianda while Eastern’s Isaiah Nakoru was moved to Western in the same capacity and replaced by Narok County Commissioner Evans Achoki on a promotional basis. The changes were meant to enhance operations in the areas ahead of the polls, officials said. Regional Commissioners usually chair security meetings and other national administration issues. The former provincial administration was restructured to accommodate the new commissioners. This followed the ushering of the 2010 constitution. The RCs replaced Provincial Commissioners in the new dispensation. They chair and coordinate national government issues in their regions, including security matters. National Administration is one of the Departments in the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government with a staff complement of 12,575, which includes eight Regional Coordinators, 47 County Commissioners, 289 Deputy County Commissioners, 831 Assistant County Commissioners, 3,256 Chiefs and 8,145 Assistant Chiefs