Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has questioned the spending of Sh2.9 billion by the Baringo  government to pay staff salaries and said records indicate payroll tampering. Gathungu in her latest audit for 2019-20 said changes were illegally made to the county payroll during the period under review. The county is headed by Governor Stanley Kiptis. She said the county statement of receipts and payments reflects compensation of employees totalling Sh2.9 billion, which includes arrears of Sh38 million. The auditor questioned the source of the arrears, which were not explained by the administration. “The staff files sampled during the audit did not indicate the nature and causes of the arrears, including the periods over which they occurred or the budgeted expenditure programmes they related to," the auditor said. Further, she said the changes in the payroll were made without authority from the heads of departments. Gathungu noted that the payroll changes violated Regulation 119(1) of the Public Finance Management (County Governments) Regulations, 2015. It prescribes segregation of duties in recording and authorising payments, among other internal control requirements. “In view of these issues, the accuracy and validity of the compensation of employees expenditure totalling Sh2.9 billion could not be confirmed, the audit report read. Gathungu has also questioned the continued operation of 192 bank accounts by the county yet details of balances and other records were not provided for audit. She said as previously reported, the county government operated  192 commercial bank accounts that it uses to disburse funds to dispensaries. Gathungu said  the accounts were not disclosed in the financial statements. The audit sought to obtain confirmations on the existence of the accounts and their respective balances as at June 30, 2020, but the banks did not respond to the audit letters. “As a result, the undisclosed bank balances as at June 30, 2020, held in 192 commercial bank accounts could not be confirmed," the audit report read. Gathingu also questioned financial operations and accounts related to the popular Kimalel Goat Auction. She said the expenditure records further reflected transfers to Kimalel Goat Auction account totalling Sh10.2 million. That amount comprised Sh6.7 million spent on printing, advertisement and information supplies and services. The account also reflected goat sale receipts totalling Sh 15.2 million as at  June 30, 2020. But they were neither banked into the County Revenue Fund account nor disclosed in the financial statements. She said the account for the Kimalel Goat Auction was also illegally operated. The auditor also said examination of the bank statements revealed cash withdrawals totalling Sh26.1 million that were not supported by cashbook entries, payment vouchers, schedules as well as budget and expenditure returns. (Edited by V. Graham)