A Nairobi court has directed a money laundering case involving over Sh 791 million National Youth Service (NYS) scandal against prime suspects Josephine Kabura, businessman Ben Gethi, and nine others to be mentioned on February 21. Milimani chief magistrate Susan Shitubi who has taken over the trial of the case from chief magistrate Martha Mutuku who has since been transferred to Mombasa Law Courts gave the direction on Wednesday. In this case, Kabura and Gethi are charged alongside a city lawyer Patrick Onyango Ogolla, John Kago, Samuel Wachenje, Anthony Gethii Kihara, Benson Gachoka, John Hope Vandamme, Martin Gachara Wanjohi, Charity Wangu, and Jedidah Gethi. All the accused are out on cash bail of Sh300,000 or an alternative bond of Sh 1 million each. All the eleven suspects have since denied 16 counts relating to transactions that the prosecution says involved the stolen funds. According to the prosecution, the accused are alleged to have committed the offence between December 2014 and April 2015. The accused persons are accused of allegedly colluding to wire the amount from NYS coffers and using part of it to purchase property through phony companies. The prosecution says the property was bought including Range Rover, Jeep Cherokee, Toyota Prado, Land Cruiser, plots and houses in Roselyn Estate, clay city house property, Ruiru Juja East, Muthaiga  North, Mercury House in Moi Avenue, Juja Farm, and a plot in Thika using the NYS cash but concealed under pseudo company names. Kabura, Gethi, Kago, and Ogolla are accused of arranging the purchase of a Range Rover worth Sh 23.4 million with proceeds of crime between December 22, 2014, and August 7, 2015. Kabura and John Kago denied that they bought a car costing Sh6.3 million from the stolen NYS money. In another acount, the prosecution says Samuel Mudanyi Wachenje alias Sam Mwadime engaged in the purchase of a Toyota Prado KCE 874R worth Sh5.2 million shillings with money stolen from NYS. Another count Kabura, Kago, Anthony Kihara Gethi, and John Hope Vandamme are accused of arranging for the purchase of a Land Cruiser KCD 536P valued at Sh5.07 million with part of the Sh 791 million siphoned from NYS. Kago, Kihara, and Kinuthia also allegedly purchased a Toyota Land Cruiser worth Sh5.2 million with the same money. Kabura and Mundanyi are accused of the purchase of Clay City House property costing Sh21 Million from the stolen NYS Money. They are further accused that between December 1, 2014, and April 30, 2015, Kabura, Kago, Charity Wangui Gethi, Patrick Ogolla Onyango and Gachara Wanjohi arranged the transfer of Sh77.6 million shillings to an account belonging to Gethi’s mother at Faulu Kenya, among other counts. Gethi is accused of arranging the purchase of a Range Rover vehicle worth Sh23 million with proceeds of crime between December 31, 2014, and April 30, 2015. Kabura, Kago, and lawyer Ogolla are alleged to have engaged in an arrangement for the transfer of Sh90 million into K-rep Ban Account belonging to Patrick Ogolla Onyango T/A Ogola and company Advocates on dates between December 1, 2014, and May 30, 2015, in Nairobi County.