 Tatu City has received its telecom operating license to provide internet service to businesses and residents in and around the 5,000-acre. It is connected to the country's leading national backbone internet fibre, allowing residents and businesses flexibility for connectivity to Kenya Internet Exchange Point (KIXP) and global telecommunication providers. The license classifies Tatu Telecom Company, the trading entity, as a Network Facilities Provider (NFP) Tier 2 and Application Service Provider (ASP). Alex Kahu, head of utilities, Tatu City said: “This is a major milestone for us as it underpins our commitment to provide the best in class utility services in Tatu City. We are confident in our infrastructure and are leveraging on it to accommodate all major internet service providers in Tatu.” As Kenya’s first operational Special Economic Zone, it is home to more than 60 businesses that can enjoy 10 per cent corporate tax for 10 years, and 15 per cent for the subsequent 10 years. Businesses in Tatu are also exempted from import duty and enjoy zero-rated VAT, among other business-friendly benefits. “We have laid 13.9 km of fiber optic cable and intend to lay another 29.4 km by the end of 2022 in Tatu City. We are responsive to people working from home and businesses which need seamless internet connectivity for their operations,” said Kahu. The smart city is currently serving more than 250 residential and commercial customers, including schools and local, regional and multinational companies. Tatu Telecom offers internet with record browsing speeds, reliability and robust troubleshooting measures facilitated by in-house engineers. It has also built an open-access network that allows multiple internet service providers to serve Tatu City residents and businesses. The city has invested more than Sh 25 billion in infrastructure and development, achieving notable milestones such as completing its 135MVA power substation. It also has more than 30 kilometres of tarmacked roads and 5 million litres of water storage, with a planned expansion to accommodate 30 million litres of water.