The director of a maternity and nursing home is expected to appear before a joint inquiry on Monday for the hearing and determination of sexual assault allegations against him. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council last week directed the director, M G, to appear before the joint committee comprising health regulatory bodies after an expose by NTV dubbed “Doctored Evil.” The piece documented allegations of sexual assault against him and some staff members at the facility. The facility located in Laikipia has since been shut by the government due to the nature of the allegations raised and patients who were admitted at the nursing home transferred to other health facilities. “The chief executive officer [of] NHIF is also requested to ensure that any of the affected patients who are covered under the National Hospital Insurance Fund are facilitated appropriately,” KMPDC chief executive Daniel Yumbya said in a statement. The letter was copied to Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache, KMPDC chairperson Eva Njenga, NHIF chief executive Peter Kamunyo and Laikipia Health executive Rose Maitai. The Nursing Council of Kenya in a statement said M G, the proprietor of the nursing home, did not have a valid practicing license hence had been operating as a nurse contrary to the provisions of the Nurses and Midwives Act, Cap 257. “In lieu of the above, the council together with other health regulatory bodies have commenced investigations into the professional conduct of the nurse," Nursing Council of Kenya CEO Edna Tallam said. "[The investigations will also look into the] suitability of the maternity and nursing home to render medical services to the people of Laikipia county. “Patients, members of the public or co-workers who may have complaints against M G are hereby invited to lodge a complaint with the council by filing an official complaint form on our website.” The council has maintained that the alleged actions and conduct of Mbugua are in contravention of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, Sexual Offences Act No 3 of 2006, Penal Code, chapter 63, the Nurses and Midwives Act and other relevant laws in the country. (edited by Amol Awuor)