A new regional police commander for North Eastern region was Friday named in changes announced by police headquarters. Mandera County police boss George Seda was promoted and named the regional police commander for North Eastern to replace Rono Bunei who moved to Eastern in the same capacity. Eastern police boss Ronald Opili was recalled to police headquarters, Vigilance House in the changes announced on January 28. The changes saw S Tanui named as the new commander for Mandera County. The areas face various security challenges including terrorism, inter clan fighting and cattle rustling. Regional Commissioner for North Eastern Nicodemus Ndalana was on January 11 moved to Harambee House and replaced by Nairobi’s James Kianda. Eastern’s Isaiah Nakoru was moved to Western in the same capacity and replaced by Narok County Commissioner Evans Achoki on a promotional basis. At the DCI, the head director of planning Joseph Mugwanja swapped positions with the director of forensics Nicholas Kamwende in the changes that were announced on January 18. The head of legal unit at the DCI Amos Omuga was moved to the DCI Academy as the deputy head in the changes announced by DCI boss George Kinoti. Augustine Kitonyi will be the acting head of legal unit at DCI. The new head of Land Fraud Unit will be George Mutonya. He replaced Geoffrey Kinyua who was moved to Central region DCI offices. The changes were meant to enhance operations in the areas, officials said. On January 27, at least 30 sub county commanders popularly known as OCPDs were on January 27 moved in changes announced by police headquarters. The changes saw Central Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Adamson Bungei moved to Turkana Central and swapped position with David Mburukua. Others named include Moses Owiti (Samburu Central), Eric Yego (Narok West), Alex Rotich (Vigilance operations), Lucy Kananu (Lari), Charles Laboso (Bumula) and David Ogetii (Kisumu Central). More changes are expected ahead of polls campaigning period. Police headquarters said the changes are aimed at enhancing operations at large and that they were normal.