The Kenya Shooting Sports Federation have lined up a series of women-only competitions this year to encourage more ladies to take up the sport. International Pistol Shooting Confederation (IPSC) Kenya League chairman Memba Muriuki said the tournaments will bridge the gender gap in the sport by increasing the number of lady shooters as well as improve their performances. "We are trying to raise the profile of the game in the country and that means we also do grassroots development. We are also keen on gender and inclusivity and as a result, we organised a women-only shooting event at the end of last year. We intend to have more this year,” Muriuki said. Muriuki revealed that they have started early preparations for the IPSC World Championships in Thailand in December and will be using the national shooting league competitions to select representatives to the global showpiece. "The games were to be held in December last year but were postponed due to Covid-19. We are hoping to send a team to Thailand and we, therefore, need to begin preparing early. We will be using the national league to select the shooters and also as an opportunity to bring in new blood into the sport," he said. The development comes after KSSF announced plans for a talent nurturing programme last year to identify and empower young shooters in preparation for this year's Africa Youth Games in Cairo and the Africa Youth Olympics in 2026. Muriuki was speaking on the sidelines of a two-day  International Range Safety Officers Training at Pride Inn Hotel, Nairobi over the weekend. Approximately 15 safety officers attended the event during which they were educated on match ratings, match points, safety rules, qualifications of the game and international standards. Afterward, the safety officers were taken through a practical session at the Jockey Club of Kenya, along Ngong Road, during the initial leg of the national shooting league. Muriuki said the training is part of preparations for the Kenya Open IPSC Championship, slated for June 18-19 in Kenya. Fifteen countries have so far confirmed participation. "Today's session was to induct and train new range officers. As you know, we will be hosting the Kenya Open in June. Those in attendance today were 15 but we hope to have around 45 safety officers by June," he said. The training will be done in phases as KSSF seek to train more range safety officers in the near future.