Governor Jackson Mandago has pleaded with residents of Uasin Gishu to give him a chance to serve them in the Senate  to strengthen devolution. Mandago said as governor for 10 years he has learnt a lot about devolution, including its strengths and weaknesses, and he would like to contribute to strengthening devolution in the Upper House. "I know the challenges like scarce resources and delayed disbursement of funds to the counties and if elected I will,help change the situation so devolution works event better," Mandago said. Some leaders in the region led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi have questioned why Mandago wants to vie for Senate  after serving as governor for 10 years. Sudi had suggested Mandago concentrate on campaigning for DP William Ruto and give other people a chance to vie for the Senate seat. “In fact, Mandago should look for a national position and let other people compete for county seats," Sudi said, sparking debate in the county last month. But Mandago said he was a resident of Uasin Gishu and would still contribute to its affairs even after the end of his term. “I have the right to vie and I will humbly be requesting the people of Uasin Gishu to give another chance to serve them as senator," Mandago said. In the next  two weeks. he will officially launch his campaign for the Senate. He is expected to face lawyer Karori Kipchumba and former radio journalist Robert Kemei Mandago for the UDA ticket. Mandago said his score card in Uasin Gishu is evidence of success in his performance, hence, residents should back him as senator. Mandago said more than 80 per cent of the projects he initiated have been completed and the remaining few will be done before the elections. The governor has been on an extensive tour of the county to commission some of the projects he initiated. Current Senator Professor Margaret Kamar has not said if she will seek reelection but three weeks ago she was among leaders from the Rift Valley region who visited ODM leaderRaila Odinga. Mandago says the projects initiated by the county during his regime are in water, agriculture, and healthcare sectors, among others. Some of his legacy projects, including the Sh1.2 billion Ziwa Level 5 Hospital, are still in progress and Mandago said much of the work will be done before August. The race to succeed him as governor has attracted more than eight aspirants through UDA. Businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki will be vying as an independents Those seeking the UDA nominations include outgoing envoys Julius Bitok who was serving in Pakistan and Sarah Serem who was serving in China. Others are politician Jonathan Bii, MCA for Ngenyilel David Singo’ei and Soy MP Caleb Kositany. (Edited by V.Graham)