Vihiga county workers on Thursday reported back to work after a three-day strike that crippled services. The workers went on strike on Monday over alleged failure by the county administration to address delayed salaries and promotions. Environment and Finance departments were the most-hit as workers failed to collect garbage, parking fees and other daily levies. Luanda, Mbale and Chavakali towns were littered with garbage. Motorists also enjoyed free parking for the period. Vihiga county still uses manual payment of taxes in markets, parking and for all public service vehicles entering Mbale municipality. The workers blamed the County Public Service Board (CPSB) and the executive, led by Governor Wilber Ottichilo, saying they have failed to meet their end of bargain on staff promotions. Kenya County Government Workers Union (KCGWU) Vihiga branch chairman Moses Ambaso said on Tuesday they had agreed to suspend the strike to allow negotiations with their employers. Ambaso said the CPSB failed to address their grievances and ignored a 21-day strike notice the union had issued last month. "We had a meeting with CPSB and informed them about our intention to go on strike in case our grievances were not addressed. They promised to look into the issues raised but that was never actualised," the official said. Ambaso said it was unfair that even after several attempts to have the issue addressed, a lasting solution has not been found. Governor Ottichilo on Tuesday, who addressed the workers, said his hands were tied and there was nothing he could do to help the aggrieved employees. He accused the County Public Service Board of failing to consider promotions of the employees. "I cannot interfere with the public board as it is an independent body. Don't crucify me. You will be doing it to the wrong person," Ottichilo told the workers. CPSB chairman Franklin Esipila on Wednesday evening dismissed the allegations that his board was sabotaging staff promotion efforts. He said the workers should understand labour laws and avoid politics aimed at disrupting public functions and painting the CPSB in a bad light. "The board follows the law. It's bad for the staff to state that we are not doing enough," Esipila said. The board chairman said they will schedule a meeting with the executive and the workers' union to resolve the matter. Edited by A.N