Smelly feet, medically referred to as bromodosis are more common than people think. It's usually caused by a build up of sweat over an enclosed area, which results in bacteria growth on the skin. Bacteria collected in shoes, socks and on skin as well, this bacteria multiplies as it feeds on the dead skin cells and oils on your feet. As it breaks down, it releases a smelly odour. Fungal infections like athletes foot can also cause smelly feet. Although it's a common condition, it can make one feel self conscious, good news is that smelly feet are easy, inexpensive and quick to treat. Causes Your feet have more sweat glands than any other part of the body. These glands produce sweat throughout the day to keep your body cool and skin moist. But teenagers and pregnant women tend to sweat more because their bodies produce excess hormones. The feet naturally have some bacteria which breaks down the sweat as it is produced. If bacteria and sweat build up, a foul odour can form. Extra bacteria tend to form when one sweats in their shoes, takes them off and puts them back on without allowing them to dry properly. Infrequent foot washing and not changing your socks can also cause extra bacteria to form, which causes the odour to worsen. Remedies Use a mild soap and scrub brush to wash your feet at least once a day, then dry your feet thorough, paying special attention to in between your toes. Remove hard, dead skin from your feet with a foot file. Hard skin gets soggy and soft when it's wet creating a place for bacteria to thrive in. Change your socks at least once a day, especially if you have hyperhidrosis. This is a condition where one tends to abnormally sweat a lot, even in low temperatures. Wash your socks properly and make sure they are completely dry before wearing them. Have two or more pairs of shoes that you alternate wearing. This allows each pair to thoroughly dry out before being worn again. Remove the insoles in your shoes to help them dry and air better, as wet shoes allow bacteria to grow on your feet more quickly. If you need to quickly take care of your foot odour, it is safe to apply either: talcum powder, antiperspirant or deodorant spray to your feet. If athletes foot is what is causing your odour, get anti-fungal foot spray/cream or a medicated foot powder and apply once daily or as prescribed.