Kenyan Premier League leaders Kakamega Homeboyz will be eyeing Nzoia Sugar's scalp as they intensify their hunt for a maiden top-flight title at Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday. Homeboyz, who have 33 points from 16 matches, are keen to ease off the pressure from second-placed KCB, who are four points adrift. Homeboyz skipper Geoffrey Oputi says they have their eyes firmly trained on the title. “We are determined to emulate the 2019/2020 season where we emerged second behind Gor Mahia and I believe we have enough depth in the squad to deliver the silverware," said Oputi. Oputi hopes to secure a starting role after sitting out their last match against City Stars due to an injury he sustained in an earlier match against KCB. Oputi said the medics assured him he would be up and running after two to three days following a successful minor procedure performed on his lip. “The doctors said I would need about two to three days to recover fully from the injury and, hopefully, I'll be fit enough to feature against Nzoia,” said Oputi. Meanwhile, newly-appointed Gor Mahia head coach, German Andreas Spier, faces a baptism of fire against a rejuvenated Posta Rangers when the two sides renew their rivalry in a reverse fixture at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. The mailmen made light work of K'Ogalo in their first encounter of the season at Thika Stadium a week ago, where they registered an emphatic 3-0 win. Gor sit at an unfamiliar fifth position with 27 points and further defeats could only serve to compromise their hunt for a 20th title. A heavily revamped Kenya Police side will test the mettle of their new acquisitions against Sofapaka at Wundanyi Stadium on Sunday. The law enforcers went on a shopping spree during the ongoing mid-season transfer window, where they roped in some household names in Kenyan football including former Simba SC midfielder Francis Kahata and former Gor Mahia skipper Harun Shakava. Whereas Police are 10th on the log with 21 points, Sofapaka are hot on their heels just a point adrift. KCB will be flexing muscles with bottom-placed debutants Vihiga Bullets at the Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday. 13-time Kenyan champions AFC Leopards host Bidco United at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi on Saturday on a day that Kariobangi Sharks welcome Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. High-flying Talanta will seek to extend their impressive run against a struggling Mathare United side at Kasarani Annex on Saturday. Wazito travel all the way to ASK Grounds in Nakuru to lock horns with hosts Ulinzi Stars, who have been boosted by the return of coach Benjamin Nyangweso to the bench after a six-month absence. Champions Tusker play away to Bandari  in a reverse fixture at Mbaraki Sports Club, Mombasa.