President Uhuru Kenyatta has officially endorsed the ODM leader Raila Odinga for the presidency. While addressing delegates of the Mt Kenya region, Uhuru urged his community to back Raila's bid saying he has the best interests for the country. The President in an apparent reference to Deputy President William Ruto said he will have no problem supporting him in future if he reforms. "I'm asking you to support Raila Odinga as he means well for the Country. When "my young man reforms", we will consider him," Uhuru said. This is the first time President Uhuru was publicly telling his community that the ODM leader was his preferred successor. The President has been hinting at backing the ODM leader without mentioning it directly. At the Sagana III meeting, Uhuru was bold in saying that Raila was the best fit not only for the Mt Kenya region but Kenya ta large. The President said he had multiplied the country's economy ever since he took over from the retired President Mwai Kibaki. He stated that the ODM leader understands where the country is heading, and will therefore be at peace to hand to him the leadership mantle. "Kibaki left mean economy worth Sh5 trillion, today, the person I will hand government to...and its is that person (referring to shouts of Baba) Yes! Yes! "The one I will handle the government, and you have mentioned him, I will leave him an economy of Sh13 trillion," Uhuru stated. He also revealed that his DP was a party to the Handshake deal and that he kept him abreast with every step. Uhuru also dismissed notions that the Handshake resulted in the kicking out of his key allies from the government. "I kept Ruto briefed on the pending handshake prior. Even as I was going to Harambee House to meet Raila, the DP was the last man I spoke to and he was in agreement." "I told him and I'm not a hypocrite. I never dismissed anyone from work after the handshake. He didn't join the government but peace was restored. Where did I go wrong?" The Sagana III meeting now sets the stage for Uhuru to hit the ground to campaign for Raila's bid.