Despite the national women's volleyball team booster, Jane Wacu taking a break after the Tokyo Olympic Games, coach Paul Bitok is still keen to include her in the World Championships squad. The seasoned setter has served Malkia Strikers for more than 10 years and Bitok believes she will be key in guiding the youngsters in the team. She missed the African Cup of Nations tournament in Rwanda, in September because of an injury, according to Bitok. The Seychelles-based player could be back in the fold for the September 23 to October 15th showpiece that will be co-hosted by the Netherlands and Poland. Her addition will be a big boost to the team that is currently in transition as Bitok is keen to make history in the quadrennial event which will be his last assignment. Bitok is keen to move into volleyball management. "We still need Wacu and I believe there's room for her. She was injured when we played in Rwanda but her experience will be crucial if we intend to leave a mark in the competition," Bitok, who spent a decade coaching Rwanda, said. Bitok also wants thorough preparations for the 24-team competition with the draw scheduled to be conducted on February 28th. He thinks  Kenya can sail to the next round if they can avoid powerhouses in the group phase. Bitok has his fingers crossed that Kenya will not be pooled alongside defending champions Serbia, Olympic Games champions the USA and second-ranked Brazil. Others are China, Korea, and the Dominican Republic. Malkia Strikers lost to South Korea, Serbia, and the Dominican Republic in Tokyo. "Players need international friendly matches. If we can have high-performance training in Brazil as we had arranged before the Olympics, it will lift the competition morale for the players. Europe is also a possibility." "The priority is to first progress from the group stage. However, in order to do that, we must avoid the giants. We are aiming for the best results ever and I have confidence in the current players." Bitok is also keen to blood in more youngsters with eyes on the 2024 Paris Olympics. "Players like Veronica Adhimbo and Emmaculate Nekesa among others will fight for their chance. I want to promote more young players and this exposure will instill confidence and self-belief in them."    