Former councillors in Kisii have endorsed immediate former Transport and Infrastructure CAS Chris Obure for governor. The more than 30 former civic leaders from Bobasi, Bomachoge Chache, Bomachoge Borabu and South Mugirango said Obure has the requisite experience to run the affairs of the county. They spoke after meeting with Obure at Maya Holiday Camp. “As former councillors, we are here today to declare our unequivocal support for Obure to be our governor. After weighing all the candidates, we have settled on Obure because of his experience in the private sector, as a minister and senator,” Julius Ongaki said. Simeon Magare, the chairman of former councillors in South Mugirango, said Obure is a seasoned politician and asked Kisii residents to vote for him. “Some of the aspirants don’t even have a track record and should be rejected. The notion that Obure is old and should not be elected is wrong. We need his experience as a county because he has delivered in the previous positions he has held,” he said. “There is also an unwritten agreement that the governor's seat should rotate between the former Kisii and Gucha districts. Since Governor James Ongwae has served for 10 years, it’s now the turn of the former Gucha district to serve.” Obure, who has named financial expert William Mbaka as his running mate, will be making a second stab at the governor's seat after losing in the 2017 polls to Ongwae. The elders reiterated their support for ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid. “We have also passed a resolution to support former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s presidential bid,” Sebastian Ondara said. Other governor aspirants in the county include Senator Sam Ongeri, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati, Nyaribari Chache Ezekiel Machogu, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, Charles Chweya Matoke, and former South Mugirango MPs Omingo Magara and Manson Oyongo. Last week, Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong’era pulled out of the race to defend her seat, leaving Racheal Otundo as the only woman aspirant. Edited by A.N