Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi has urged residents of Mount Kenya to unite and speak in one voice ahead of the general elections. He said the region might find itself losing the best positions in the next government, regardless of having the highest number of voters in the country. He further urged residents and politicians to align themselves to one party. Muturi added that in a democratic country, the strength of a region is determined by the number of legislators it takes to parliament, and the slots it gets in the executive. "When we look at the political parties around their leaders are vying for governor and legislative seats. Can a person who is an MP or a governor speak on behalf of Mt Kenya?" he asked. "Let us have a strong party from Mt Kenya. Where all other politicians can approach us from," he said. Muturi decried that, at a time when President Uhuru Kenyatta's term is coming to an end, the people of the region are confused on which political route to follow. "All presidential candidates are coming to Mt Kenya to woe us, why? because we have votes" he said. The speaker asked residents not to be inflicted by fear that a strong leader from Mt Kenya cannot succeed Kenyatta. "If he campaigns well with a good manifesto, people will accepts him and he can  win," Muturi said. "Our constitution is very clear, a candidate who garners most votes wins. With our rich vote basket we can rally we can support one of our own," he added. He spoke on Friday at White House in Uplands, Lari constituency, when he was popularising the Democratic Party. He revealed that DP  will hold it's National Delegates Conference on 21st February, 2022, when he hopes to be endorsed as its presidential candidate. He said among those who will lead the party's NDC is party leader Joseph Munyau, who will hand over to him the leadership of the party. The speaker exuded confidence that the party will be the main vehicle people from the Mt Kenya will use in the August polls. Lari Kirenga MCA aspirants Josphat Kinyanjui, Kuria Munyori and former MCA Joseph Githaiga attended.