Comedian Kartelo has been missing in action for quite a while now. He rarely posts on his social media platforms. His last post was in January. Speaking to Mungai Eve on her YouTube channel, Kartelo said social media denied him happiness. The comedian said he gave his fans a lot of his time and forgot about the people who matter most in his life. "I was dedicating so much of my time to people's happiness but now I decided to focus on my life, my personal project and family," he said. Kartelo said he needed time to also focus on his spiritual life. "Spirituality pia, I am growing. I have been a church person. I am saved and I will be baptised this year. It's a step I want to take in my life. Celebrity life moves very fast and if you are not careful, you end up giving it your all. I could not even sleep, I was always moving and doing things." He said fame made him forget to visit his parent. "Sending money to my mom without visiting her was not enough, I needed time to spend with her," Kartelo said. "I can send money to my lover but my mum, I need to see her regularly. Life had made me a product of my fans. "I was drained and there was no time for myself. Anything I did was on Kartelo and not Nick. The brand was okay but my relationship with the people who matter was not good." The artist said he has learnt to be patient. "The period I took a break, I told myself I had given Kartelo enough time and now I am patient and I know how to balance," he said. "No rush in all things. Content in my YouTube [show] is enough for now. People should keep on watching. I want value in return for all the content I release." Kartelo is working on setting up a studio in Kayole. He said he believes his brand is unique. "I want to help others to bridge the barrier that stops artists from exploring their talents," he said. "There can only be one Kartelo, I am not afraid of the upcoming. Ukinijua ushanijua. Everyone has their space in this industry. "I believe there are true fans who value my work and even if I am not active, they still value me. I have always wanted to start a music studio that's why I have started Kimonyoski Records."