Kenya will capitalise on the success of the inaugural beach handball league season ahead of the Africa Junior and Senior Championship in Togo next month. The technical director in charge of beach handball, Titus Kesekwa, described the season as fiercely competitive as teams fought tooth and nail to qualify for the play-offs. "Gradually as the season progressed, you could see that competition among the teams was growing. For example, in the men's league, the second and third-placed teams tied on points whereas the leaders edged ahead by only two points. This was the same case in the women's league," Kesekwa said. He added: "In 2022, we are organising the African junior and senior championship in Togoin March. We are awaiting official communication from the African Handball Federation." Kesekwa further believes the country has a lot to look forward to when the International Handball Federation Beach Handball World Championships will be held on June 21-26 in Crete, Greece. "It is our dream to compete in the world championship. That the dates for the championship have been confirmed by IHF is not only a motivation to us but also for entire East Africa," Kesekwa, also a member of CAHB Working Group, said. Locally, focus shifts to the playoffs on March 13 where the top four teams in both categories will battle for top honours. The men's league leaders Pwani University will face third-placed Whitehouse Voi as second-placed Saints Handball Club tackle fourth-place Kizingo Tigers in the semis. In the women's division, leaders Coast Queens will lock horns with Mtwapa Youths whereas second and fourth-placed Changamwe All-Stars and Glorious battle in the semis. Kesekwa expressed optimism over the growth of the sport in the country, pointing to the increasing number of fans as evidence of better times ahead. "Our league attracted people from all over the coast and the country at large. Many more are starting to embrace the sport and that's encouraging. Like on Saturday, the venue was packed to capacity as many people came to watch the games, including those who hawk their wares along the beach," he said. He added: "There's more where that came from. It's exciting to see the level of interest people are developing in beach handball and others coming into it. It would be great to see more countries in Africa taking part in the sport."