Granted, the growth of Internet technology has provided many car owners with increased avenues or platforms to sell to an interested buyer. However, selling a vehicle is still a complex process that requires adequate preparations, considering the many legal requirements you will have to fulfill. First, you need to set the right price to avoid ripping yourself off by underselling or remaining stuck with a car that no one wants for being too pricey. Your personal mechanic can always help you in this regard by assessing your car and providing a correct valuation. The mechanic will not only identify faulty parts that will drive down the price of the car but also notify you of any mechanical issues that may require repairs before selling the car. It is important to note that cars are mostly depreciating assets, which are likely to sell at a lower rate than the buying price. Therefore, you might have to temper your expectations, as far as the amount you will fetch from the sale is concerned. Either way, it is important for your car to be in tip-top condition and as aesthetically pleasing as possible to potential buyers. This means undertaking all the repairs required and giving it a proper bath for when people come to survey it. Equally crucial to making a sale is proper documentation for the vehicle. Honesty is the holy grail of the auto selling business, and your buyers should always perceive you as a trustworthy person. This entails disclosing the status of the various documents required to own a car, including road licence, insurance cover, PSV licence (in case of a matatu) and logbook. Of course, this industry is shark-infested water, where the gullible are easy prey for fraudsters out to eat where they have never toiled. As a result, you should be hawk-eyed to take measures to secure your safety, especially with the prevalence of carjackings, grand theft auto and kidnappings. You should always meet potential buyers at public places and only reveal such sensitive documentation after establishing the authenticity of their interest in your car. The weekend auto bazaars across Nairobi are one such example of secure places where you can take your car for a public display and attract potential buyers. These bazaars, managed by the Kenya Auto Bazaar Association (KABA), are public markets where car owners display their vehicles for sale. You simply need to pay a gate charge — for example, opposite Jamhuri showground — and then you will be allowed to access the ground every Sunday, where you will meet hundreds of buyers looking for a car to buy. Remember, patience is a virtue you will need in plenty to survive the process. You may not be able to sell your car immediately but if you're meticulous enough, you will avoid the hiccups so many people usually encounter.