Every woman needs to understand her body type to dress appropriately, according to her shape. There are five body types: hourglass shape, pear body, slender/slim body, busty shape and apple shape. This article will describe the different body types and how to dress each of them. HOURGLASS SHAPE Women with this body type have hips, busts almost the same size and a well-defined waist. The waist can be narrower than both the hips and breast line with the shoulders slightly rounded. To dress this body shape, one needs to invest in more fitting and body-hugging outfits. Avoid baggy tops and dresses that do not define the waist. If you have to go for colourful outfits, ensure the vertical stripes are not too wide or too bold. SLENDER SHAPE This slim body type is characterised by a ‘fire’ waist, flat tummy and a bit narrower shoulders. The way a person with normal body type dresses is similar to how slender people also dress. The normal body type has a well-balanced proportional waist, narrow hips and sporty legs. For the upper part of the body, they should choose V-neck T-shirts or tops, bodysuits and swing tanks. They should also stick to no-waist dresses to cover the part around the tummy. PEAR BODY The pear body shape is the opposite of the apple type. Here, there is a lot of weight concentration around the stomach to the hip line. The body has a high waist, wider hips, narrow breast line and shoulders. For this body, wear brighter colours on the upper body and dark colours on the bottom part. ‘Crazy’ tops with shuffles and lots of statements will work well for the upper part. Even when choosing dresses, they should have off-shoulder or the most detail on the upper part and sleeves. BUSTY BODY A busty shape has most of its weight concentrated on the upper part of the body, opposite of the pear body. Busty women may have a wider back, a defined waistline and a narrower lower part of the body. To dress this shape, women need to find tops that flatter the breast line and tank tops with wider straps. For dresses, they should embrace more skater dresses and skirts.