Iteso community members living in Trans Nzoia have declared their support for former Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya’s governor bid. Led by Trans Nzoia County Iteso Residents Association patron Alfred Oskuku, the community said they took into consideration the capabilities of all the candidates and settled on Natembeya. They said he has the capacity and ability to take the county to greater heights of prosperity. Oskuku said there are more than 70,000 members of the community who are eligible voters. “We have decided that as members of the Iteso community, we will vote for Natembeya because of the vision he has for the county.” Association chairman Imo Okumu and spokesperson Etyang Etyang said the community will go to all the 25 wards in Trans Nzoia to campaign for Natembeya. Etyang claimed community members have been frustrated and discriminated against in matters of employment and tenders because they supported a rival governor candidate in past elections. "We will support you to the last man and woman," he promised Natembeya during the endorsement in Amagoro, Kiminini constituency. The community also voiced support for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga, Kiminini DAP-K MP candidate Maurice Kakai and DAP-K Senate candidate Joshua Werunga. Natembeya pledged to support the Iteso community if he wins the election. "I hereby give you my commitment to support you realise your goals as any other community in this county. I’m one man who doesn’t forget others who stand by me," he said. The former administrator has so far entered into a political pact with the Sabaot, Kikuyu, Kisii, Marakwet, Pokot, Iteso, the Luhya, and the Cherang’any Sengwer communities to form an all-inclusive government. He promised progressive and transparent service delivery to all communities residing in the county. Trans Nzoia has a population of 990,341 and covers an area of 2,495.5 square km. Kitale town is the capital of Trans Nzoia county, which has 339,622 registered voters and 434 polling stations. It also has five constituencies of Endebes (43,189), Kwanza (65,643), Saboti (76,802), Kiminini (77,482), Cherangany (76,506) and Kwanza (65,643). Edited by A.N 