The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been directed to file its response in a case in which a man has denied being a colleague of a prison staffer accused of fraudulently pocketing Sh257 million. Stephen Ogeto said the anti-graft agency intentionally misled the court into granting an order prohibiting any dealings in respect to his property in Nyaribari Chache on the false premise that he is an official working at State Department of Corrections. He wants that order set aside. Justice Esther Maina in April this year froze properties of one Eric Mutai accused of embezzling Sh257 million. Mutai, a prison official and sole proprietor of seven companies, is alleged to have acquired the funds through a fictitious supply of food and ration to the department. He reportedly received Sh257,220,500, which he spent on prime land in Nairobi, Kericho and Kisii counties, through proxies, relatives and fellow employees. Mutai utilised some Sh15 million to purchase  property in Nyaribari chache. The money was paid to the seller's account Mathew Akama and registered in the name of Stephen Ogeto. The EACC had indicated that Ogeto is Mutai's colleague at the department. But Ogeto, in his application before the court, said he is not and has never been an official working at the department. He has faulted the commission for failing to include him in the proceedings before court despite knowing he is the registered owner and proprietor of the land in Nyaribari chache. Oget said the agency intentionally failed to include him in the proceedings with the aim of securing the orders in bad faith. It is on that basis that he wants the court to set aside the order touching on his property, and that he be allowed to join the proceedings so that he may defend his proprietary rights. When the matter was filed in May, the court directed the same be served on the commission. EACC was to file a response but they are yet too. The matter will be heard in court on Wednesday. Ogeto said he is the owner of the property in Nyaribari Chache having acquired it in 2017 from the previous owner Dr Mathews Kiriago Akama. He said the purchase price in respect to acquisition of the land was paid by Mutai and there was nothing unlawful in that. Ogeto has demonstrated material evidence on how he purchased the property. He said on July 3, 2017, he entered into an agreement for sale with Hygienic Ventures where he agreed to sell to Mutai his motor vehicle for SH10 million. Mutai is the sole director of Hygienic. On July 4, 2017, he entered into another agreement with Homex logistics and Unique supplies. Ogeto agreed to sell another vehicle for Sh15 million to Mutai and a salon known as Hygienic and barber shop situated at Jubilee Insurance building in Nairobi for Sh15 million. The prison official is the sole director of the two companies. He had another agreement with official on July 12, 2017. He sold him another vehicle for Sh3 million. Mutai was to effect payment to Ogeto on the said agreements. Ogeto said the order on his property was obtained through deliberate, false and misleading claims, and it is only lawful if the order be set aside. The application will be heard on August 19.  (edited by Amol Awuor)