More than 2,000 children in 20 primary schools in Narok county are playing to learn and learning to play. It's part of an Early Childhood Development Education initiative undertaken by World Vision Kenya in collaboration with Kenya National Library Services. The project, sponsored by Lego Foundation and Aga Khan Foundation, was launched at Olonganaiyo Primary School in Narok South subcounty. The event was attended by Narok county commissioner Isaac Masinde and education officials led by Narok Education executive, Youth Affairs CEC Cecilia Wuapari  and other leaders. Lego Foundation is celebrating its 90-year anniversary themed 'Build a World of Play' aimed at creating awareness of the importance of play among children and their parents or caregivers. The initiative will strengthen the capacity of lower primary teachers to integrate play-based teaching and learning approaches. World Vision cluster manager in charge of Narok and Bomet counties Mirasine Meiguran said the project will be implemented over 18 months. She said it is expected to improve learning outcome. “The aim of this programme is to promote child well-being through sustained transformational development and facilitating the empowerment of children, especially the vulnerable children,” Meiguran said. Masinde said play is a critical element in early education. “The programme will go a long way in creating a bright future for the children. I call upon the schools and parents to allow children to play as they learn to improve their education and psychological growth,” Masinde said. He also said the government is taking stock of all schools in drought-stricken areas to providing a free feeding programme to keep children in school. Wuapari of Youth Affairs asked the children to take advantage of the mobile library and play games to benefit themselves and ensure they excel in academics. The programme is also being implemented in Kakamega and Nairobi counties and targets about 6, 000 learners and 5,000 caregivers in all the select counties. (Edited  by V. Graham)