The deputy presidential debate will be held on Tuesday, July 19 at the Catholic University for East Africa in Karen, Nairobi. The Presidential Debates Secretariat says the debate will be two tier based on the popularity of the running mates. The first tier debate will feature running mates whose popularity ratings based on three recent opinion polls stand below 5 per cent. The second tire will feature presidential running mates who polled above 5 per cent in the same surveys. "Once again, we wish to reiterate our commitment to delivering a debate founded on the principles of fairness, integrity, independence and accountability as enshrined in the  Presidential Debates Guidelines," the secretariat said in a statement Wednesday. The two debates will be moderated by journalists from KBC, TV47, NTV, KTN and Citizen TV. Linda Alela of TV47 and John Jacob Kioria of KBC will moderate the first tier debate while KTN's Sophia Wanuna will moderate the second debate together with NTV's James Smart. The first tier debate will be held from 6:00 pm to 7.30 pm while the second tire debate will run from 8 pm to 10 pm. Citizen TV's Trevor Ombija will moderate the pre-debate analysis from 5 pm. "The moderators have been selected based on rigorous criteria that, among other things, endear the principles of impartiality, fairness and objectivity, a strong understanding of Kenyan political landscape and and the major issues of this election," added the secretariat. Under the presidential debates rules, the questions will be chosen by the moderators and shall not share the same with the candidates. The moderators will also not meet with the campaign teams or the candidates prior to the debate. The latest polls indicate that Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga is the most preferred choice by Kenyans to take over the country's leadership after the August 9 polls. Raila settled on former Justice Minister Martha Karua as his running mate. A survey released on Wednesday by Infotrak said the Azimio team was leading the race with 43 per cent popularity rating against their UDA and Kenya Kwanza rival William Ruto who garnered 37 per cent of the vote. Ruto settled on Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua as his running mate. Others in the race are Roots Party leader George Wajackoyah and running mate Justina Wangui Wamae and David Waihiga of Agano Party and running mate Ruth Mutua. The last two presidential candidates have all scored less than 5 per cent in the latest opinion polls.