The Jubilee administration has issued over six million title deeds during President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 10-year reign, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said. Matiang’i said the number of title deeds issued by the President since he took over leadership in 2013 had surpassed deeds issued by the previous three regimes. He said all the three administrations together issued 5. 6 million title deeds to Kenyans from 1963 to 2013. The CS spoke during the issuance of title deeds to Machakos residents at Kathiani Boys High School in Kathiani, on Thursday. He issued 43,110 title deeds. He was accompanied by Interior Ministry secretary Wilson Njenga, Eastern regional commissioner Evans Achoki, Machakos county commissioner Rhoda Onyancha and Pharmacy and Poisons Board CEO Daniel Yumbya. He said the President was committed to ensuring he fulfils his promise of ensuring Kenyans were issued with the document before he retires. Matiang’i said the President had since last week dispatched several government officials to issue title deeds across the country. “Last week and this week we are all over issuing title deeds,” he said. He warned relevant administrators against charging residents for the documents since they were free of charge. “By August 9, there will be no pending title deeds in Machakos. I urge all administrators including chiefs to stop all other duties as a government and ensure the documents were issued to owners,” he said. He, however, told residents to safely keep the documents once they receive them. The CS cautioned Kenyans against selling their parcels of land once they were issued with title deeds. “Don’t sell land, you can secure bank loans using the documents and invest as a family,” he said. He said politicians should seek votes peacefully without inciting their supporters to violence. Matiang’i said they were ready to protect Kenyans and their property before, during and after the August polls. “No single citizen will be threatened. Kenyans have the Constitutional right to vote for leaders they want. Our role is uniting Kenyans,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris