Humanity Node Protocol, Web3Africa and Adanian Labs have formed a partnership to empower 10,000 startups across Africa. They target to enable young Africans and entrepreneurs to build innovative technologies and businesses around blockchain technologies. Known as the African Startup League, the initiative will empower 10,000 African owned enterprises to compete for a grand prize of $1 million (Sh 117.9 million), where each business will build technologies on blockchain. "Blockchain and Africa are inevitable. There is no bigger opportunity on the planet today to do good for humanity while making incredible returns", said Marcus Dukes, Founder of the Humanity Node Protocol. The Humanity Node Protocol and Web3Africa project is issuing 300,000 Humanity NFTs on or before August 8th, 2022 to 300,000 Africans who have been registered and had their identities verified. These Humanity NFTs represent ownership in the governance nodes of HNP and the communication, financial, distribution and transactional infrastructure (rails) of the coming multi-trillion dollar D(ecentralized) GDP of Africa. HNP based in Nairobi, Kenya has partnered with Adanian Labs (also based in Nairobi) to create the business model and operating protocols for the Humanity NFTs and expect the Humanity NFTs will generate over $1,000 a month ($12,000 a year) income for the chosen recipients awarded the Humanity NFTs. Each awardee is required to commit 100 hours of service to Humanity Node Protocol which will create 30,000,000 hours committed to further building out the infrastructure needed to usher in the African era of hyper-economic growth. "The opportunity for young African's to take part of this initiative during a time when the world is witnessing a change in how decentralized finance and blockchain technologies are impacting societies globally. Africa is at the forefront of implementing new blockchain technologies", said John Kamara Founder of Adanian Labs. Additionally, the combined Humanity, Web3Africa and Adanian Labs Ecosystem is launching the African Startup League to empower 10,000 African startups that join the ecosystem, providing them the required tools, access to talent, new markets and resources to scale their businesses and monetize their ideas. Serving the continent's rich and deep talent pool will support the realisation of a new prosperous Africa continental economy powered by possibilities created by blockchain. "A new startup ecosystem is forming in Africa to address the continent's most pressing issues using crypto and blockchain technology. In the midst of the next digital revolution of the global economy, Africa has yet to fully realize the promise of blockchain technology, this is where Web3Africa (www.web3Africa.news), will seek to change the perception and understanding among millions across the continent", said Aly Ramji, Managing Editor and Co-Founder of Web3Africa.news. The African Startup League has partnered with The Exchange Africa to highlight the various startups that will be incubated and housed under the ASL. It is the goal of the Africa Startup League and The Exchange Africa to showcase how the crypto / blockchain industry is growing across the continent and how startups are adopting these technologies for deployment in a continent that was once considered forgotten.