Deputy President William Ruto has pledged to increase salaries for police officers if he wins the August 9 general election. Speaking at Gachororo in Juja on Sunday, the DP said the Kenya Kwanza administration will overhaul the Kenya Police Service within 100 days and restore dignity to the officers. "Kama Kenya Kwanza tumesema ya kwamba hawa makarao, hawa polisi wetu, tutapanga a professional police force, polisi wetu wawe na kazi yenye heshima," Ruto said. (As Kenya Kwanza, we will professionalise the police service so that our officers gain respect) "Ndani ya siku mia moja, tunabadilisha terms of service na mishahara ya polisi wa taifa letu la Kenya ili watusaidie kuweka usalama, tuzalishe uchumi," Ruto stated. (Within 100 days, we will improve their terms of service and salaries so that we help our officers to maintain security as we improve the economy) A survey released in July 2021 suggested that more than half of Kenyan police officers love policing but are not satisfied with their jobs. The survey put overall job satisfaction performance index for general duty police officers (GDPO) at 48 per cent while 73 per cent of the officers surveyed said they do not get enough time with family and friends. "The lowest rated area was in salary, allowance and benefits with a score of 13 per cent, while the highest rating was in satisfaction with their supervisor with a score of 81 per cent," the report read in part. Ruto's running mate Rigathi Gachagua had previously said that officers with degrees would be remunerated according to their academic qualifications. He claimed that Kenya Kwanza has plans to better officers, chiefs, and assistant county commissioners' terms of service and restore dignity in the civil service. Ruto said upon professionalising the police service, police officers will no longer be used to do politics beyond their primary mandate of maintaining peace and order. "Kama mwanasiasa hajiwezi, hiyo ni shauri yake, either apange mkutano yake lakini hatuwezi kutumia polisi kuharibu mikutano ya wapinzani wetu," he said. This translates to, "If a politician is unpopular, that's upon him. He should organise his rallies but we won't use our police to disrupt opponents' meetings." The Kenya Kwanza leader further pledged that his administration would set aside Sh200 billion to boost industrialisation, create job opportunites and help battle Kenya's worrying unemployment. Ruto bashed his opponents claiming they had nothing to show except giving handouts. "Tatizo ya ajira ya vijana sio mchezo. Mpango ya Kenya Kwanza itakuwa kwa textile, agro processing, housing na manufacturing. Tutaweka bilion 200 kwa hiyo mpango. Hawa wengine mpango yao ni ya handouts," Ruto said. Earlier, the DP attended a church service at Joy Christ in Juja Kiambu county. He was accompanied by Rigathi and Kenya Kwanza allies including  Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Speaker JB Muturi.