Since April 13, 2022, when Siaya governor candidate James Orengo received a direct ticket to fly the ODM flag, he has been to nearly every corner of the county to boost his bid. In the spirit of leaving no stone unturned, Orengo has managed to galvanise support from former leaders and all the incumbent six MPs in Siaya. They include former Gem MP Joe Donde, Elisha Odhiambo (Gem ), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga), David Ochieng (Ugenya), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda) and Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja). Atandi, Ochanda and Odhiambo are now vigorously campaigning for Orengo after they were confirmed as ODM nominees. Unlike Otiende and Wandayi and Daniel Odhiambo (Ugenya ODM nominee), who received direct tickets. Ochanda, Atandi and Odhiambo were subjected to the rigorous universal suffrage process. Orengo also enjoys support from a host of incumbent MCAs. Political commentator Patrick Ochieng notes that Orengo can now breathe with a sigh of relief following the support of Atandi, Odhiambo and Ochanda. “Orengo would have found it difficult to campaign in Gem, Bondo and Alego Usonga if the trio were to be short-changed by ODM,” Ochieng said. On July 2, Orengo was endorsed by ODM chief Raila Odinga as the best fit for the Siaya governor seat. Outgoing Governor Cornel Rasanga is also supporting Orengo. Orengo has managed to broker a truce and gather nearly all aspirants who were disgruntled by the controversial ODM nominations. Nicholas Kut, who fought for the ODM ticket against Atandi is now comfortably back into the fold, backing Orengo. Jalang’o Midiwo, who contested for the Gem ticket against Odhiambo has also promised to support Orengo, so is the Ugenya MP. Orengo’s competitor Nicholas Gumbo of the UDM has since accused Ochieng of betraying him. In the beginning, Ochieng announced that Gumbo was to vie for governorship on the MDG ticket. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Collins Oyuu, who also hails from the area is also supporting Orengo's bid. Oyuu urged teachers to rally behind the Senator, the Knut boss has also held a discourse with special interest groups to drum up support for Orengo. His team also managed to convince William Oduol to be Orengo's running mate. Oduol was a popular gubernatorial candidate in 2013. He hails from Alego Usonga subcounty, which boasts of more than 120,000 votes. Analysts say that the number of votes Orengo or Gumbo get in Alego Usonga shall determine the winner. Gumbo comes from Rarieda, where he was an MP for 10 years and enjoys fanatical support in Bondo. He is also welcome in most parts of Gem following his 2017 partnership with former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo. Lately, Gumbo is making frequent visits to villages and churches in Alego Usonga with hopes of scooping many votes in the area. While Orengo is using the village meetings to enumerate his achievements in his many years of leadership. Orengo tells his audience that he oversaw the construction of the lands offices in Siaya, Bondo and Ugunja towns and he participated in the making of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, which brought devolution. Orengo promises to improve the availability of medicine in health facilities to curb the ongoing shortage. (Edited by Tabnacha O)