Kenya's Beatrice Chebet is keen to build up on her world 5,000 metres silver medal which she won in Oregon, USA over the weekend. Chebet said she now has self-belief after her feat in Oregon, thanks to tips from world 10,000m silver medallist Hellen Obiri. She promised Kenyans a totally different script as far as her track performance is concerned. "I have now tested the grounds at the international level and I know what it takes to be a champion," she said. She said she is already looking forward to this week's Commonwealth Games, 2023 World Athletics Championships in Budapest and the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris, France Chebet, who won the 2019 world cross country junior title in Gdynia, said she did not expect to finish on the podium and her silver has inspired her a lot. " I want to scale up my training ahead of the 2024 Paris Olympic Games and the World Championships. “I also want to thank Kenyan fans who supported me here in Oregon and come next year, I promise to win the gold medal at both World Championships and Olympic Games. I have already proven I can do better with good preparations through proper training,” said Chebet. Competing for the first time in senior ranks after graduating from juniors, Chebet won silver in 5,000m in her season best of 14:46.75 behind Ethiopian Gudaf Tsegay, who returned 14:46.29. “Winning silver was not easy and I want to thank God for it. I did not expect any medal but as I always say, a medal belongs to anybody who is on track at that time. With this in mind, I knew I could prevail over the Ethiopians even though they were strong," she noted. She described her feat as her biggest moment on the big stage in her life, insisting that it wasn't easy. She dedicated her silver medal to Obiri, saying she has been an inspiration and has guided her well. “I really celebrate Obiri who has been a pillar in my career. She has been a good mentor, guide and generally a good person in my career. I know she’s listening to me but I thank her for everything." "I have run with her in several races like Diamond Leagues and she has been selfless and treated me as a true friend. "Even before the race, Obiri had called me to wish me well in the race. When she announced she was switching to road running, she gave me her blessings to continue her legacy on track. I want to make her proud and I promise to fit in her shoes,” she added. Chebet’s next race is the Commonwealth Games which starts at the end of this week in Birmingham and will be flying the Kenyan flag with compatriot Selah Jepleting.