Kisii ODM Gubernatorial candidate Simba Arati suffered a blow Friday after hundreds of his supporters defected to Kenya National Congress. More than 300  of his key supporters defected. The head of his security team was among those who walked out on the ODM candidate. Former Jubilee Party Senatorial candidate Isaac Onchangwa led the defectors to KNC. He said Kisii was a peaceful county to be led by Arati. "It is decision time and going forward our people have read the mood, they want to continue enjoying their peace,” said Onchangwa. Lukas Ntabo , another defector said the massive defections Friday were informed by the lack of a clear agenda by the ODM candidate. He also accused Arati of instigating many of the recent incidents of violence across the County. Arati has since accused his foes of supplanting violet elements in the protests to cause chaos. On Friday Ntabo termed Oyongo a peace-loving person with a likeable personality who can manage Kisii if voted as governor. "We have weighed both and our judgment is right that Oyongo is the best bet for this seat," said Ntabo. KNC Party Governorship candidate Manson Oyongo received the defectors. He promised to improve markets to enable women to do business. He said the County under his watch will subsidize fertilizer to reduce the cost of farming in the region. On sugarcane, he is ready to scout for internal and external markets for the crop. He would also set up factories to do value addition to the crop among other farm produce. He will further increase bursaries for learners adding that he will expand infrastructure for ECDE classes when he becomes governor. He said he will source funds from donors to help spur development in the region. The KNC candidate said in the coming few days he will create an intensive wave and galvanize voters to vote him into office "Leave opinion polls, they are utter propaganda, I will win," he told the supporters. He also asked Arati to explain the sources of wealth saying he himself has been doing business for the last 30 years but has not grown the wealth he has acquired for the last few years. He claimed that the Dagoreti North MP was being funded by shadowy figures and would act as a broker for them if elected. "People want him to explain to them who is funding him, otherwise he is a man on a mission to auction our County,” stated Oyongo.