IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati on Friday said the extra booklet for form 34A will not be used. Speaking during a media brief in Bomas of Kenya, Chebukati said Lykos, the printing firm printed two booklets as they are carbonated. The question of the extra forms arose during a lengthy discussion with the Azimio team representatives. "We shall only use one booklet. The first booklet, for purpose of transmission of results for presidential elections," he said. Chebukati added that the second document will be sealed in a tamper-proof envelope upon arrival at the polling stations. "It will be kept in the ballot box and sealed together with the materials at the end of polling. So the second booklet will not be used," he added. The IEBC Chair further said the original copy of the first booklet will be brought to the tallying centre for verification of results. Chebukati said four copies of the 34A will be given to the agents of presidential candidates, one copy will be put and sealed in the ballot box together with the materials and the other copy will be posted on the door. "We have agreed that the presiding officer will make arrangements to make a copy of the original for purpose of pasting on the door of the polling station before he leaves the station." The PRO said that Forms 34B are managed at the constituency by the Returning Officer, in charge of the various constituencies. He assured that the form is being printed after Raila Odinga's team on Wednesday claimed that it was not being printed. "We want to state that 34B is being printed and will be delivered to the country together with the other materials remaining and then send directly to the constituency RO," he said. Chebukati clarifies that 34B was not meant to be packaged with 34A, saying it was meant to be used by the RO. He said the Commission will work on and release a Gazette notice, regarding the changes. Chebukati reiterated that as a Commission, they are working to ensure that Kenyans get a free, fair and credible election. He lauded candidates across the country for conducting themselves in a civil manner and acknowledged the few unsettling moments.