If you are feeling hemmed in by the city and longing for a calming break in the bush, booking a staycation at one of the finest farms in Kajiado is exactly what you need. At times, after weeks of hard labour and mentally exhausting work, we feel the need to rejuvenate ourselves with a vacation type of break, but the wallet reminds us we cannot afford it. That is why staycations are here to save the day. A staycation is a mini-vacation closer to home. Over the weekend, we visited a modern farm house in Corner Baridi, in Kajiado county. Dream Farm, is located in Ilamasin, 5 km off Magadi road in Kiserian, South of Nairobi. After we did our supplies shopping for the weekend at a local supermarket in Rongai, we drove for an hour to Kiserian from Rongai and then broke off from the main road. We then joined the off-road; an experience that was enjoyed by most of us in our mini van. The rugged imperfect terrain, dusty, bumpy roads of Savannah was full of scenic views of the hill something that you cannot find in the capital. With the van wobbling left, right and centre, the serenity of the area left the team with a breathe of fresh air free from pollution of the city. As we pass by the shrubs within the area, we notice Maasai men, in their traditional regalia guarding livestock in the rocky, savanna marshes. Within this area, the air felt cleaner and crispier and the mixture of sun-rays and fogginess made the views more breathtaking. Owned by a couple - Peter Mwaniki and his wife Jane Wamae, the farm is strategically located in the middle of a valley. The van leads up to the magnificent new private retreat called Dream Farm. Our hosts say the getaway place is home for anyone longing for space, peace, and luxury. The two houses within the farm are christened Mi Amor (a place of love). “It’s the place to come with friends and family to relax and enjoy dramatic landscapes, panoramic views, stylish and expansive accommodation, and a spectacular chicken farm,” Jane said. All the fruits and vegetables are organic, watered and manured. The farm house has running water round the clock as it has a borehole while power supply has solar backup system. “The farm lives up to its name; it is a very friendly and family place. Somewhere you can get your hands dirty, play with the fresh soil from the garden, go fishing, or just relax and obtain a state of Zen,” Jane explained. Staycation primarily lasts between 24 and 48 hours. For it to qualify as a staycation, it requires two things: a home-type setting and minimal physical activities. Staycations have become increasingly popular over the past couple of years due to several factors. They are budget-friendly and they involve staying at home and doing fun things alone or with friends or family. It brings similar experiences as when on vacation far away from home. With the outbreak of a global pandemic and travel restrictions, most people started finding solace in their own homes or AirBnBs. Bringing back the old tradition of togetherness, our team had a great bonding experience. From preparing meals together, to having sit-down meals at the dining area and lighting a bonfire, and enjoying a cup of cold brew or some marshmallows. It is the accommodation that really makes the farmhouse a real gem. There are a variety of accommodation options to choose from. The main house has four spacious en-suite bedrooms and the log cabin next to the chicken house has two bedrooms. Each room is unique and kitted out in the typical laid back modern and African touch. The couple that owns the farm house is very modest about their achievements, and what made them settle down in the middle of a valley. Their story is one of unmatched resilience, dotted with the idea of moving and settling abroad and near eviction by the local community for being "outsiders". You might get lucky to hear this amazing story from the horse's mouth if you take a trip to the couple's farmhouse.