National and regional security chiefs gathered in Nairobi for the final touches of operation and deployment plans ahead of the general elections. During the second last of the planned National Security Assessment Session chaired by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, the eight regional security teams briefed on their preparedness to secure the August poll and the plans for relevant contingencies. Matiang’i exuded confidence that the elections will be adequately secured on account of the elaborate and collaborative early planning by various security agencies. He said intelligence reports indicated the country was generally peaceful during the campaign season save for isolated cases of active criminal gangs in the North Rift and some parts of Nyanza and Central Kenya that were being dealt with. “We are very alert. If we detect any activity that is akin to trying to resuscitate, create or revive any form of gang activity, we will act with very serious resolve. We will be merciless, and we will be ruthless,” the CS said. He warned leaders against unlawful mobilization and incitement of their supporters under the guise of political campaigns. “We urge all political players to conduct themselves lawfully. They should not be tempted by anything to resort to either reviving or trying to create gangs to intimidate opponents or interfere with the electoral process.” The regional security teams have been holding regular engagements with election officials and have drawn up relevant responses, including simulations on effective crowd management. The CS said security agencies have been adequately resourced to support the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) deliver peaceful and credible polls. Polling stations have also been reviewed jointly with the IEBC, and appropriate resources made available based on the accessibility and security needs for the delivery of election materials. “None of our security teams from the regions has reported any problem or any breakdown of communication between them and the Commission. Now, we are moving to the last stage of final preparations of movement of election materials and IEBC officials on August 9.” The security committees, which are chaired by Regional Commissioners, will hold the final review and assessment meeting at the end of the month. The meeting was also attended by the Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Inspector General of Police, Hilary Mutyambai, all Regional Commissioners and all the Regional bosses of the Kenya Police, Administration Police and the National Intelligence Service among others. The security chiefs have also been conducting mock exercises on how the polls will be done as part of efforts to ensure general safety. Mutyambai is set to gazette dozens of personnel from National Youth Service, Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Prisons Service and Kenya Wildlife Service as special officers to enhance the polls operations.