Wayne Rooney has agreed to return to Major League Soccer side DC United as the club’s new head coach. England’s record goal-scorer Rooney, 36, stood down as Derby County manager last month after guiding the Rams through a tortuous period in the club’s history. His first job in management saw him lead the club through administration and relegation to League One. Rooney spent 18 months in Washington at DC United before joining Derby as a player coach in January 2020. He was put in interim charge of the team in November of that year with the club bottom of the Championship after they parted company with Phillip Cocu. Rooney was confirmed in the post on a two-and-half-year contract three months later, a decision that prompted him to confirm his retirement as a player. Manchester United’s record goalscorer was earmarked to continue in his role had Chris Kirchner’s controversial takeover of Derby been completed, but he left after it fell through. DC United have been without a manager since April and are second bottom of the Eastern Conference and were beaten 7-0 by Philadelphia Union on Friday. The former Everton forward made his professional debut for the Toffees in August 2002 aged just 16. Meanwhile, former England international Jack Wilshere has been appointed head coach of former club Arsenal’s Under-18s. The announcement of the 30-year-old’s first coaching role comes after he retired from playing on 8 July. Wilshere came through Arsenal’s academy before going on to make 197 appearances for the Gunners and winning two FA Cups with the London club. “It’s a huge honour to have this role. It’s no secret that I love this club,” he said. “I love what we stand for and a big part of my life was spent in this academy, some of the best days of my life. “This is a big opportunity for me and I’m ready. I’m hungry and can’t wait to help these young players thrive and be the best they can be on and off the pitch. “It’s a special feeling to be part of the Arsenal family. It never left me, and even though I moved on for a few years, my heart was always still at Arsenal. “I can’t wait to get started and help these young players thrive with a great team around me.” Wlshere also played for West Ham, Bolton, Bournemouth and Danish side AGF Aarhus.    