Kakamega County gubernatorial candidate Fernandez Barasa has called on the clergy to commit this country in intense prayers even as the country heads to the August 9 elections homestretch. While speaking at Bukhungu stadium today (Monday) where he met a section of religious leaders dubbed “Clergy for Azimio” and their representatives from the 60 wards of Kakamega totalling 3000, Barasa said this was a critical moment that required God’s intervention. “I want to ask the Church and the Clergy to earnestly commit this country in prayers as we head to the last stretch of our campaigns towards elections." "Pray for the leaders who are vying for different elective positions and especially me and the Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga to take up the leadership of this country,” Barasa urged Barasa also called on Kakamega residents and fellow political candidates to maintain peace during this time of campaign saying peace was paramount during the campaigns, elections and even after the exercise. Barasa, who is vying on the ODM ticket in Azimio One Kenya, is set to battle it out with ANC's Cleophas Malala, UDP’s Cyrus Jirongo and Maendeleo Democratic Party's Samuel Omukoko. Others are Suleiman Sumba (Kanu), lawyer Michael Osundwa and Optiso Otieno (independent). If elected, he promised appointments of the clergy in the county boards and other areas, create the County chaplaincy office which will ensure that there are County prayer meetings every year, licenses/tax exemption to church meetings and land allocation among other goodies. “I will waive charges on all the church meetings because the church provides free services as they administer the work of God," he said. "They will have a stake in my government as I will appoint some of them CECs and Chief Officers as captured in our memorandum of understanding with them.” The chairman of the Azimio clergy movement Rev. Ken Barasa said the Church was committed to providing 200,000 votes for the candidate in the August 9 elections.