Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has said that he knows the person that blocked his presidential bid, and it is not Raila Odinga. The governor noted that it was only Raila who was concerned enough to reach out to him to know what was happening. Speaking in Murang'a on Saturday, Wa Iria told thousands of his supporters that it was the other team (Kenya Kwanza) that was behind his persecutions as they want to maintain their political hold on the Mt Kenya region. He also blamed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairperson Wafula Chebukati, accusing him of colluding with individuals behind his woes. “I found out that people slaughtered goats and celebrated when I was stopped from vying. Chebukati colluded with people who have been thinking that Mt. Kenya region is their zone. They met and said if I vied, I would jeopardize their bid,” he said. The politicians, he said, thought he would sub-divide their votes from the region and cost them their political aspirations. “They want to use Murang’a people like tissue paper. They had to curtail me so that an individual can get his way. Whoever did it is not Raila,” Wa Iria added. “They will do the same thing to the people of Murang’a if they are elected. They did just like King Herod did when he ordered the execution of all sons to preserve his rule. They want to be worshipped.” On Saturday, the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance leaders officially welcomed Governor Wa Iria into the alliance. This comes just a few days after he announced his decision to support its presidential candidate Raila Odinga. The delegation led by Raila and his running mate Martha Karua held rallies in Kenol town and Kangema town in Kangema constituency before attending the main rally at Mumbi stadium in Murang’a town where they officially received Wa Iria. The second-term governor was vying for the presidency using his party Usawa kwa Wote but failed to be cleared the IEBC over claims that he did not meet the requirements needed to vie for the position. Wa Iria who was the only candidate seeking the presidency from the region after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi dropped his bid to back deputy President William Ruto said his persecutors wanted to leave region unguarded so that they could take advantage. When Raila called him, Wa Iria said they met and talked for over three hours and he assured him no individual could derail his political career. Raila then advised him not to form a resistance movement as he had vowed to and instead invited him into the alliance. Among the things they agreed on are Wa Iria’s manifesto and how it could be incorporated into the Azimio manifesto. The governor said Mt Kenya residents are hardworking farmers and traders which informed his decision to centre his manifesto around household economic empowerment. “We agreed that Raila would help expand the dairy sector by supporting Murang’a County Creameries to enable it to produce more products. Wachuuzi sacco that empowers small traders and Ufundi Kwa Vijana Sacco that provides tools to youths who undertake technical courses would be supported," Wa Iria said. He then proceeded to gift Raila and Karua with a dairy cattle each, symbolising his 'One Home One Cow' programme that he said stalled over lack of funds. Murang’a leaders affiliated to the Azimio coalition hailed Wa Iria for supporting Raila saying it will enable them hit the grassroots in unity to seek votes.