Nairobi City Stars head coach Nicholas Muyoti is happy with the team’s performance in the just-concluded season. Simba Wa Nairobi, as the team is fondly known wrapped up, the season with 49 points to end up a record-high fifth on the 18-team log. It was an improved season compared to the last one as the team managed one extra win to hit 14, and drew 10 matches as compared to nine last season. City also lost a game less to make it 10, finishing four points and two positions better. “Being my first season with the team, I must say we did well. It was an improved performance from last season though I feel we had the capability to do better,” Muyoti told the club’s website. He added: “We had a bad start then we picked up and at some point, we were title contenders but we Just didn’t have enough character and resilience to push and go for the title,” Muyoti used 30 out of a squad of 31 and handed debuts to Jacob Osano, Elvis Ochoro, Rowland Makati, Mohammed Bajaber, Dennis Wanjala, Lennox Ogutu, Michael Madoya, and Augustine Kuta. “I am happy with the overall performance of the team because all the players got an opportunity to play apart from injured Ronnie Kola. Some were very impressive and others couldn’t take the opportunity to become regulars in the team,” noted the former international. He added: “Osano was outstanding in goal as he kept 13 clean sheets. (Herit) Mungai had improved performance, Sven (Yidah), (Anthony) Kimani, (Peter) Opiyo, and Timothy (Ouma) were a class above in midfield. But any time they were out of the team, we struggled. (Oliver) Maloba and Rodgers (Okumu) did well but were not consistent, and (Ezekiel) Odera our top scorer did great,” He also hailed members of his technical bench adding that he is looking forward to an improved 2022/2023 season. “The management played their part and we owe it to them.  Allowances and salaries were timely paid. We thank the fans for their support as they really pushed the team regardless of where we played. We hope they will continue with the same spirit,” he concluded.