Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop taking sides and forcing Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Kenyans. He said the President should remain as a symbol of unity for Kenyans. Speaking during a campaign rally in Embomos ward, Konoin on Wednesday, Barchok said every Kenyan has the right to choose the leader they want and the head of state should stop forcing Kenyans to back Raila. “The move by Uhuru to involve himself in his succession politics is posing a security threat to the country. He should be the last one to talk ill of his deputy William Ruto even if he does not like him,” the governor said. Barchok asked the President to emulate former President Mwai Kibaki (deceased) who exited silently after finishing his term. “DP Ruto played a key role in ensuring the formation of the Jubilee government and the President should stay true to his word of backing UDA party leader,” he said. On Tuesday, Uhuru blasted Ruto for criticising the government, saying such leaders should not get a chance to lead the country. While publicly endorsing Raila for the country's top seat, Uhuru urged Kenyans to critically assess those seeking leadership positions in the August polls to ensure Kenya gets peace-loving and progressive leaders to steer the nation to new heights of prosperity. While endorsing Ruto's presidential bid, Barchok asked Uhuru to leave the DP to compete with Azimio-One Kenya candidate Raila fairly. Barchok hailed Kenya Kwanza manifesto, saying it resonates well with the majority of Kenyans. The governor urged Kenyans to vote for Ruto in the next month’s polls, saying he is best-suited to succeed Uhuru. “DP has served in different capacities and proved that he is up to the task. He is best-placed to bring tangible change because he is the only hope for a better future for the people of Kenya," Barchok said. The county boss said the Deputy President has portrayed himself as a national leader and he would take care of the interests of all Kenyans regardless of the tribe. “Nothing can deter his quest for the presidency because the true measure of leadership is how we cause people to believe in themselves and inspire them to have a reason and motivation to want to work hard to better their lives,” he said. Barchok is defending his seat on the UDA ticket and will face former Governor Isaac Rutto of CCM  party. Edited by A.N