@robertomollo3 Homa Bay governor candidate Evans Kidero has promised to improve the health sector by fighting infant and maternal mortality. Kidero was concerned over the poor state of health facilities in Homa Bay despite the sector getting much allocation of the budget. Homa Bay is one of the counties with a high rate of infant and maternal mortality. It is among the counties with high HIV/AIDS infections and malarial diseases. The bad state of health facilities and poor management have resulted in maternal and infant deaths. On Wednesday, Kidero told residents that his administration will improve the health sector and address the issues. “Homa Bay health facilities are upgraded and equipped with drugs according to the required standards. This will reduce mortalities of children and expectant mothers,” Kidero said. General improvement of the health of the people will be realised in his administration. Speaking during a meeting with more than 2,000 women in Rangwe, Kidero said he is going to improve the provision of water in the county. The women were drawn from all eight constituencies. The former Nairobi governor said he will ensure roads leading to the health facilities are passable. He was concerned that many health facilities do not have access to clean and safe water. Residents living in Homa Bay, Mbita, Sindo and  Kendu Bay suffer a persistent shortage of clean water despite being situated at the shore of Lake Victoria which is a freshwater lake. “It’s disturbing that women in Homa Bay wake up at 5am to travel long distances in search of clean water. Homa Bay has the largest percentage of Lake Victoria water cover but lacks the commodity hence we must address the issue,” he said. Kidero said he will empower farmers by providing them with seeds and other farm inputs at subsidised and affordable prices to enable them to grow various crops. This will lead to the creation of industries in the county. “Homa Bay has various raw materials such as fish, sugarcane and sweet potato among others. We are going to enhance crop production and create industries which will provide jobs for the people,” Kidero said. He said his administration will empower women to ensure they benefit from his administration. In attendance were woman representative hopefuls Moline Ngala (independent) and Mary Ojode (DAP-Kenya). Kidero who is an independent candidate is competing with Gladys Wanga of ODM and Mark Rabudi of UDA. He promised to fight corruption in the county. “There is no development that can be achieved without proper engagement of women. Women will be key in my administration,” Kidero said. Both Ngala and Ojode pledged to utilise NGAAF to benefit women and vulnerable people. Ngala asked residents to vote for a person who can develop them instead of political parties. “Candidates should be voted due to the agenda they have for the people,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris