Challenges are a staple of the human experience. Facing challenges can make you bitter or better. It all depends on what you believe after you’ve gone through life’s trials. Tough situations can make you believe lies about yourself. To survive or thrive, you must understand how lies get installed in your system. The Breaking As you go through each challenge, your beliefs take a hit. Often, life’s blows get severe and your thoughts are attacked in unimaginable ways. These difficult experiences make you question yourself and chip away at your confidence. You begin to question your worth. Here, the breaking begins. It is a simple process: your confidence is taken away, and you’re served lies about your true worth. And this is the painful part: you believe the lies. Each painful experience attempts to change what you believe and how you think about yourself. Over time, you buy into lies that rule your life for long periods. When this occurs, you’re broken. Operative Lies At this point, you live the lies. They are now your truth. Pain, trauma, and life’s crazy experiences sold you lies, and you bought them. Now, you believe that these lies form your true self. “That’s who I am,” you would often declare. Operative lies are untrue thoughts that have become your lifestyle because you believe them deeply. You must understand the lies to which you've subscribed. Whatever is not true about your design is a lie. What lies have you believed? If you’re not sure, let me give you a clue: if it works against your design, it’s a lie. And one sign that it’s working against your design is low confidence. The truth about your worth grows your confidence. Accept The Truth The loss of confidence makes you ignore the fighter in you. The fighter never dies, but once you subscribe to lies, the warrior becomes invisible. That said, how do you reclaim your truth? Go back to the warrior in you and have a conversation. The answer that you seek is found in the fighter within because you have a track record of winning battles. The lies that you live are expensive and exhausting; let the warrior set you free. You are brilliant, powerful, and creative. You are an excellent soul – it is true. Let the warrior remind you of how skilful you are at winning. You no longer have to live by limiting lies. You are worthy of greatness. You are phenomenal, and that’s the truth. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com