President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin Kung'u Muigai on Monday said the ongoing wars of words between him and his deputy William Ruto is a shame to the nation. "I want to say this, they are embarrassing the nation. They are leaders and this thing they are doing is a shame and might raise problems in the country," he said. Muigai said he is yet to figure out why the leaders are on each others' necks, adding that he has tried asking and mediating between them, all in vain. He warned that Ruto and his boss might be cultivating a violent seed for the younger generation. "When they are spatting at each other, there are children watching. How are they perceiving it? We have a saying, 'When elders spat at each other, the youth will pelt stones or throw spears at each other'". The Kikuyu elder said the spat, was a sibling rivalry, which is usually harmless unless it is taken a step further. "The sibling rivalry is okay. But now this needs to stop. I will tell them, they have exaggerated it. It needs to stop," he added. The Kikuyu Council of Elders Patron pointed out that Ruto's remarks on almost slapping the outgoing president were made in a light moment. "I don't even want to comment on the remarks of him wanting to slap Uhuru. He was joking. He just wanted to get the elders laughing. That is not a serious thing. Those were his feelings and he did not even slap him," Muigai added. He advised Kenyans to focus on what is important. He also urged elders countrywide to stay vigilant of the youth, especially those in politics. Muigai has openly endorsed the Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate for the top seat. He reiterated that his vote and that of his people will go to the DP in 35 days. "The people still love Uhuru but we have told him we will not follow him in this election - much as we love him - we do not like where he is taking us." Muigai said, Uhuru as a member of the Kikuyu elders, should not break his promise to Ruto. Uhuru promised 10 years to Ruto after his tenure. "A union can fall apart. But we do not know why theirs broke and why the promise was broken."