A month after narrowly missing out on the Kenyan Premier League title, Kakamega Homeboyz's first-choice goalkeeper Geoffrey Oputi has finally broken his silence to vent out his profound frustrations. In an exclusive interview on Sunday, Oputi described the eerie feeling and the shadow of hopelessness that suddenly engulfed their camp following the anticlimactic end to the season. The situation might have even been worse for him as he suffered a double tragedy, after losing his father. The rain started beating Oputi when his father, Simon Oputi, passed away in May, aged 61, after a long battle with diabetes. Then a month later, the skies opened up further and he had to grapple with another heartwrenching encounter when they dramatically missed out on the coveted top-flight title to rivals Tusker. This, despite the Kakamega-based side having taken command of the proceedings for the better part of the season and losing grip to the brewers as the competition entered the homestretch. “We felt so much devastated after a hard-fought season. We just couldn't believe we were not going to lift the trophy after all that hard work,” Oputi said. That notwithstanding, Oputi now says he is ready to brush both setbacks aside as he firmly trains his eyes on a new fruitful season. “Next season, we are going to fight for the championship; that's our main aim. “We are reporting to training next week to prepare for the two-day Elijah Lidonde Memorial tournament that will be held in Kakamega and then focus on charging for the KPL title in the new season.” Four Kenyan Premier League clubs — AFC Leopards, Kakamega Homeboyz, Vihiga Bullets and Nzoia Sugar — have confirmed participation in the two-day tournament that kicks off at Bukhungu Stadium on July 9. Oputi says he is not harboring any ill feelings about Tusker who literally stole the honey from their pot at the eleventh hour. “The reality is that Tusker are now champions no matter what happened. They beat us on a healthier goal difference and it would be unfair to say they were favoured by the league organizers. However, he is quick to call out their rivals Kariobangi Sharks and FC Talanta whom he blames for their woes. “My disappointment is with the clubs that failed to appear for our league matches and denied us the opportunity to beef up our goal tally. That's what poked holes in our title dreams and made us lose hope.” Oputi says he is not aware of any imminent departures at Homeboyz even after reports emerged in a section of local media linking four of their players to rival clubs. “Contrary to reports circulating in the media, the team is still intact because we have not received any official reports of any players who've left the club,” Oputi said.