Tokyo has been selected to host the 20th edition of the World Athletics Championships in 2025. The East Asia city secured the rights on Thursday after holding off stiff competition from Nairobi, Silesia and Singapore. The decision was rubber-stamped at the council's meeting in Eugene, just hours before the 18th edition of the World Championships that began on Friday. World Athletics president Sebastian Coe said Tokyo clinched the hosting rights on merit. He thanked all the cities that took the time and effort to prepare bids, saying they displayed a commitment to athletics. He urged them not to tire of seeking future hosting rights. "Within an extremely strong field of candidates to host the World Athletics Championships 2025, Tokyo offered a compelling bid,” Coe said. "I hope this will be a shining light for Japan as they celebrate 100 years of the Japanese Association of Athletics Federations (JAAF) in 2025, by bringing world-class athletics back to the people in Tokyo." This is the second major event being hosted by Japan after the delayed 2020 Tokyo Olympics held behind closed doors in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Budapest will host the 2023 World Championships, with this year's event having been pushed back 12 months to accommodate the Tokyo Olympics in 2021. Coe did not rule out the possibility of hosting the World Athletics Championships in an African country in the future. “It is really important that we work together with Africans to make sure that their time comes, and their time comes when it’s right,” Coe said. JAAF President Mitsugi Ogata thanked the world athletics body for believing in Tokyo. “We are immensely proud that World Athletics has demonstrated its confidence and trust in Japan to host the 2025 World Athletics Championships,” Ogata said. “History has shown that we have the ability and energy to host the world’s top athletes and to inspire international audiences. We promise that the Olympic Stadium in Tokyo will be full of fans to become an unforgettable experience for the athletes and everyone involved.” “Together with World Athletics as one team, we will capitalise on this opportunity to showcase the best possible global event for growing our sport to a higher level.” The 18th edition of the World Athletics Championships is set to begin on Friday, July 15 in Oregon, United States with the 2023 championships slated for Budapest. The Council also confirmed that the next two editions of the World Athletics Cross Country Championships will be held in Croatia (2024) and the USA (2026). Australia is set to host the event next year. Croatian Athletics Federation President Ivan Vestic said the country felt honoured to be selected for the event. “We are thankful to World Athletics for the trust shown and now it is up to us in the next 18 months to present Croatia, Istria, Medulin and Pula, and the World Cross Country Championships, at the highest possible level. “In 2002, the best Europeans ran in Medulin and now, in 2024, the world’s best athletes will run on the most beautiful cross track in the world.” “Tallahassee, Florida, is beyond excited to have been chosen to host the 2026 World Athletics Cross Country Championships,” said Visit Tallahassee Executive Director Kerri Post. “We are honoured and grateful to World Athletics for the opportunity to host this prestigious event and look forward to welcoming the world to Florida.” The World Athletics Cross Country Championships will return to the USA for the first time since 1992 when Boston hosted the event. New York also staged the event in 1984.