The Kerio Valley Development Authority has embarked on diversification of the livelihoods of communities living in Turkana and West Pokot counties through promotion of fish farming in Turkwel dam. Apart from increasing ways of earning revenue for members of the communities, the project is also intended to mitigate the effects of the recurring drought. Speaking to KNA at the KVDA offices in Eldoret, managing director Sammy Naporos said the project will enable the communities to adopt a new way of livelihood and not overly depend on rearing cattle that are affected a lot by drought. He added the project will also promote peaceful coexistence and cohesion among the communities living around the Turkwel dam. Naporos said the Turkwel dam is about 66 kilometers square, where currently 1,000 farmers are able to practice fish farming to diversify their livelihoods. “The current number of farmers practising fish farming is 1,000 farmers and they have three fish landing areas. We have Riting, which is the main one, Murgorio, and Kangoletiang. The target of the authority is to push the number of fish farmers to about 3000 in the next two years,” said Naporos. He pointed out that the authority did the first fish stocking in 2006, with the major fish breed being Tilapia. The managing director further said that KVDA has formed a beach management unit that is able to enlighten the farmers through various trainings on proper fish handling and safety. “We also promote safety within the dam. There is training on safety and we provide safety gear especially life jackets to fishermen within the dam. We have also trained four coxswains from the Kenya Maritime Authority on rescue and safety in case of any accident while fishing in the dam and Lake Turkana,” Naporos said. Naporos said the authority has partnered with various institutions like the Department of Fisheries at the University of Eldoret and Lake Basin Development Authority to help in research and training. He further explained that in December 2021 they introduced half a million fingerlings, which led to the dam being closed temporarily for six months for breeding purposes and was reopened last month. Through the restocking programme by the end of 2023 the authority is targeting to achieve increased production from the current annual average of 100 tonnes to 140 tonnes to 160 tonnes. In addition, fish maximum weight is expected to increase from 200 grams table size to between 300-350 grams. The project has also helped to increase per capita income due to increased value from the previous average of Sh 50-70 to 100-150 per table size fish, which in turn has improved food and nutrition security through provision of an alternative source of food with high nutritional value. “The problem with the dam, unlike the lake, is that the fish in the dam are never the same size as those in the lakes, because of the food that is available. So we are working with these departments to try and get the right kind of algae species to sustain the fish in terms of quality,” he said. “The reason why we introduced the new breed is that there has been a lot of inbreeding reducing the size and the quantity of fish. That’s why in December we introduced a different variety of fish to do a new multiplication”. The managing director pointed out that the fish farming project has also been able to move to the commercial level, with the towns that benefit being Riting, Ortum, Kapenguria, Kitale and Eldoret. KVDA is also exploring more projects like cage fishing, where fish are provided with supplementary food at one place. The fish caught from the current system are bigger than the fish in the dam and that one cage can yield up to Sh 1 million in terms of sales. The other project KVDA has embarked on is working with the Ministry of Tourism to profile Turkwel dam and Lake Turkana as one of the tourist destinations within the northern region. “Profiling the dam as a tourist destination is something that we are working on and the Ministry of Tourism will have a team that will inspect the place. We will be happy every weekend to have a bus taking campus students to the dam since it is also one of the most unique dams in terms of design and hydraulics.West Pokot also has one of the best sceneries in terms of landscapes,” Naporos said. He said the main challenge facing the Turkwel dam and Lake Turkana is human-wildlife conflict posed by crocodiles that have been reported. He said the authority had laid down proper measures to minimise threats to human life by recruiting wardens to move around, monitor and advice the community on how to stay safe. The communities living around the dam have lauded the project by KVDA, saying it has helped transform their livelihoods economically, while at the same time improving their nutrition. Regina Lokorinyang, a resident of Tiring in Turkwel who is a beneficiary of the project, said it has helped her pay school fees for her children and enabled her to fend for the family. Vincent Opio, a youth in the area, said the project has provided the youth with source of employment through fishing. "We are able to practice fishing from which we earn money for our domestic needs and commercial purposes too. We have built houses and buy food because this place does not support crop farming as it has a rocky terrain," Opio said. Riting fish landing site BMU chairperson Lopuo Lotelelkwang said that the management had ensured each person uses recommended nets to avoid fishing undersize fish to prevent exhaustion of the stocks in the lake. Edited by Henry Makori