Embattled former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko now says he will move to the East Africa Court of Justice to seek a review of the Supreme Court ruling that upheld his impeachment. His declaration on Saturday came even as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said it will make its stand known over his gubernatorial candidature next week. "We have filed for a review before the same Supreme Court and we have also filed before the East Africa Court of Justice," Sonko said. He said the EACJ is recognised under the Kenyan Constitution and has jurisdiction to hear his appeal. "So mtu akisema Sonko kwisha, this is the end of Sonko, it's the start of Sonko not the end of Sonko," he added. The former governor insisted that Chief Justice and Supreme Court President Martha Koome should not have sat on the seven-bench panel that decided his fate. He held that the CJ had pronounced herself on the case in a radio interview and made her stand known and should have recused herself over conflict of interest. Sonko further said the ruling was unfair since his legal team was denied sufficient time to file evidence as his appeal was heard in one day. The Supreme Court on Friday upheld Sonko's impeachment of December 17, 2020 by the Senate, technically halting his return to active politics. The ex city boss had moved to the apex court seeking a reversal of the ouster after failed attempts at both the High Court and Court of Appeal. The Supreme Court said Sonko was rightfully removed from office as he had failed to prove that the removal process was flawed. In effect, he stands ineligible to hold any public office either by way of appointment or election. But Sonko who is eyeing the Mombasa governor seat at the August 9 general election on a Wiper Party ticket thinks otherwise. "Martha Koome is not above the law. I'm consulting, I might also be forced to file a complaint against her at the JSC and she must recuse herself from the JSC when her complaint goes there," Soko said in an address to the Media. "If a person like me can be denied justice, where are we heading as a country," Sonko paused. But even then, it's a rush against time for the flamboyant politician as the country is only 23 days away from the general elexction. However, the IEBC may come to his rescue as early as next week should it uphold his clearance to vie. The commission handed Nairobi Senator a reprieve and refused to withdraw his clearance certificate even after the Commission for University Education withdrew the recognition of his Team University degree. IEBC said it can only withdraw Sakaja's clearance to contest for the Nairobi governor seat on the strength of a court order. On Sonko's issue, chairperson Wafula Chebukati said he is yet to review the Supreme Court ruling but he will do so by Monday or Tuesday next week. "As a commission we shall look at the issues and maybe get back to the country on Monday or Tuesday," he said. The Supreme Court in upholding Sonko's impeachment did not say if that amounts to him being ineligible to vie. However, Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity bars any individual removed from office for contravening the law from ever holding any public office.