Rights groups have raised concern over the government’s preparedness to handle violence, with only weeks left to the election. In December 2021, more than 30 rights groups in Nairobi came together to launch the Mulika Wabakaji Campaign, which aims to have perpetrators of sexual gender-based violence held accountable. Under the campaign, the lobbies did a scenario-building exercise with respondents across Nairobi to find out what they expected in the upcoming polls. In a press briefing in Nairobi, Florence Mwikali of Peace Brigades International said they developed three possible scenarios from the responses. “There was the best, the worst and the status quo scenario. The best-case scenario saw no violence at all, the worst-case saw violence erupting and the status quo saw a fifty-fifty chance of having both scenarios occur,” she said. Mwikali said in the event of a worst-case scenario, they foresaw disruption of essential services that potential survivors of sexual violence would need access to. “Violence would affect transport and getting to safe houses, healthcare facilities or police stations would be difficult. Due to fear, essential workers may also flee and cause these services to be greatly reduced or disrupted,” she said. Wangu Kanja Foundation founder Wangu Kanja said whenever there is conflict, public services tend to shut down. “As much as we are praying that there will be no violence this time around, the national and county governments need to make sure that services are available to survivors of SGBV just in case,” she said. In April, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and the National Police Service launched the 2022 Election Security Arrangement Programme Manual. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said the manual is supposed to enhance vigilance and effectiveness and prevent any security breaches and irregularities during the election. This year, the manual will also address human rights violations and  sexual and gender-based violence. Kanja said often, survivors fail to attain justice because the state fails to prepare adequately. In 2013, eight survivors of poll sexual violence went to court to sue the state for failure to prepare for the chaos. The court awarded Sh4 million compensation to the survivors and four of them have already received the money. She, however, said all that can be avoided if the government is well prepared. If all else fails, the Mulika Wabakaji Campaign has in place a wide array of resources to support survivors. Alberto Fait of Peace Brigades International said among the 30 groups in the consortium, they can provide safe houses, legal aid, psychosocial support and awareness on the importance of reporting cases of SGBV. They also reminded Kenyans that various helplines will be available for survivors to reach out for help. There is the  National toll-free hotline 1195, Gender and Child protection services 0800 730 999, the Center for Rights Education and Awareness 0800 720 186, Federation of Women Lawyers of Kenya and the National Police Service Gender desks 999 or 112. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)