By now we all know that food affects various vital organs of our bodies. Your vagina is pretty good at protecting and cleaning itself. Therefore it is advised that proper vaginal care, such as practicing good hygiene on and off menstruation, safe sex, and regular gynaecological visits, all play a role in keeping your pH in check. Having a healthy vagina gives you more confidence in bed. According to experts, the vagina is a very complex system and if you are curious about food, there are a variety of foods that researchers have outlined, that is good for maintaining good vaginal health. They say an apple a day keeps the doctor away, and that is true. Research has shown that apples help to boost sexual pleasure in women. A 2014 study as stated by Healthline, showed that women who ate an apple at least once a day had a better sex drive. Experts suggest a compound found in apples plays a major role in promoting a high sex drive in women. To add to that, red apples, which are high in antioxidants, help to stimulate blood flow to the vagina. Thus promoting better sexual function, arousal, lubrication, and ability to orgasm. Adding greens to your diet is not only good for your lady parts but also, your overall health. Leafy green vegetables like spinach, broccoli, kale or sukumawiki, terere, and all common leafy greens are naturally blood-purifying. This helps to enhance circulation, hence preventing vaginal dryness and increasing stimulation. Avocados have numerous health benefits when it comes to women’s reproductive health. Packed with Vitamin E, which is a major antioxidant, avocados help to maintain a healthy blood flow. It also contains libido-boosting saturated fats, Vitamin B6, and potassium which may enhance lubrication and strengthen vaginal walls. If you want to improve your vaginal health it is high time you ditch the bread and those baked pastries and start your morning with a delicious sweet potato. Sweet potatoes are good for women who are trying to get pregnant. This is because they have high amounts of Vitamin A which improves fertility in both women and men. According to Cassie Bjork, RD, LD, of Healthy Simple Life, its Vitamin A content also helps strengthen muscle tissues for strong, healthy vaginal walls. Other nutrients found in sweet potatoes also help with the production of sex hormones and are recommended for women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Hydration is key when you want to maintain a well-lubricated vagina. Studies have shown that water also helps to remove toxins from the body. Drinking a lot of  water throughout the day helps to maintain the proper functioning of the vagina which has a self-cleaning system, allowing secretions to be released as well as maintaining a proper PH which helps ward off infections. Eating probiotic rich foods like natural or Greek yoghurt helps to prevent yeast infections and maintain a healthy PH. Yoghurt has active cultures which helps boost good bacteria in our bodies. Yoghurt is also packed with calcium which has been shown to maintain PMS symptoms. It is also advised to go easy on processed foods, salt, sugar and alcohol, if you want to maintain a healthy vaginal health.