On August 6th Chelsea play Everton. That is the day when Thomas Tuchel will see the results of Chelsea’s summer purchases. Tuchel knows that under new owner Todd Boehly, he is on trial as much as his players. Failure this coming season will see him shown the door to join the other executives who have left during the club’s re-organization following the end of the Abramovich era. Tuchel told his players that defeat at Everton is not an option…they must win and start the season strongly. Tuchel said, “For instance, we are aware  of the situation at White Hart Lane…if you look at the transfer period of Tottenham with Conte, it’s maybe the strongest team they have ever built.” De Jong saga continues for United Manchester United say they are still confident of signing Frenkie de Jong. The midfielder left with the Barcelona team and flew to Miami for pre-season training but appears to be in dispute with the Catalan club because Barca wants him off their books and need a transfer fee of £63million plus another £ 8 million signing-on fee. Frenkie, however, has other ideas and does not want to leave Spain. Barca have already borrowed and spent big money this season, signing four players including Raphina from Leeds and £42million Robert Lewandowski from Bayern Munich. Their current wage bill is £520million and if he stays, De Jong will earn close to £19million next year according to his contract. United officials are virtually camped in Barcelona negotiating and patiently waiting…both clubs are in agreement but only Frenkie is stalling on a move. Erik ten Hag is remaining calm regarding the situation and says that if he cannot land De Jong it will open the door for one of the United squad to step in and earn his big chance because there is everything to play for under his new leadership and everyone has a chance. Ten Hag said, “We’re looking for a player who can play in the holding position, but it has to be the right one. There are not many in that position capable of the level we demand. If we can’t find him we will develop one of our own players in that position.” Zinchenko will be good for the Gunners As I reported to you, Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta still wants to improve his midfield options and the Gunners have completed a £35million deal for Manchester City’s Ukrainian international Oleksandr Zinchenko who has, of course, been in the news supporting his home country as they fight the invasion from Russia. He said a tearful farewell to his City teammates and fans on Tuesday and Wednesday. Oleksandr can play as an attacking left-back and midfielder and Arteta feels they are two good options for his strategy. He also knows that Oleksandr prefers to play in midfield but was mainly used in the defensive line at City. Leicester’s Youri Tielemans is also on Arteta’s radar but capturing his signature is proving to be a challenge as Leicester do not want to lose him. The appeal of Tielemans is his ability to play from box to box and is very creative and that also fits in with Arteta’s pressing fast play football. Mahrez commits to Man City Manchester City’s Riyad Mahrez says he wants to fill his trophy cabinet before he retires and therefore has committed the rest of his career to the club. The 30-year-old Algerian international this week signed an extension to his current contract which will take him to 2025. He has already won seven major trophies since joining Pep Guardiola’s team in 2018. Guimaraes will shine in Premier League Newcastle were on tour in Austria and new signing Bruno Guimaraes demonstrated just how he is going to light up the Premier League this coming season with some powerful football during their 3-0 win over 1860 Munich. After he rejected a move to AC Milan, Newcastle waved their cheque book and captured him. Before moving on to Portugal for their second summer tour, the players trained hard in 26 degrees of heat. Only two players were missing from the training and after breakfast, Kieran Trippier, Jonjo Shelvey and Allan Saint-Maximum all biked to training and others were quick to join them to impress the manager. The team bus was empty and ended up carrying only the players’ kit. Music blared out from speakers during training and ended up with Neil Diamond’s “Sweet Caroline” which seems to be everywhere at sporting events these days. When you meet Eddie Howe at a press conference, he is the nicest man but when in charge of training, he is like Tottenham’s Antonio Conte — ruthless when putting his players through the pain barrier. Everything is filmed and every player’s efforts are examined the following morning. Newcastle are examining ways to lure Leeds’ Jack Harrison to Tyneside and Eddie Howe says he is an example of the all-energy player he wants in his team and the £35million price tag will not be a problem. Injury problems for Liverpool Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is playing down the new injury to Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain. Both he and Diogo Jota face battles to be fit for the start of the new season. Klopp said, “I don’t know exactly how long it will take but he will be back and then it’s all fine. It happened with Ox in the past and when play gets intense something can happen. Now, this is just a muscle thing and that’s OK. We had worse situations so I’m okay with it.” Goalkeeper Alisson Becker is also on the injury list and has suffered an abdominal problem. He will be fit for the Community Shield match against Manchester City on July 30th but I was informed that Jota will definitely not play. Lingard caught between two clubs I am told that Nottingham Forest are in close contact with former Manchester United midfielder Jesse Lingard and are trying to sign him on a free transfer. Forest will make him their highest-paid player at £180k a week. West Ham are also trying to sign him but Lingard’s wage demands are putting them off making an offer. After speaking to both club sources the strange situation is that West Ham think Lingard will join Forest and Forest think he will be signed by West Ham. Watch this space. Moyes confident of landing Broja Striker Armando Broja has returned early from Chelsea’s US tour for treatment at the Cobham training centre. He twisted an ankle during a session workout. West Ham manager David Moyes is hoping to sign Broja and the Hammers have increased their offer to £30 million with another £5 million in extras. Last season Broja was on loan to Southampton. Highly rated Billy Gilmour is considering how to progress his future now he has been told that Chelsea will loan out the Scotland midfielder next season. Shelvey is better than ever, thanks to Eddie Howe I always enjoy watching Newcastle’s Jonjo Shelvey. He is, in my opinion, a very talented footballer who always gives 100 percent. Despite the arrival of Brazil’s midfielder Bruno Guimaraes and the possibility of Eddie Howe bringing in more talent before the new season starts, Jonjo has committed his future to the club. He joked about his age but said, “You are always playing for a new contract and I’m not getting any younger. I am now 30 years of age! I want to be part of what is happening here and the positivity is great. Also, my missus and kids love it up here.” He said of Eddie Howe, “He’s constantly on you, reviewing your game, showing you clips. He lives and breathes football and has instilled that into everyone. It’s football, football, football. It’s not natural for me to have a defensive mind but he has helped me develop that side of my game and I am a more complete player now.” Howe said after a 0-1 loss to Mainz in a friendly in Kufstein, Austria that he needs to improve his players around the opponent’s goal area. He said, “Out creativity wasn’t quite there.” PSG and Barca pounce on Villa’s star kid I must admit I was surprised that Aston Villa left 18-year-old Carney Chukwuemeka at home when they traveled to Australia for their pre-season tour. That sent out the message to other clubs that the player is up for sale. Paris Saint-Germain immediately contacted Chukwuemeka’s agent to discuss a possible fee and personal terms. Barcelona also acted straight away and renewed their long-held interest in signing the England Under-19 international. Where he goes is up to the player because he has turned down the chance to extend his contract with Villa which has a year to run and the club will cash in on his value now rather than let him leave next year for nothing. In case we forget Mourinho’s achievements Never one to be out of the limelight, Jose Mourinho has now entered the world of personal body tattoos. He has three cups printed on his right arm/shoulder which boast his personal achievements. The 59-year-old has images of the Champions’ League Cup (won with Porto and Inter Milan), the Europa League (won with Manchester City), and the Europa Conference League (won with Roma last season). Manchester United we stand tall When the Premier League’s tallest footballers enter Manchester United’s penalty area for a corner they might feel rather small. Brighton’s Dan Burn and Southampton’s Fraser Forster are both 6’6” (201cms). However, Manchester United’s incoming player, £55million Argentina center-back Lisandro Martinez, stands at an incredible 6’9” (182cms).