Olympic 800 m champion Emmanuel Korir will be seeking to add the world title to his resume when the men's final takes place on Sunday (4:10 a.m EAT). Korir topped his heat in 1:45.38 and believes he is in good form in what he expects to be a competitive final. The United States-based athlete termed said having three Kenyans in the final will be ideal in their chase for podium places. “It's good to have all of us in the final. I know it will be a tough race but am looking forward to it. I think I have enough experience from winning at the Olympics in Tokyo and am relishing the challenge,” said Korir. He will be joined by Commonwealth Games champion Wycliffe Kinyamal and World Under 20 champion Emmanuel Wanyonyi. Kinyamal said he is inspired by two-time Olympic champion and world record holder David Rudisha. "Rudisha remains the yardstick for our performance and I can't wait for the final as I seek to emulate him,” said Kinyamal, who finished second behind Korir in 1:45.49. "Our planning will be key. We know the competition is going to be tough and if we plan well we should be able to win." Wanyonyi said the race will be too close to call. "We are all going to give it our best and do the country proud. I thank God am safely through to the final,” added Wanyonyi. Wanyonyi came third in his heat, posting 1:45.12. Noah Kibet failed to make it to the final after finishing eighth in Heat Two, timing 1:47.15. Meanwhile, African junior champion Nicholas Kimeli has appealed to Kenyans not to give up on the men's 5000m trio. Despite, sailing through to the final as one of the fastest losers after finishing sixth in his heat in 13:24.56, Kimeli noted that he is still in good shape and ready to bring a medal from Oregon. He attributed his below-par performance in the heats to running at a slow pace and being blocked when the race intensified. “I want to tell Kenyans not to be worried because my form is still good and I am ready to compete in the final. I hope you will pardon me for that disappointing race but I know my mistake and I’ll work on it," Kimeli said. The 23-year-old also congratulated his counterparts, African U20 silver medalist  Jacob Krop and Daniel Simiu, who will accompany him in the final. Krop won his heat in 13:13.10 while Simiu settled for sixth place in his heat, timing 13:17.17. Krop said he anticipates tough competition but believes something good is in store for Kenya. “The final is not going to be a walk in the park but I expect the best and I am hopeful we shall do well,” he said. Simiu, who made his debut in the World Championships in Oregon, expressed his gratitude to God, having made it to the final. “So far so good and I thank God that I have made it to the finals. I know God is preparing me for more and I am hopeful that I will yield good results in the final,” he said. The men’s 5,000m finals are scheduled for Monday at 4:05 a.m (EAT).