The body of 50-year-old house help was found on her employer’s sofa seat after she was allegedly choked by sweet potatoes she was taking in Kamulu area, Nairobi. Police said they were called and informed the body of Lilian Muthoni was at the scene and when they visited there they realized the woman had died a few hours earlier. She held a cup of tea and her mouth had pieces of sweet potatoes that she was taking for breakfast. Nairobi police boss James Mugera said they are yet to confirm if the woman died out of choking or was killed by something else. He said their preliminary findings suggest she may have been choked by the food leading to her death. Mugera said police are investigating the death of the woman who was a mother of three. The body was moved to the mortuary where an autopsy is planned to confirm further the cause of the death. Elsewhere along Kangundo Road, passengers on a public service vehicle cut short their trip when they were informed there was a dead passenger therein. Police and witnesses said the female passenger had boarded the matatu in the central business district headed for Kangundo Road when she was found seated unresponsive on the way. A passenger who was seated next to her and who alighted midway in Kayole told the bus driver the woman was not responding, which prompted them to drive to a nearby hospital where she was confirmed dead. Police were informed of the incident and declared they had not established the cause of death. An autopsy is planned on the body. And an epileptic remandee was found dead in Nairobi’s Industrial Area Remand and Allocation. The remandee identified as Peter Mwaniki Wambura, 24, and who had been detained for murder charges was found dead during a head count at the facility. The body was moved to the mortuary pending autopsy. At Kamiti prisons, a convict Peter Maingi Musyoki died at the facility. He was a murder convict. Authorities said the convict was unwell before he died. He had apparently appealed to be pardoned under the presidential programme.