The United Democratic Alliance and the Kenya Kwanza brigade in Mombasa have accused Haki Africa, a Coast-based human rights group, of playing partisan politics. UDA Mombasa gubernatorial candidate Hassan Omar on Monday said they are writing to the IEBC to deny the group observer status in the August 9 general election for allegedly being biased. Speaking during a press conference at UDA offices in Nyali, Mombasa, Omar said executive director Hussein Khalidi is "involved too much in partisan politics." “We will not allow Haki Africa to play any role in monitoring the election or be part of election observers in the region," Omar said. “We will not allow you (Haki Africa) to come into polling stations under the banner of election observers, but you may come in as ODM agents.” Khalid has since denied the allegations. He asked UDA to bring any kind of evidence they have against them showing that the rights group has been playing partisan politics. “We have never been partisan. If they have any evidence against me or any of my staff members, we would kindly ask them to provide that to us and we will take action,” he said. According to Omar, UDA has also received an invite from Haki Africa for a planned Mombasa gubernatorial debate, but the organisers of that event have already met with other governor candidates to plan. “You (Haki Africa) have already sat down with our competitors to agree on the format of debate. UDA and Kenya Kwanza will not be involved in any kind of activity where Haki Africa, a totally biased and compromised human rights organisation, is involved,” he said. However, Khalid said they are not planning any gubernatorial debate in Mombasa. “We have no budget for gubernatorial debate in Mombasa or any other county in the country. This is news to me,” he said. The UDA fraternity also accused the ODM team of removing their campaign posters within Mombasa. “They took all the billboards in Mombasa. We never asked for the billboards. They are now removing our posters and we are asking IEBC and the police to immediately intervene,” Omar said. “If they continue to remove our posters, we will take legal action against them or we will remove their posters too.” Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said they have been witnessing people and aspirants being attacked in Mombasa during campaign rallies. He claimed their Tudor MCA candidate Samir Balo and their deputy governor candidate Selina Maitha have been trailed by unknown people.  (edited by Amol Awuor)