Wajir wiper governor candidate Siyad Abdullahi has promised to give women equal opportunities and ease of access to government resources. He said women are the backbone of societies and must be incorporated in matters development. Abdullahi spoke during an endorsement by women from the Jibrail community in Wajir town on Saturday. “Having women in leadership positions is the key in increasing their access to economic, social and political empowerment. This is what my administration will strive to do,” he said. Abdullahi who picked Abdia Baraka as his running mate said choosing her means he cares for the women folk. He said having more women in leadership positions increases their participation in decision making and creates more leadership opportunities by building their confidence. “Women understand better the challenges people go through in the society. They are our mothers and sisters. "By picking Baraka, I decided to lead by example. Women across Wajir now have one of their own to vote for,” the candidate said. Abdullahi however urged women to use the remaining days to popularise his bid by mobilising and passing the message to the electorate. According to statistics, women account for more than half of Kenya's population. In 2017, 19.6 million were registered as voters translating to 47 per cent. “The numbers of our women voters cannot be underestimated in an election. In actual sense they are the ones who come out to vote. It is for this reason that I besiege you to elect good leaders at the ballot,” Abdullahi said. Baraka, a teacher by profession said they will use the remaining days to move into the villages and seek for votes. She urged her fellow women to support their candidature. “As you all know my captain Abdullahi become the first candidate in the pastoralist counties to pick a woman as his running mate. "This in itself is a very big statement. It means he values us and wants to incorporate us in his administration. We have every reason to support and vote for him,” Baraka said. She said women face a lot of challenges that can only be tackled well by one of their own. “I want to assure all women in Wajir that I am up to the task and I will not let you down,” Baraka said. The deputy candidate who hails from the Ajuran community said she will prioritise access to clean water and quality healthcare. She said she will also be a champion of human rights and fight domestic violence against women and girls, which is rampant in the county. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)