A health lobby group has expressed reservations on the ability of the four presidential candidates to sufficiently address issues ailing the sector. The Kenya Association of private hospitals (KAPH) said none of the manifestos unveiled by DP William Ruto, Raila Odinga, George Wajackoyah, and David Wahiga fully committed to bring the necessary health reforms. “Beyond all the claims, none of the manifestos has a blueprint of what is expected of a comprehensive health care approach,” secretary general Timothy Olweny said. He said that health is a standard component that must be captured by coalition and political party agendas. Olweny said health issues need radical interventions to cater for the actions  not covered in manifestos. “No political party had health issues radically discussed as we understand them as an association,” he said. Azimio la Umoja’s Ten Point Agenda advocates for universal health coverage under 'Baba Care', Kenya Kwanza's The Plan on the other hand has fronted the idea of a fully financed public primary healthcare. Angano Party's 'Badilisha' has overlooked universal health coverage but prioritised cancer patients, accident victims, and any form of non-elective surgery by waiving bills for anybody who dies in a government hospital and for the aged to receive free medical services. Wajakoyah of the Roots Party talked of legalising marijuana for health purposes but with economic benefits as the key agenda. Speaking on Friday during an interview on Spice FM, Olweny stressed the need for leaders to look deeply into the health sector. "It is important to interrogate these manifestos with a view that they identify the challenges we have in healthcare system.” Olweny pointed out that being a broad sector, healthcare requires ideological alignment in a manner that presents solutions for implementation. "If it aligns with what their broader policies are, then they’re likely to implement it,” he said. Olweny pointed out that adding more facilities to the already existing ones is not a solution. The solution, he said, lies in financing and facilitating available health sources to change the sector. “A lot of institutions we have should run just the way they were meant to run, let us use the resources we have,” he said. (Edited by R Wanjala)