Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has intensified grassroots campaigns to unseat Senator Kipchumba Murkomen in next month's polls. Murkomen, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, was almost assured of an easy third consecutive reelection, but Tolgos has spoiled the party for him with grassroots campaigns that have altered the race for the Senate seat. During previous elections, Murkomen did not even campaign and he was easily reelected. But with the entry of Tolgos, he has been forced to retreat from national campaigns for the DP and camp in Elgeyo Marakwet to fight for political survival. “Our campaigns are centred on issues affecting our people and not political sycophancy, as has been the case for so many years,” Tolgos said. The governor spoke when he took his campaigns to the doorstep of Murkomen with campaigns around the home area of the senator. Tolgos, who is completing his second term, is vying for the Senate seat through Jubilee under the Azimio coalition. The governor toured Sambirir ward. He made stops at Maina Centre before attending a series of other meetings in Nyirar, Kapkuto, Chemworor, Metipsoo, Chesoi Centre 2, Kimuren, Tuturung and Tirap. The governor urged residents to elect him, saying he would push for additional resources to Elgeyo Marakwet county, which he said received the least allocation from the national government as a result of an unfavourable formula. Tolgos presented his scorecard, saying it was characterised by prudent management of public resources throughout his tenure. Political analysts say Murkomen had a smooth ride in previous elections, but this time year’s race is proving to be a battle royal between the two political bigwigs in the region. Tolgos has also received backing from professionals in the county who have also thrown their weight behind Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Analysts say the manner in which Tolgos has stepped up his campaign seems to be threatening Murkomen's chances. Reports indicate that UDA teams in the region have urged DP Ruto to set aside two days to campaign in the region where his candidates are facing possible defeat by those from other parties or independents. Sources in UDA indicate that DP Ruto will visit Elgeyo Marakwet and Uasin Gishu in the next few days to campaign for UDA candidates in areas where they have been overwhelmed by rivals. “We will win all seats through UDA because residents of these regions will not accept to be misled by self-seekers,” Murkomen  said. Murkomen and Tolgos have been trading accusations over several issues which are also helping shape the political battle between them. They have accused each other over the Sh63 billion Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal which led to the stalling of the two projects due to corruption allegations. Insecurity in Kerio Valley is also another issue and each of them is promising to deal with the matter decisively if elected.  Edited by A.N