Some 62 workers from the informal sector have been certified by the National Industrial Training Authority through the Recognition of Prior Learning policy. On Wednesday, the first cohorts graduated during a ceremony at the Base Titanium in Kwale county. They were trained in welding, cabinet making, motor vehicle, masonry, scaffolding, painting, plumbing, dressmaking and tailoring. The event was graced by Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelegui. “Today, we are here to witness youths, who did not have formal education graduating after undergoing training,” Chelugui said. They were assessed by the Nita with the support of the Kenya National Qualifications Authority. RPL is the process used to identify, assess and certify a candidate's knowledge, skills and competencies acquired in non-formal or formal learning. Other partners in the programme include the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Curriculum Development, Assessment and Certification Council and International Labor Organisation. Chelugui said the government came up with the RPL programme to empower and upscale job skills for more youths. He said according to an economic survey conducted last year, the Kenyan economy created 926,000 jobs, out of which the informal sector accounted for 81 per cent. He said majority of workers in the informal sector had low skills while others lacked certificates. Chelegui said the implementation of the RPL by Nita was set to address the skills challenges in the labour market and improve the utilisation of human capital. "RPL aims at valuing and giving visibility to learning outcomes of workers' professional experience, turning them into recognised qualifications to give employees a path to better jobs," he said. The CS said RPL is designed to open up new opportunities for artisans to access decent employment opportunities. The event was hosted by Base Titanium because they contributed a big number of workers assessed. According to Chelegui, Base Titanium was able to identify the unskilled youth, employ and train them before Nita came to evaluate and award certificates. He underscored the need for other corporates to adopt the RPL policy since it is intended to improve employability, mobility and promote lifelong learning. "Recognition of prior learning does improve worker's confidence, self-esteem and morale to learn," he said. Chelegui urged the youth who never had an opportunity to study to embrace the RPL programme. He said the Kenyan economy is in demand of high-skilled labour. Principal Secretary for Vocational and Technical Training Margaret Mwakima said the Ministry of Education is working with implementing agencies to successfully roll out the RPL programme. She said the government has strengthened the capacity of learning institutions and provided the necessary manpower to implement RPL. "The education ministry has established constant consultation and collaborations with international organisations to have a strong and vibrant RPL," she said. Base Titanium operations manager Denham Vickers said they adopted the RPL policy because of a lack of skills among residents. He said since the mining industry in Kenya is not yet fully developed, the company experienced a huge shortage of skilled labour. "We invested a huge amount on training because the skills level in this area were very low and we are really happy to get involved with the RPL programme," he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)