Three-time Kisii County boys’ basketball champions Nyanchwa Boys have vowed to go for the fourth consecutive title. Nyanchwa Boys overcame hosts Kisii School 54-36 to lift the Kisii Central sub-county title on Thursday and coach Kepher Mogire was buoyant that his boys will retain the county title. “The environment was a bit intimidating but my boys did not succumb to the intimidation. Kisii School was equally a good tea and gave a good account of themselves,” said Mogire. He added: “Now that we have conquered Kisii County three times, it’s time to turn our focus to the Nyanza region.” Kisii School head coach Gilbert Okumu said he will work on his defence ahead of the county games scheduled for next week. “We did not have enough time to prepare for this championship. However, I’m proud of my boys. Despite the loss, they gave their all,” said Okumu. Kereri Girls emerged overall winners in the girl's category after beating Nyanchwa Girls 49-17 in the first game before thrashing a hapless Senior Chief Musa Nyandusi Secondary 74-0. Kisii School, enjoying the support of their principal Fred Mogaka clinched the boys’ volleyball title after seeing off Nyanchwa Boys 3-0 (25-15, 25-11, 25-14). In the semis, Kisii School beat Gianchere 3-0 while Nyanchwa eliminated Amasago 3-0. In the girl’s category, Kereri Girls reigned supreme after thumping Otamba 3-0 (25-10, 25-17, 25-15). In the semis, Kereri defeated Riondong’a 3-0 while Otamba beat Nyamemiso 3-1. The boys' soccer final between Kisii School and Friends School Gianchere will be replayed on Sunday. The game was postponed due to darkness. By the time of postponement, the teams had already scored three penalties each during the penalty shootout. Kisii School walloped Matunwa in the first semi-final while Gianchere walloped Irungu 5-1. In the girls' final, Nyamecheo upset fancied Kereri Girls 1-0. In the semi-finals, Kereri defeated Birongo 1-0 while Nyamecheo saw off Riondong’a 2-1. Both handball finals will be played on Sunday at Kisii School. In the boys’ category, Nyamagwa will play the winner between Kisii School and Senior Chief Musa Nyandusi Secondary School Kegati while in the girls' category, will see Irungu face the winner between Kereri Girls and Senior Chief Musa Nyandusi. The Kisii County games will be held at Kisii School and Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho from August 4 to 7. Cardinal Otunga will host soccer, volleyball, netball, and tennis while Kisii School will host Rugby 7’s, handball, hockey, basketball, badminton and table tennis.