Despite recording maximum points in four matches in the Women's Hockey Premier League thus far, Strathmore Scorpions remain far off their rivals who boast of experience, coach Meshack Senge pointed out. Scorpions lead the women's cadre with 12 points -five better than both United States International University USIU-A Spartans and record champions Blazers both with seven points. Spartans have, however, played a game less. Senge, who also doubles up as Gladiators (men's team) coach, said it's premature and pointless to look at the standings at this point when the women's league is not even halfway. "So far, so good but we can't get carried away because we have played just four matches. The team is largely inexperienced with most players playing for the first time in the top tier. Our rivals Blazers and to some extent Spartans have accomplished players who are masters of the trade. "The same applies to the  Gladiators' team. Kenya Police team has players with more than 15 years of experience and it's hard to play against them especially when you are new in the league." "We have to accept the fact that we are in transition and that takes time and calls for patience." The women's league has been on a break since May to allow the national women's team to prepare for the Commonwealth Games slated for  July 29th to August 7 in Birmingham, England. Scorpions have four players in the final 18-member Kenyan playing contingent for the Club Games. Senge said the quartet will get the much-needed exposure but doesn't benefit Scorpions because they aren't even half of the team. "You are as strong as your weakest link," Senge, the former decade-long-serving national men's coach stated. "It will be a good exhibition for them and will enhance their confidence levels but hockey is a team sport." With the league penciled to return after the August 9 general elections, Senge highlighted the need to work on the physical, mental, technical and tactical facets of their game. "The break seems to be too long but that doesn't afford us room to relax. Our strength lies within our structures. We will continue regularly doing analysis on our game as well as our opponents."