Diary, The dating world has really taken me through the hoops. Back in college, in the land of George Washington, I shared an anatomy class with a shy Goth girl called Blaise. Even in her dark makeup and baggy jeans, she was pretty as heck. Being new to the white man’s land, I didn’t know how to approach her. So I went the primary school route and wrote her a note: Will you have coffee with me? Yes__ No__ Amused, she ticked yes. Long story short, a week later, we were going steady (that’s what they call dating exclusively in the land of white rain). Three months later, the semester was over. She invited me to visit her at home that Saturday. She lived with her mother on a farm, and their house was surrounded by woods (a small forest). Her mother was warm and welcoming and I was treated like a king. That evening, though Blaise was going to work, she asked me to spend the night. “I can’t,” I said. “Why?” “We have this custom in Africa where it’s not right for a man to spend a night at his in-law’s.” “You’re in America now. It doesn’t matter.” But it did matter to me. So I bid her goodbye and asked her to come over to my place on Sunday. “Wait,” she said. “I wanna show you something.” She led me to the woods and pointed up one tree. “Do you see him up there?” “Who? it’s just leaves and branches.” “There’s a man sitting on one of the branches. Can’t you see him?” Beads of sweat broke out on my forehead. “Nope.” “He’s there. He’s my demon.” “Your what?” “He takes care of me. When I was in high school, this one girl used to bully me. I gave blood to my demon and set him on her. To this day, her face is covered in ugly pimples with leaking sores.” As fast as I drove out of there, I don’t even remember saying goodbye. Two miles from her place, a deer stood in the middle of the road. I swerved to avoid it and crashed into some underbrush by the road. I had no choice but to have my car towed and I spent the night at Blaise’s home. Next morning, she came home before her mother and I woke up. “Have you spoken to your mother?” I asked. “Nope.” “Aren’t you wondering how come I slept over?” She smiled. “I sent the deer.”