Mandera Governor Ali Roba has promised to deliver 100 per cent of votes to Azimio La Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga. The UDM leader said Raila is better placed to tackle the challenges bedevilling the region and urged the electorate to turn up in numbers and vote for him. He spoke on Wednesday during campaigns in Libahia, Odha and Arabia in Mandera. Roba whose party is one of the 16 that form the Azimio coalition has moved to stamp his authority in a county with 217,030 votes, according to IEBC. “UDM is on a mission to deliver 100 per cent of votes to Raila and Karua. As a region we have the conviction that they are better placed to address the challenges bedevilling the country," he said. Roba said among the issues captured in the Azimio manifesto is the fixing of the education sector, which has faced a myriad of challenges due to insecurity. “Raila has promised to push for a Special Affirmative Action Programme in admitting students from ASALs into teacher training institutions and universities. "This will create a local and committed workforce to serve as teachers and education officers in the region,” he said. Roba who is finishing his two terms as governor, will be contesting for the Senate seat through his UDM party. He is however backing outgoing assembly speaker Adan Khalif of UDA for governor. The county boss said having laid the foundation for success, he trusts Khalif to take over the mantle of leadership and complete pending projects. “After 10 years of devolution, the people of Mandera are happy with the transformation in all sectors. We have revolutionised a previously marginalised county into a modern, vibrant and secure town,” he said. The governor who also held rallies in Bur Abor, Bula Haji, Bella, Khalalio, Qumbiso and Aresa campaigned for the UDM lineup. He said the final hunt for votes is meant to ensure all potential voters turn up and vote on the D-day. Roba further urged the security apparatus to remain vigilant and act firmly on individuals who will be out to cause violence. He said nobody will be allowed to cause mayhem in the county. “As we enter the homestretch of our campaigns let us all remain civil and ask for votes with decorum. Let us ask for votes politely and let the voters decide,” the governor said. He said whereas most candidates in Mandera are carrying out their campaigns with respect and decorum, a few individuals have taken the trajectory of inciting the masses to violence. “If you don’t support a candidate avoid their rallies. If you do attend, you must listen calmly even if the opponent is saying something you do not wish to hear. Remember campaigns will come and go but we will remain together as brothers and sisters,” Roba said. The governor said he is proud of his achievements over the past 10 years and he leaves the county in good state. “Mandera today is a shining example of the success of devolution. For the first time since independence, residents have tarmacked roads,” he said. Roba said referral hospitals, technical training college, regional livestock market, slaughterhouses and abattoirs are among the completed projects. Others are the rehabilitation centre, the land and HR registries, county headquarters and the governors and his deputy residences. The governor said his administration had also managed to significantly invest in health and reduced the high maternal mortality rate. He further said at the advent of devolution in 2013, Mandera had 69 boreholes and 88 earth pans but his administration managed to increase them to 306 boreholes and 257 earth pans. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)