The Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya campaign tour in Taita Taveta County was on Tuesday marred by an exchange of words between former Taita Taveta senator Dan Mwazo and Governor Granton Samboja. The duo is vying for the Taita Taveta gubernatorial seat on Wiper and Jubilee Party respectively; under the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya umbrella. The rally which was led by the coalition’s flag bearer Raila Odinga, his running mate Martha Karua and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka was nearly reduced to a supremacy battle between the two county political bigwigs. Trouble started when Mwazo fired the first salvo by accusing the incumbent of corrupt dealings that had left the county hospitals without medicine. “Now that Raila is standing to fight corruption, let us support him and myself so that we can deal with these people who have mismanaged resources at the county,” Mwazo said shortly after he was invited to the podium by Suna East MP Junet Mohammed to address a rally at Wasinyi, Wundanyi constituency. He went on to woo supporters to help him clinch the seat in the coming elections so as to restore sanity in the county. He also asked the former Prime Minister to shun any push for zoning and instead offer a neutral ground for all candidates to compete. However, Samboja did not take it lightly and when his time came to address the rally, he went on to respond to Mwazo, accusing him of insincerity and spreading hate. He further accused the former Voi MP of incompetence that saw him fired as the Kenya Ferry Services Limited chairman in October 2019. “Somebody failed in a simple job of managing the ferry. He is now carrying out a smear campaign against me,” defiant Samboja said, pointing out he is ready to take on those who are inciting residents against him. Mwazo was dismissed by President Uhuru Kenyatta from the Kenya Ferry's position following an incident where 35-year-old Mariam Kighenda and her 4-year-old daughter, Amanda Mutheu, died at the Likoni channel after their vehicle slid off MV Harambee ferry and plunged into the Indian Ocean. The governor went on to accuse Mwazo of being part of the perennial wildlife conflict in the county. He said the former legislator participated in relocating tens of elephants from Laikipia conservancies to Tsavo when he was Tourism Cabinet Minister. “You cannot solve a problem that you started. Give us a break because we still have another five years to lead this great county,” Samboja added. It took the intervention of Junet who cut short the governor to avoid the war of words from escalating. Mombasa governor Hassan Joho asked candidates within the coalition to stop the ongoing sibling rivalry, warning that they should not use Raila’s rally to display their rivalry. “Do not use Raila’s rally to show us how powerful you are, you shall fight when we are gone,” he warned. Kalonzo Musyoka who is Mwazo’s party leader told the candidates to exercise-friendly fire lest they give their opponents a blank cheque to power. He said all candidates should capitalize on campaigning for Raila’s presidency. Raila however downplayed the supremacy battle between the two candidates and did not mention anything about the purported zoning.