The Jubilee-Isiolo team is now banking on good networks with the national government to develop the country. Led by Isiolo governor candidate Abdi Hassan Guyo, the leaders urged residents to vote for the team that can bring change to the county. Guyo spoke in Oldonyiro on Saturday where together with Isiolo Senator Fatuma Adan Dullo and Jubilee’s Woman Representative candidate Mumina Bonaya, held a two-day tour in the region. Dullo criticised opponents who are deceiving people and taking credit for projects they didn’t initiate. “We had agreed to have electricity by last month but there is an issue with the transformer but it will be fixed before elections,” she said. Dullo who is seeking to defend her seat drummed support for Guyo and urged Oldonyiro residents to vote for him. Bonaya said the Jubilee government will address their plights and work as a team towards bringing development. Guyo cautioned Oldonyiro residents against being lured into tribal politics. He pledged to unite all Isiolo communities if elected and apply inclusivity in his administration. “Tribalism which has affected Isiolo and hindered development will never be part of our region when I take office,” Guyo said. Guyo who is also the Nairobi assembly Majority leader warned his opponents against spreading tribalism and advised them to sell their manifesto instead. He said if elected, he will complete all stalled projects. Guyo said he will upgrade Oldonyiro Hospital to Level 3 and the NHIF cover will be free for the elderly and women To enhance security, Guyo pledged to instal street lights which will drive businesses to operate until late hours. He called upon youths who stole a Kenya Wildlife Service gun to return it before the police start a crackdown. Addressing the Samburu community, Guyo urged them to consider educating the girl-child and the bursary will be increased to Sh50 million. “When you educate a girl, you educate the community,” he said. The Matopeni MCA pledged to absorb 300 youths from Oldonyrio to work under the county government. Guyo pledged to bring infrastructural development to Isiolo. “If you give me a chance, I will work with these leaders to ensure that tarmacked roads are built including the Isionlo-Olsinyiro road,” he said. The battle to succeed Governor Mohamed Kuti has drawn candidates from different parties with Jubilee’s Guyo and former governor Godana Doyo (Independent) as the two main candidates. Others are Kenneth Turibo Maore (PNU), Kimaita Machuguma (Safina), Hussein Tene (UDA) and former Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chief executive Halakhe Waqo (ODM).  Edited by Kiilu Damaris