A herder was shot and 40 cows stolen by a gang of rustlers in El Qarsa, Marsabit county. Police and residents said the gang was armed with rifles during the Wednesday afternoon incident. They said Halkhe Duba, 42 was injured in the chest and leg but is in stable condition at a local hospital. Eastern police boss Rono Bunei said they are looking for the gang with an aim of recovering the animals and ensuring justice for the attack. More personnel have been deployed to pursue the attackers who are taking advantage of an ongoing disarmament operation. A dusk to dawn curfew is in place to enable officials to conduct the operation. The curfew that started on May 2 has been extended twice to enable multi-agency teams to rid civilians of illegal guns fanning violence. In a gazette notice dated June 30, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said given the threats posed to security and public order by disturbances in the area, it was prudent to extend the curfew. He said the disarmament exercise will continue until at least 5,000 guns in illegal hands are retrieved. In June, Matiang’i said although the multi-agency team deployed in May had restored peace, the mopping of illegal weapons must be concluded as a long-term security strategy. He said more than 200 guns, 3,000 ammunitions, a grenade and assorted bayonets have been recovered under Operation Rejesha Amani Marsabit. The officers are drawn from specialised units including the General Service Unit, Anti Stock Theft Unit and Rapid Deployment Unit. Matiang’i hailed the deployment of the security team saying it had succeeded in stopping ethnic conflicts in the county. “Since the deployment of this team, we’ve not had a single security incident in Marsabit. Life has gone back to normal and residents are now able to go on with their businesses,” the CS said. Meanwhile, a four-year-old boy was killed in a fire incident in a grass thatched house in Kakuma, Turkana county. Emeto Ebenyo was preparing lunch with his elder brother when the fire broke out on Wednesday afternoon. Police said the elder brother escaped with injuries. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)