South Africa’s soul-destroying economic havoc, rendering power cuts, euphemistically known as load shedding, are making a cold winter even more miserable for everyone, but especially this equatorial human. To make things worse, despite the fact that there is hardly any power at the most awkward time of the day, a national increase in electricity tariffs kicked in on July 1. The power rationing comes at such odd times as from 4.30am to 6am, and then again from 10am to noon, and from 4.30 to 6pm or, on the worst days, from 6pm to 8.30 or 9pm. So people are paying 9.6 per cent more for electricity that they are not really enjoying. Meanwhile, just as I began writing this, Eskom, the country’s electricity public utility, announced: “Due to the loss of five large generation units over the past 36 hours, as well as the delay in returning five units to service, load shedding will regrettably be increased to Stage 3.” They added that between 4pm and midnight, load shedding will be implemented at Stage 4, and then reduced to Stage 2 until 5am on Monday. They also said they would communicate and implement any changes as may be necessary. Stage 3 means, for instance, that power will be cut from 1am to 3.30am, and from 5pm to 7.30pm. Stage 4 means power cuts from 1am to 3.30am and again from 9am to 11.30am and again from 5pm to 7.30pm. In a country where most people use electricity to cook, imagine trying to feed a family. It would be bad enough if it was just the power cuts, but like everywhere else on the planet, the price of petrol has skyrocketed and shows no signs of coming down. The price of a litre of petrol is at the never-before-experienced price of R26.74 (or Sh186.96). As an economic analyst put it a couple of months ago: “Petrol was more than 27 per cent more expensive than it was in May 2021, when the average price of a litre of diesel was R16.20 (Sh113.27), meaning it cost R729 (Sh5,097.03) to fill a 45-litre tank.” Today, just 14 months later, with the average price at R26.74 per litre, filling the same tank will cost R1,203.30 (Sh8,413.25). As you know from your own situation, dear reader, when fuel goes up, everything else follows. In short, the current situation is an economic disaster for cash-strapped workers, who are forced to match their disposable income with growing inflation rates and to survive on the little they have left. The reality is people need to commute to work, transport their children to school and run other errands, whether via public transport or in their own cars. And this is getting harder to do every day. Trains remain the cheapest form of public transport — when they work. Unfortunately, while load shedding is on, the trains are off and even when there are no power cuts, cable thieves cause constant interruptions. It has gotten so bad that even though the lifting of all Covid-19 restrictions was seen as the last push to encourage people back to normality, including getting back to working at the office full time, the cost of transport is making it look like for many people, the work-from-home arrangement might continue for the foreseeable future. But then, of course, those who stay home will have to factor in load shedding, and as the schedules vary for different parts of the city, and the country for that matter, you can imagine how chaotic it is getting everyone on the same page at the same time, literally. Nobody is joking much anymore about the power situation. In fact, the National Assembly Speaker has written to the Leader of Government Business and Deputy President David Mabuza, requesting that Parliament be kept abreast of Executive interventions to deal with the energy crisis.