Presidential aspirant Reuben Kigame has protested the arrival of the first batch of ballot papers, saying the electoral commission was disobeying court orders. In a statement released on Thursday, head of media, Laura Chebet said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is fighting to ensure Kigame is out of the August race despite having an active court case on his eligibility to vie in August polls. "The fact that our case is in court, IEBC should have slowed the printing process instead of quickly settling our matter and disobeying court orders," said Chebet. She said that IEBC has delayed the court case and faulted Kigame for being responsible for the election crisis that the commission itself created. "We are concerned about justice, inclusion, and fair representation of our qualified candidate," she said. Kigame accused the commission of clearing other aspirants with questionable qualifications, including degree certificates, and leaving him in the cold. High Court had handed him a lifeline it ruled Kigame was eligible to contest. In the judgment delivered Monday by Justice Athony Mrima, the court said Kigame demonstrated exemplary effort in complying with the IEBC requirements. "He shall therefore not be disqualified on account of an insufficient number of signatures of his supporters,” Mrima said. But IEBC appealed the ruling at the Court of Appeal, arguing that the High Court ruling is time-barred as the commission operates within strict guidelines. In a statement, Chebukati said the range of steps and processes required to give effect to the judgment may severely jeopardise holding the presidential election on August 9. "We had no difficulty in finding that the appeal is arguable, particularly on whether the learned judge can on judicial edict amend the Constitution. We also considered the financial implication and if the election were to be postponed, the effect to the country. The Application is for allowing,” said Justice Wanjiru Karanja who read the ruling on behalf of the bench. But Chebet has insisted that they have no faith in IEBC on conducting transparent and fair elections after they denied Kigame a chance to exercise his democratic right. The party has threatened to go to Supreme Court, the East African Court of Justice, and the United Nations tribunals for Kigame to be on the ballot in August polls. The statement said the act is unjust to persons living with a disability. The first batch of the 2022 presidential ballot papers arrived in the country on Wednesday. The consignment contains presidential ballot papers for 18 counties: Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu, Taita Taveta, Garissa and Wajir. The others are for Marsabit, Isiolo, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kitui, Machakos, Makueni, Nyandarua and Nyeri. In each pallet, there are about 54 boxes for a constituency and it represents one elective post. The IEBC said only 22,120,458 ballot papers will be shipped into the country, being the exact number of the country's registered voters.