The Migori governor race has shaped into a three-horse race between Senator Ochillo Ayacko, former legislators John Pesa and Dalmas Otieno. The candidates have now moved to door-to-door campaigns to solidify votes ahead of next month's general election. Governor Okoth Obado is set to head home after finishing his second term and nine candidates are jostling to succeed him. The candidates have moved away from road shows and rallies and embarked on door-to-door meetings and town hall debates. On Wednesday and Thursday, Ayacko and Pesa concentrated on in-door meetings with the electorate. Pesa pitched tent in Rongo and Awendo constituencies, which are Otieno's stronghold, while Ayacko campaigned in Karungu, Suna and Kadem clans in Nyatike, where Pesa hails from. “We have these town hall meeting campaigns to ensure we have an inclusive administration," Ayacko said. "This ensures voters feel our agenda and give us feedback on what they expect from us." Otieno has been meeting professionals in Rongo and across the county. Nick Oluoch, a communication lecturer at Kisii University and a political analyst said the meetings are sometimes family-based. "They can be broken down into affairs of prominent families where elders and clan opinion shapers meet under trees to strategise,” Oluoch said. Oluoch said the last four opinion polls released by pollsters have placed Ayacko and Pesa ahead of Otieno, which shows the race will be decided by which candidates manage to secure their vote blocs. Ayacko has led in three opinion polls. Mizani Africa on June 20, released a poll that placed Ayacko as the most popular governor candidate in Migori with 52.5 per cent, Pesa of DAP-K followed at 31.5 per cent. Otieno of Jubilee came third with 10.4 per cent, while Philip Mwabe an independent candidate garnered 2.2 per cent. Rebecca Maroa of UDA( 1.7 per cent) and Byron Oginga (1.3 per cent). Immediate former Migori speaker Boaz Okoth closed the list at 0.2 per cent which is the same as undecided voters. The same pollster on May 30 placed Ayacko ahead with 48.8 per cent, Pesa(27.4 per cent) and Otieno (16.5 per cent).