There is more confusion at City Hall following the summoning of two top finance officials over claims of abuse of public funds. Those summoned were the former Chief Finance Officer Mohamed Sahal and the finance executive Allan Igambi. They were summoned to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters following complaints from City hall that they were misusing public funds. Whereas Igambi honoured the summon and appeared before the officers at the serious crime unit on July 14, 2022, Sahal is said to have failed to do so. Officials aware of the probe said they expect him to appear before the detectives on July 18. Head of serious crime unit Obadiah Kuria wrote to the County Secretary and informed him the DCI is investigating allegations of misuse of public funds. Governor Anne Kananu wrote to the Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakangó to inform her Sahal is no longer the Chief Officer of Finance and Economic Planning in reference to an earlier Executive Order that had been issued. “Henceforth do not accept any work plans or correspondence from him,” said part of the letter dated July 7 and received on July 12. Igambi had dramatically reversed the decision to change the name of the officer mandated with withdrawal rights at the Central Bank of Kenya. This was a day after Kananu reshuffled chief officers at City Hall, which saw the removal of Sahal as Finance chief officer. He was replaced by Joseph Gathiaka, who is still the head of Treasury at City hall. The change meant that withdrawal rights at CBK had to be changed from Sahal to Gathiaka, which was done by Igambi. However, in a new twist, Igambi wrote again to the CBK recalling his first letter of request of withdrawing right for Sahal. “We have today submitted withdrawal rights for Mohamed Abdi Sahal to your esteemed office. After considering  internal logistical and administrative challenges we will face with this change, we would like to recall the forms and maintain status quo,” reads the letter dated July 6 addressed to director Banking Division at CBK. “We will in the course of the day submit other forms in support of this request and do kindly in the meantime request that no changes are done,” it read further. The person given the withdrawal rights is supposed to be recognised at CBK in order for the county to receive any release of funds. With the confusion of who between Gathiaka and Sahal has withdrawal rights, it is likely that City Hall will face a financial crisis. This and Kananu’s letter dated July 14 triggered another letter from CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge who suggested for Sahal to be removed, a new CECM- finance needs to be suspended for insurbodination and acting illegally and contrary to the executive order. “To effect such a change, the publication of a Gazette Notice of the appointment of the new acting CECM-Finance is necessary and CBK requires this notice to effect the mandate changes,” read part of the letter dated July 15. Njoroge revealed some parties had moved to court over the developments and they are waiting for directions. Other sources said the drama at City Hall is linked to control of the crucial docket and payment of pending bills. “It is all about control of the docket and payment of some pending bills,” said an official who asked not to be named. Another source said complaints have been lodged with other investigative arms of the government against some of the officials and a probe file had been opened including lifestyle audit.