Deputy President William Ruto will host his final mega rally in his Eldoret home town on August 2, a week to the general election. UDA party officials have put in motion activities to plan for the rally that will bring together all leaders within the alliance, including supporters and officials of ANC, Ford Kenya and other parties in Kenya Kwanza. The rally will also be used as a prayer forum for the Kenya Kwanza team and to give Ruto the final endorsement ahead of the polls. UDA coordinator for the region, Paul Kiprop, confirmed they will hold a mega rally in the town but declined to give more details. “DP Ruto believes in God and prayers. We will host prayers for him in Eldoret just days to the polls,” Kiprop said. The rally is likely to be held at the Eldoret Sports Club field, which can accommodate more than 100,000 people. Among others involved in the planning for the rally include Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and all UDA candidates in the region. Ruto will also use the rally to drum up support for a six-piece voting pattern for UDA candidates in the region who are currently facing tough challenges, mostly from independent candidates. Mandago and UDA party leaders in the region have completed joint campaigns in Kapseret subcounty urging residents to ensure they all vote for Ruto. They said the region is "locked" for Ruto after a series of joint rallies in all six subcounties in the area. They have termed Uasin Gishu as Ruto’s political bedroom where all residents would vote for him next month. Mandago has been leading week-long joint campaigns for UDA candidates and the Kenya Kwanza team. “We have agreed to all back Ruto not because his home is here or because he is a Kalenjin but because he is a national leader with interests of the country at heart. That is why he enjoys support countrywide,” Mandago said. All UDA candidates attended the rallies that have been going on in Turbo, Kesses, Ainabkoi, Moiben and Soy subcounties. They included governor candidate Jonathan Bii, popularly known as Koti Moja, and those vying for the MP seats. Other UDA MP candidates in the region include Prof Phyllis Bartoo (Moiben), Julius Ruto (Kesses), Samwel Chepkonga (Ainabkoi), Janet Sitienei (Turbo) and David Kiplagat (Soy). Also, present was Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei. Mandago and his team campaigned for a six-piece voting pattern for UDA candidates. He urged residents to reject independent candidates. Mandago said residents stand to benefit more from the bottom-up economic model being pushed by Kenya Kwanza team. More than 200 independent candidates are vying for the various seats, including governor, senator, woman rep, MP and MCA in Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet. They include businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki, Dr Cleophas Lagat, Samson Changwony and Stanley Kiptis who are vying for governor seats in Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo respectively. MP seats where independent candidates pose a serious threat to UDA men include Nandi Hills, Kesses, Moiben, Mosop, Soy and Marakwet West. Edited by A.N