For many Kenyans, adding avocados to their meals is essential. Quite popular in the health and wellness sector, Kenyans love avocados not only because of their nutritious benefits but also for their taste and added flavour. One thing researchers have discovered is the popular fruit may be very good in preventing heart disease. In fact, according to the American Heart Association, avocados are high in healthy fats, your body needs fat to boost energy, protect organs, produce hormones, and help it with nutrient absorption. Packed with potassium and magnesium, avocados keep the blood flow and blood pressure in check by helping regulate the blood pressure, critical for heart disease prevention. In addition to that, they are packed with vitamins, fibre, and carotenoid compounds. Carotenoid compounds are beneficial antioxidants that can protect you from disease and enhance your immune system. The strong antioxidant effect protects against oxidative damage which is associated with progressing many chronic diseases like diabetes and stroke. The high fibre content is good for preventing constipation which is very common during pregnancy. Getting enough fibre in your diet is essential for a healthy digestive system because it helps promote the growth of good bacteria. An imbalance of unhealthy and healthy microbes in the intestines may contribute to weight gain, high blood sugar, high cholesterol, and other conditions. Avocados also provide nutrients that are essential for the health of the immune system, including vitamin C, B6, and E, and pairing it with eggs or berries can make a filling nutritious breakfast. "It is actually better to replace butter and margarine as spreads with avocados. In fact, if it also replaced the processed meats or cheese we put on bread, one would improve their health drastically,” David Katz, the president and founder of True Health Initiative advises. Katz says avocados are a great fertility food since they are a fantastic source of vitamin E, which studies have shown can be beneficial in improving the lining of the uterus. Potassium-rich avocados also balance excess estrogen that may be responsible for issues in the uterus, like endometriosis. There are also so many ways you can enjoy the fruit, so do not be afraid to experiment. Ways to add avocado in your diet