Director research science and technology at the ministry of education has launched nine books to be read by the public. Titus Zakayo Ingana spoke about this tough moment while launching the set of nine books at the Ministry of Education offices in Nairobi. “I wrote my first book and gave it to my friend. It got lost, I wrote the second one and it was stolen, but I never gave up,” Ingana said. Ingana who is also a cleric described his writing journey as one filled with ups and downs. But because of his resilience, he could not hide his joy when he finally launched the nine books. “Wherever I am today, it’s a journey, I did not imagine coming this far. I want to thank everyone who took part in editing the books,” he said. The books were launched by University of Eldoret vice chancellor Teresa Akenga who stood in for University Education Principal Secretary Simon Nabukwesi. Nabukwesi lauded Ingana for the effort he took in using books to change the world. He said most civil servants shun writing books as they delve into service delivery. “Writing a book can be a powerful way to get in touch with personal thoughts, values and motivations,” Nabukwesi said. The books are themed around eye-openers for strategic thinkers, policy planners, politicians, university education managers and national capacity developers. The books are titled ‘Road map on Kenyan intellectual capital causes, Overcoming dichotomy of brain drain and brain gain, Harnessing entrepreneurship and innovation at Kenyan tertiary institutions and The politicians' speech. Others are Strategy for developing Third world countries, God’s strategic plan for saving lost humankind, Mind changers of Ngoloma and Skills audit report The books are published in both English and Swahili. Nabukwesi gave his thoughts on the books saying the politicians'speech, has addressed strategic issues that fit the country. "God’s strategic plan for saving lost humankind interrogates the Bible from the book of Genesis to Revelation and presents a very simple but profound way of anchoring religious truth,” Nabukwesi said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)