Kisumu is set to host a major land and environment conference organised by the Judiciary as it celebrates the 10th anniversary of the Environment and Lands Court. The conference will be held between November 1 and 4 according to the ELC presiding judge Justice Oscar Angote who made the announcement on behalf of Chief Justice Martha Koome. Justice Angote said 2,000 participants, among them members of court users committee from the 47 counties, are expected to attend the conference. He said members of the public who are served by the 36 lands courts available in the country are also invited to attend. Angote led members of the steering committee in spearheading the preparation of the event in search for a suitable venue in the lake city on Friday. "We already have pre-conference activities going on in areas where the 36 courts are situated," he said. The activities, according to the judge, includes planting of trees, greening of rivers and open court days. "We want to engage members of the public on what the environment and land court does on a daily basis," the presiding judge said. "We don't want to just sit and wait for disputes. We want to go out there and engage the public." The conference will bring in stakeholders to have a conversation on issues on land and environment. It will also attract participants from the international community, including partners working on how to promote sustainable management of environment. Food and agriculture organisation is amongst the international partners supporting the upcoming judicial conference. Angote said there will be plenary sessions, with thematic areas which are geared towards improving the performance and functionality of the courts. The presiding judge said the Judiciary was keen to provide a platform to the public to share challenges they face with the court while the lands courts also get to highlight its achievements. "This is in line with the blueprint developed by the chief justice that stakeholders engagement is an integral part of the services we offer," Angote said. He added that the main challenge for the courts has been digitisation. "We have overcome most of the challenges like case backlogs. We now have high case turnover unlike previously," the judge said. "We have gone virtual, we are working on how to have long hand proceedings . We have 51 judges in the court currently." Speaking on behalf of Kisumu governor, the acting Land and Environment executive Salmon Orimba said cases of grabbing of public land was on the rise in the city. "The choice of Kisumu as the host of the conference is welcome news. This is because we are bogged with numerous cases where public spaces are grabbed and environmental degradation is high," he said . The land conference comes to Kisumu as the city's management battle take a parcel of land opposite Yatch club. According to the city authorities, the land whose ownership is subject of a court battle was an open land which was set aside as way leave. Part of it, according to the management of the city was meant for water works for the Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company  (edited by Amol Awuor)