Surprise Oregon22 10, 000m silver medalist Stanley Waithaka Mburu reckons it won't be long before Team Kenya break their 20-year-old jinx to bag the elusive gold in the event. Mburu, 22, who survived an early scare in the race after tumbling to the ground, quickly regained his composure to romp to the podium for Kenya's third medal in 27:27.90 with a badly bruised left knee. The sensational youngster was denied the crown by Uganda's Joshua Cheptegei who cruised to a second world 10,000m title in an impressive 27:27.43, becoming only the fourth man to win back-to-back 10,000m world titles. Cheptegei's compatriot Jacob Kiplimo bagged the bronze after coming third in 27:27.97. “For the last 20 years since 2001, we've never won gold in the 10000m at the World Championships. But today, we came close and this is a clear indication we shall soon bag gold in the event,” Mburu said. The world U20 5,000 silver medallist in 2018 disclosed how a unity of purpose forged by Team Kenya before the race delivered the country's only medal in the event. “It wasn't all that easy but our team that also comprise Daniel Mateiko and Ronald Kwemoi held on accordingly. I thank them for their support. We have been training together.” Mburu said the strategy they employed in Eugene was a departure from the norm where Kenyan runners set the pace for the rest of the pack. “We had a different plan and it worked in our favour. Usually, Kenyans are expected to dash in front and dictate the pace but this time around, we decided to change our tactical approach. “We fell back and allowed our competitors to set the pace. It gave us time to calculate our next steps.” While extolling Cheptegei for putting up a gallant fight, Mburu fired a warning shot at him, saying he was gradually closing the gap. “We have competed with Cheptegei in a series of Diamond Leagues in the past, where I struggled to keep up with his pace. But today, I came close to beating him and so I'm convinced I'm well on my way toward being a world champion. The youngster attributed his meteoric rise to a top-notch training regimen and state-of-the-art facilities back in Japan, where he sharpened his talons before his trip to Oregon. “Japan is a nice place to be. My stay there has helped me achieve quite a lot. I'd encourage budding athletes to consider coming to Japan for training. “ Some of Kenya's greatest talents have trained in Japan including my coach Daniel Njenga, Paul Tanui, Dedan Karoki and the late Sammy Wanjiru. Mburu revealed that he will not be traveling to Birmingham after all because doubling in the 10,000m is an arduous task. “The coaches opted to field a different team for the Commonwealth Games. Edward Zakayo, Kibiwott Kandie and Daniel Simiyu will be representing us in Birmingham and we wish them all the best.” He also ruled out the possibility of shifting focus to the road races shortly, saying he would focus all his efforts on the field and track events. “I have a great future on the track and field and I'm not going back to the road races any time soon until I achieve my dream which is to run a good time. Presently, my time is 13.05 in 5,000m and 27.30 in 10,000m. I’m looking to a sub-12 in 5,000m and sub-26 in 10,000m.”  