Kenya settled for two silver on the first day of the Africa Junior Judo Championships at the Moi Stadium Kasarani Indoor Arena on Saturday. Gallant Kenyan judoka Atieno Lewis bagged silver in the 90kg category after crashing to Senegalese Yacine Juma in the closely contested final. Atieno booked a berth in the final after beating Diana Kemadjou in the semi. Denis Mwangi also settled for silver after succumbing to Hady Hussein of Egypt in the finals of the 100kg. Mwangi barged past Burundian Amir Ribamba on his way to the finals. Both Atieno and Mwangi had carried the nation's hopes on their shoulders for the elusive gold. Kenya failed to secure a gold medal at the Africa Cadet Judo Championships that concluded on Friday, and the duo had hoped to break the jinx. The Africa Junior Judo Championships kicked off early Saturday with a total of 141 competitors (78 men and 63 women) drawn from 21 countries battling for honours. In other contests, Doukkali Hassan defeated Lahmouri Nouh to bag gold in the all Moroccan 73kg final. Mefo Meuli Tchouonze Manuela of Cameroon lost to Egyptian Fatma Ganem in the women's 63kg finals. Abdelaal Ali of Egypt beat Beina Bangmo of Cameroon in the 81kg final while Angolan Adriano Tchissende defeated his Senegalese counterpart Ryan Dacosta battle for gold in the 90kg final. Earlier in the day, Kenyan Felix Odhiambo found the going tough against Fernand Nkero of Gabon in the 66kg. James Wambua was felled by Jonathan Mwamba of Zambia in the second round of 60kg while his compatriot Stephen Njeru found the going tough against Youssry Sammy of Egypt in the same weight category. James Jeraini was bundled out by Kom Teddy of Cameroon in the  73 category. Another Kenyan Regan Mwandi crashed to Tchouachou Nkepya of Cameroon in the 66kg. On Friday, Egypt were crowned Africa Cadet champions after edging hard-battling Angola to the title. Angola subsequently settled for silver as South Africa and Cameroon both bagged bronze after beating Burundi and Kenya respectively.