Kwale Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani (UDA) and former KPA employee Lung'anzi Chai (PAA) have for the second time skipped the Kwale gubernatorial debate. The debate was held on Saturday by the Human Rights Agenda, Jamii Action Centre and Kenya Muslims Youth Alliance organisations at the Kenya School Of Government in Matuga. Those who attended the much-awaited debate were Hamadi Boga (ODM), former Transport minister Chirau Ali Mwakwere (Wiper), county speaker Sammy Ruwa (Independent) and Gereza Dena (Kanu). According to one of the debate organisers Mwinyihaji Chamosi, Achani and Lung'anzi confirmed they won't attend. "Right from the beginning, the two didn't show interest to participate and they said they won't be available for other unknown reasons," Chamosi said. In June only Boga and Dena, out of the six gubernatorial candidates, attended a Media Council Governors' debate conducted in the same venue. Achani,  Lung'anzi, Mwakwere and Ruwa didn't show up for the debate. They all, however, sent apologies explaining the reasons why they didn't make it to the event. Some of the participants who attended the Saturday debate were disappointed by Lung'anzi's and Achani's absence. They said the two are cowards while others termed them as disrespectful for missing two debates consecutively. "We excused them last time but not this one. It seems they had planned to skip the debates from the word go. They should lower their pride. What are they afraid of," an old man said. During the debate, political confrontations escalated between the four as they attacked one another with each questioning his opponents' manifestos. Dena, Mwakwere and Ruwa appeared like they had ganged up to break down Boga. Mwakwere, who seemed to have unsettled business with Boga, attacked first when he was questioned by a resident about why he disrespected the ODM candidate during the burial of former Kwale woman representative Zainab Chidzuga. In the burial ceremony, Mwakwere referred to Boga to as a simple government clerk and denied him the opportunity to address the public. In the debate, Mwakwere said it was rude to do politics in burial events and as a family member he was firm to ensure the leaders don't break protocols. "Many didn't know that I was related to Chidzuga's husband and you can't come all the way from Nairobi to speak irrelevant issues to the bereaved family," he said. Mwakwere also accused Boga of spearheading the propaganda that he has quit the race and instead backed the ODM aspirant, allegations that Boga denied. "I would feel great if Mwakwere supports me but I didn't say anywhere that he is out of the race. Those are blogger things and should be avoided," he said. However, Mwakwere sustained his attack on Boga that he is incapable of leading Kwale people because he is a Kilifi resident. The former Matuga MP alleged that Boga is unaware of the challenges affecting residents and has no development record to showcase. "We know that you left Kwale for Kilifi 34 years ago, married and invested there. How can you help if you are not conversant with the residents' problems?" Mwakwere said. Boga, however, responded by saying that Mwakwere also has a home in Uganda and invested inside and outside Kenya and nobody questioned him. The ODM hopeful said as businesspeople and politicians, there is no harm in investing and people should be elected based on agendas and not who they are married to or where they come from. "That question is very insignificant and I didn't expect it to come from Mwakwere because it degrades him as our senior. Let's be judged on our manifestos and I hope people will choose wisely," he said. When asked to give closing remarks, Mwakwere used the opportunity to whip Boga again by saying some of his agendas are inapplicable. The Orange party candidate decided to play cool and focused on selling his ideas. However, Dena didn't give the professor a break and questioned why his brother, Omar Boga, was nominated as the county ODM coordinator and fired the previous one, Nicolus Zani. Dena further ridiculed Boga, saying his inclusive ideas are not in place since he favours nepotism. The ODM hopeful, however, said his brother is a known politician and has a close relationship with Azimio chief Raila Odinga. He said Raila choosing Boga is a matter of party issues and his nomination has nothing to do with him because he was not consulted. "If someone failed to do their work, let them not blame me. Omar knew Raila a long time ago and none can convince Raila otherwise if he saw that Omar was best fit for the position," he said. Ruwa also questioned Boga how he would implement his universal healthcare plan since Kwale's budget is little. The ODM hopeful said with better strategies, the revenue collections can be improved and he will consider the most vulnerable people in his health programme. Boga blamed Ruwa for many shoddy projects, which he claimed, were marred by corruption and misuse of public resources when the candidate was the county speaker. Ruwa, however, defended himself that he is just a referee and all the questions should be directed to MCAs because they are responsible for oversight, legislation and representation. All the candidates pledged to improve the health system, agriculture and end perennial water shortage. They also pledged to improve the welfare of people with disability and address constant challenges affecting Kwale citizens.  (edited by Amol Awuor)