Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has promised to roll out robust police reforms in his first 100 days in office if elected. The ODM boss said the police department requires a paradigm shift to move away from the colonial mentality that was to deal with the natives. The former Prime Minister decried the continued police harassment, especially among youth and boda boda operators. “The problem is not with the police, the big problem is the training. We are going to transform the sector from police force to police service to serve all Kenyans,” Raila said. “You will count our first 100 days in office, we will initiate reforms in the police.” The Azimio flagbearer was speaking when he met boda boda operators from Nairobi county. During the meeting at Nyayo Stadium, Raila told the boda boda riders to back his presidential bid as he has the solution to the problems ailing the sector. Raila said his administration will focus on police training, salaries and housing as part of the broader scheme to reform and modernise the sector. Raila was accompanied by, among others, Azimio secretary general Junet Mohamed, Nairobi Senate candidate Edwin Sifuna, Nairobi Metropolitan Services managing director Mohamed Badi, CAS Rachael Shebesh and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. The ODM boss also promised to improve boda boda operators work environment. Raila's meeting with boda boda operators is seen as a move to consolidate support in the key constituency where his political nemesis, Deputy President William Ruto is perceived to have a huge following. National Transport and Safety Authority records indicate that there were 1,393,390 motorcycles registered in Kenya as of February 2018. However, there is no clear number of those engaging in boda boda business. Raila said the sector is an essential service provider that should be protected from unnecessary harassment by police. The operators, he said, should be treated with respect and dignity. “The people riding boda bodas provide an essential service to society and must be treated with respect. Our streets must be made user-friendly.” If Azimio wins the August 9 polls, the former PM said the operators will be supported to engage in other decent income engaging activities. “Boda boda is the starting point so you make some capital and transition to something else,” he said. The ODM boss urged operators to offer free transport to the elderly and the sick to polling stations as a way of ensuring higher voter turnout. Edited by A.N