Twenty-one people are fighting for their lives in hospitals within Kisumu county following a road accident along Kisumu Bondo Road. Two people died on the spot during the 5.45 pm accident, according to the police. Nyanza regional traffic commander Mwangi Ng'ang'a told the Star that a matatu that was heading to Kisumu from Bondo rolled after a tyre burst. "Motor vehicle, registration number KDE 541 U rolled before landing in a ditch after a tyre burst. It was being driven from Bondo towards Kisumu," he said. The evening accident occurred at Nyachido. " Two passengers were killed in the accident while several others were seriously injured," he added. The regional traffic boss said the driver of the ill-fated vehicle which belongs to Lake belt Sacco was still at large and was being sought by the police. Those who were injured were rushed to Kombewa sub-county hospital by good samaritans. According to the Kombewa sub-county hospital medical superintendent Dr Vincent Otieno, 11 passengers who were in critical conditions were referred to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital in Kisumu. "We received a total of 21 patients, eleven of whom were in critical conditions. We have referred them to Kisumu for advanced care. The other ten patients are receiving treatment for various injuries at our facility. Two people succumbed to their injuries," he said. Bondo-based advocate Felix Okech who was among those who took the injured to the hospital said the vehicle carried excess passengers. "All the victims were rushed to the hospital by good samaritans. The ambulance at the facility didn't have a driver to respond immediately," he said. Kisumu governor Anyang' Nyong'o sent his condolences to the families of those who died in the Saturday evening accident. In a statement to newsrooms, Nyong'o also wished quick recovery to those injured in the crash. The governor called on drivers and other road users to exercise caution and observe traffic rules to help stop road carnage.