UDA presidential candidate William Ruto has expressed optimism that the Kenya Kwanza coalition will clinch the August 9 presidential election. Ruto extended gratitude to the Church saying their willingness to pray for him and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua would not be in vain. “From where I stand, victory is already ours. Together with my running mate, we thank you for praying for us. We don't take it for granted that men of God from far and wide have come to pray over our candidature,” Ruto said. The Deputy President and his Kenya Kwanza presidential team attended a prayer rally organised by the Pentecostal and Evangelical Clergy of Kenya at the Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi. The DP said his administration will not tolerate practices which will demonstrate disrespect to the Church. “With men and women of other faith, we will keep our nation away from practices that do not respect our God. We will actively promote the word of God in Kenya,” he added. He further pledged to offer consistent support to the Church and ensure the registration of new churches will continue unhindered under the Kenya Kwanza government. The Church has taken a leading role in advocating for peaceful elections scheduled for next month and has been calling for reconciliation between Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The men of God called on top religious leaders in the country to initiate reconciliation efforts between the leaders to avoid a repeat of the 2007-2008 post elections violence. Uhuru and Ruto have been engaging in public outbursts which the clergy says is in bad taste. While speaking in Kitale during a consultative meeting of interdenominational religious leaders, the clergy said the current war of words could jeopardise peace in the country during this campaign season. The religious leaders observed that the heated animosity could plunge the country into chaos. Ruto promised that his government will be all-inclusive and will not leave the vulnerable behind. “My government will look out for the vulnerable, for the weak, orphans, widows and we will ensure that Kenya leaves nobody behind,’ he added After the prayers, Ruto is scheduled to hold a rally at Undugu Grounds in Lang'ata constituency.