Egypt have been crowned the Africa Junior Judo champions after edging Angola to the title at the Moi Stadium Kasarani indoor arena on Sunday. It was the second time the two nations flexed muscles at the arena. The North African nation had on Friday beaten their West African rivals to the Cadet title. Senegal and Cameroon clinched bronze medals after beating South Africa and hosts Kenya respectively. South Africa won the Best Team gong. Whereas the host nation failed to bag gold at both the Junior and Cadet events, they gave the home fans something to celebrate after clinching two silver medals on the first day of the Junior championships. Gallant Kenyan judoka Atieno Lewis bagged silver in the -90kgs category after crashing to Senegalese Yacine Juma in a closely contested final. Denis Mwangi also settled for silver after falling to Hady Hussein of Egypt in the final of the -100kgs. Both Atieno and Mwangi had carried the nation's hopes on their shoulders in the hunt for the elusive gold. The duo, however, failed to inspire their teammates to a similar feat on Sunday. The Africa Junior Judo Championships kicked off early Saturday with a total of 141 competitors (78 men and 63 women) drawn from 21 countries. On Thursday, Kenyan David Baya was the toast for the East African nation, settling for a silver medal after crashing to Egyptian Ramadan M in the -55kg individual finals. Abdulrahman Gobwe clinched bronze in the -50kg category with Martha Dama achieving a similar feat in the -52 category. Egypt topped the men's medal standings ahead of Angola and Senegal in that order with Kenya placing sixth. The Egyptian women's team similarly topped the log ahead of Mozambique, Cameroon, Angola and South Africa as Kenya, once more wrapped up in sixth spot. This is the first major event Kenya has held since the Africa Judo Union (AJU) relocated its headquarters from Antananarivo, Madagascar to Nairobi on February 22. In a letter to the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Amina Mohamed, AJU President Thierry Siteny said moving the headquarters to Nairobi would expedite the development of the sport in the continent, given Nairobi is the central place. Siteny said the move would also give AJU chairman Shadrack Maluki ample time to manage the game. The Centre will serve the East, Central and Southern Africa region.