Africa 100m champion Ferdinand Omanyala is among seven athletes who have been presented with Anoca athlete support programme scholarships in readiness for the 2024 Paris Olympics. Others are middle and long-distance athletes including Africa 1,500m champion Abel Kipsang, former African Games 5,000m champion Margaret Chelimo, former World Under 20 5,000m champion Beatrice Chebet, Charles Simotwo, Jacob Krop and Nicholas Kimeli Omanyala, Africa's fastest man was delighted with the support, saying: “I’d be lying if I say I expected this. This means Paris 2024 is just a blink away. I want to make my country proud and continue inspiring the nation. Thank you so much NOC-K for this opportunity.” He won Kenya's first African 100m sprint title in 32 years at the 2022 African Athletics Championships in Mauritius and still holds the African and national records at 9.77. He also holds the seventh in the world after setting a world lead on home ground at 9.85. Kipsang, who has been the in-form athlete in the three and half laps race this year said his preparations for the Olympics start now. "My preparations towards Paris 2024 start as early as now. The 1,500m is quite competitive so I intend to use this scholarship to better my performance,” said Kipsang. Kipsang has had a stellar year. He won a bronze medal at the 2022 Belgrade World Indoor Championship, setting a personal best of 3:33.36 before winning the Africa title in Mauritius. He won the opening and second legs of the Diamond League in Doha and  Birmingham respectively. His win in Birmingham came at the Alexander Stadium — the venue of the 2022 Commonwealth Games. Chelimo has been a force to reckon with in the 12-and-a-half laps race for close to a decade where she has bagged a series of titles, including the African Games gold medal (2015) and silver medals in Africa Championships (2016), Commonwealth Games (2018) and World Championships (2019). Jacob Krop, fifth on the 5,000m world rankings, will also look to make the programme count by finally landing at the Olympics after missing out on Tokyo due to his school commitments. “It was quite unfortunate to miss the Tokyo Olympics but receiving this scholarship has proven to me that second chances in life are even sweeter. I’m so happy and I thank NOC-K for providing this opportunity and making my belief in an Olympic medal get closer,” said Krop. 2018 World U-20 5,000m and 2019 World Cross Country gold medalist Beatrice Chebet has also received the scholarship as she prepares for Commonwealth Games and World Championships debuts. The scholarship awards were presented to the athletes on Thursday at the NOC-K offices by president Paul Tergat alongside Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei. The athletes were nominated by their respective federations and presented by NOC-K to ANOCA for vetting by their International Federations (IF) based on their past performances at major events and Olympic Games. Tergat said out of a pool of 101 athletes, only the seven got the nod. “The scholarship goes a long way to entrench our often-repeated objective of having the athlete at the centre of all we do. It also deepens our partnership and collaboration with Athletics Kenyan,” said Tergat.