The Kakamega High School ‘Green Commandos’ have produced an amazing glut of talent over the past decades in Kenyan football. Most of their alumni strut to the country's top-flight competition with unmatched ease and have donned the shirts of Kenya's most celebrated clubs. Among the notable products of the institution are national team players Erick ‘Marcelo’ Ouma and Joseph ‘Crouch’ Okumu who currently feature for AIK and Gent in the Swedish and Belgian premier leagues respectively. Locally, Bandari's sensational midfielder, Whyvonne Isuza, headlines the star-studded list of the school's finest products ever. Isuza's meteoric rise in football unfolds in the dusty fields of Tononoka where he and his childhood friends would meet frequently for an exciting game of football. There, they would start a game using bags, shoes, or stones to form goal posts and use banana leaves, rags, and plastic bags to make their handmade balls. “I was born in November 1994 at the Coast General Hospital in Mombasa. For the better part of my childhood, I grew up in Mombasa, at a place called Tononoka, until I completed my primary school education,” Isuza said. “I don't have any brothers. I only have one sibling, a sister and I'm the last born,” he added. Isuza attended Kikowani Primary School in Mombasa and sat for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education in 2007. He then proceeded to Vihiga High School but left the following year to join secondary school games football giants Kakamega High School. “I can't recall exactly when I started playing football but I was still very young, probably six or seven years of age. “I do remember clearly though the first team I joined as a child was Bungle Boys, a Tononoka-based club that didn't even have a coach.” “Thereafter, I joined Tononoka Rangers, still in the neighbourhood before I linked up with Coast Boys coached by a gentleman we called Jay. I can't even remember his other names.” After years of groping in the dark in search of a stable football club, Isuza eventually found a home at Sparki Young Stars. “Sparki was a much more organized side and the coach Khamisi Kibunzi bought me my first pair of football boots. I left Sparki to join Mombasa United coach whom we used to call "Rila". I can't remember his official name.” Meanwhile, Isuza had become a darling of his schoolmates and teachers at Kikowani Primary where his football skills sent tongues wagging. However, his immense gift in the sport wasn't enough to steer the school to titles and honours given other pupils lacked the essential skills to constitute a strong team. “At Kikowani, we never went past the preliminary rounds in the inter-school games. We were never strong enough to post good results,” Isuza said. But all that changed as soon as he joined Kakamega High School which had a strong team christened the Green Commandos. “For all the years I was at Kakamega High we made it to the national finals. I started featuring for the school team in 2008. “At the initial stages of the competition, we would flex muscles with the likes of Mukumu Boys, Ingotse, St. Peter's Mumias and Mumias Muslims. We also played a lot of friendly matches against Western Stima.” Despite featuring for the Green Commandos for three consecutive years, Isuza was unfortunate to not have lifted a single title with the team. “Titles and honours with the Green Commandos? Unfortunately not. They had just won the title the previous year before I joined. We only came close each year, like Manchester City in the Champions League,” he says jokingly amid an infectious chuckle. Isuza recalls many instances where they battled tooth and nail with some of Kenya's football powerhouses that boasted the finest names in the secondary school ball games. “It wasn't easy playing Langata High in Mombasa. The team comprised the likes of Kevin "Ade" Omondi. It was a similar case against Jamhuri High who had Robinson Kamura and Ingotse who fielded the likes of Geoffrey Likono.” Isuza eventually left Kakamega High in 2011 when he sat his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE). Upon completing school, Isuza immersed himself fully in inter-club competitions and his first stop was at the defunct Thika United — an erstwhile Kenyan Premier League side demoted in 2017. “After school, I signed for Thika United but never played any league game. I warmed the bench most of the time. I only featured for the club in friendly matches and once during a cup match in Naivasha. That was around 2012.” How did he end up at Thika United? “I was spotted while turning out for the Green Commandos at the inaugural KPL U19/U20 tournament. However, I still had to go for trials.” Isuza was unhappy being denied game time at Thika United. Feeling frustrated, he bolted to the National Super League side, Nairobi Stima, before the end of the season. “At Nairobi Stima, I was signed directly by head coach Collins Omondi. I was sick and tired of being reduced to an unused substitute throughout my stay at Thika United.” After two fruitful seasons with the power men in the country's top tier, Isuza sought greener pastures at Mathare United under seasoned gaffer Stanley Okumbi. A thirst to scale greater heights and brush shoulders with the big boys on the top-flight stage took him to AFC Leopards after coach Stewart Hall offered him an opportunity at the Den. It was during his stint with Ingwe that Isuza finally won his first major silverware when they clinched the GOtv Shield Cup in 2017. Leopards fended off a stiff challenge to edge arch-rivals Gor Mahia 1-0 at Nyayo Stadium, effectively securing a berth to represent the country in the Caf Confederations Cup that year. On April 4, 2019, Isuza netted one of the fastest Kenyan Premier League goals just 36 seconds after kickoff to set AFC Leopards on their way to a 2-0 win over Chemelil Sugar at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. The attacking midfielder finished off an impressive 17-pass move, scoring with his weaker foot after being picked out by Eugene Mukangula. The goal was the fastest scored in the season. Isuza's resplendent form in 2017 earned him a maiden call-up to the national team, Harambee Stars. He got an opportunity to don the national colours during the 2017 Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) tournament held in Kenya. “I featured for the national team in every single match of the tournament except against Tanzania where I was introduced later in the game.” Kenya opened the fixtures with a two-all draw against Zanzibar and beat Burundi 1-0 before pipping Tanzania by the same margin. They then needed post-match penalties to win 3-2 and clinch the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup after the match ended in a two-all draw in regulation time. Keeper Patrick Matasi was the toast of the day, blocking three penalties to hand his team the victory. It took just five minutes for Kenya to break the deadlock. Whyvone Isuza was charging towards the goal when Abdulaziz Makame fouled him to earn Kenya a free kick about twenty-seven yards out. Kariobangi Sharks youngster Ovella Ochieng gladly stepped up to curl the ball leaving Mohammed Abraham beaten in goal. Isuza plied trade for Leopards for two seasons until 2020 when he decided to return to Mombasa to sign a deal with 2019 FKF Shield Cup champions, Bandari FC. His splendid maiden appearance for the side heralded a new season that could unravel more pleasant surprises. Isuza exhibited exceptional quality and class, netting a brace to fire the coastal side to an emphatic 3-0 win over rivals Mathare United in their season opener at Mbaraki Sports Club. Isuza said he found it easy to blend into the side, having previously worked with Bandari head coach Andre Casa Mbungo during their days at AFC Leopards. “We have worked with Casa before and I know what he expects from me that’s why it was easy for me to adopt,” he said. The former Kenyan international sought to dispel widespread reports suggesting he bolted out of Wazito after an acrimonious pay dispute. "I had a good relationship with Wazito and therefore it's not true that I bolted out of the side in protest. My decision to join Bandari was partly inspired by the desire to play outside Nairobi. I yearned for a new challenge away from my comfort zone," said Isuza. "Before joining Bandari, I sat down with the management who made their expectations clear. I'm here to fire Bandari to major titles this season. We have a good squad that can effectively charge for the title," said Isuza. Isuza said he draws immense inspiration from Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro, the award-winning and highly rated Portugal skipper and Manchester United forward. “I have a few role models in football but I'll go with Ronaldo for now. Locally, I'm inspired by Gor Mahia's defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo, and my teammate Brian Otieno who plays in the defence,” Isuza said. “My most memorable moment in football was winning the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in 2017. Few achieve that kind of feat,” Isuza said. “My worst experience in football is the Achilles tendon injury that kept me out of action for the better part of the just concluded season. “I can't say exactly when I sustained the injury because it's something that developed gradually over a few games before it eventually weighed me down.” “I started noticing something unusual with my leg during our match against Sofapaka. The problem recurred in our league encounter against Kariobangi Sharks and got worse when we came up against Kenya Police,” Isuza said. “Of course, I dream of playing abroad someday but it's not something that I have to prioritize so much. I'd prefer featuring by a side coached by Pep Guardiola because I admire how his teams play.” "When I'm not playing football, I read, watch a movie, or simply spend my hours sleeping.” Despite his impressive credentials thus far, Isuza remains humble and even turns down a request to share a word of advice with budding footballers. “For some reason, I try to avoid giving advice. I just don't think I'm in any position to advise at the moment given I still have a lot to learn.” His path has not been entirely plain sailing given the raging tides and storms he has had to grapple with on his way to stardom. “I almost gave up playing football because of the financial woes that bedeviling most of the Kenyan clubs.” He had to hammer away to convince his cynic parents that pursuing football was, indeed, worthwhile. “My parents were initially not very positive about my decision to pursue football. They thought it was taking much of my time at the expense of my education,” Isuza said.