Isiolo gubernatorial candidate Abdi Hassan Guyo on Saturday received a major boost, after PNU’s Kenneth Turibu Maore dropped his bid to support him The decision was arrived at after Agriculture Cabinet secretary Peter Munya brokered a deal between the two. The Star has also established that the deal was initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Azimio La Umoja Coalition presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Before holding a mega rally at Isiolo CBD on Saturday, Jubilee and PNU parties officially signed a Memorandum of Understanding that is meant to rekindle the Sakuye -Meru alliance . If elected to succeed Governor Kuti, The Ameru community will be allocated two county executive slots and three chief officer posts while the Garre community will get one cabinet slot in Guyo’s cabinet. Munya announced that Turibu will be given a Chief Administrative Secretary position in Raila’s government. “We have done a research and established that if we do not organise ourselves (as Azimio) we could lose to the former Governor who has joined Deputy President William Ruto’s camp,” Munya said. He added that the agreement will be deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties to ensure strict compliance. After the meeting they all proceeded to Isiolo town for a major rally where it was song and dance as hundreds of Azimio supporters assembled. While drumming support for Guyo, Turibo popularly known as KT assured him that he will deliver a full block of Meru voters come August 9. He explained that in the spirit of handshake, he agreed to drop his gubernatorial bid to increase the chances of one of the Azimio candidates to clinch the county top seat in the coming elections. “We realised that all of us (in Azimio) proceeding to the ballot would limit our chances. I have accepted the proposal and ask my supporters to rally behind Guyo,” Turibo said. On his part, Guyo assured the residents of equality and inclusivity. “Under my leadership, every community will be effectively and efficiently be represented. No community will be superior than the other,” he said. Guyo also promised to deliver proper public service delivery to the residence of Isiolo County. Together with CS Munya and Senator Fatuma Dullo, Guyo drummed up support for Raila Odinga saying he was the most suitable to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta. “If we vote for Raila, we will allow CS Munya to continue serving Kenyans. As Azimio leaders in Isiolo we commit to hold peaceful campaigns that will unite all Isiolo residents regardless of tribe and ensure leadership for all,” Dullo stated. In his Gubernatorial campaigns, Guyo has teamed up with former Education CAS and woman MP aspirant Mumina Bonaya, Isiolo North MP Joseph Samal and Senator Fatuma Dullo. While choosing running mates Guyo went after the 11,000 Turkana votes by picking Dr James Lowasa. The 41-year-old city politician has so far received the support of the incumbent Kuti who endorsed him in April and the Jubilee Party. "My leadership will right the wrongs and provide the mature leadership our county is in dire need of. My administration will ensure title deeds are issued within the first year in office," Guyo said. Last week, United Democratic Alliance governor aspirant for Isiolo, Hussein Tene dropped his bid to support former Governor Godana Doyo.