President Kenyatta on Friday will preside over his last Trooping of Colour ceremony by the military. The event will take place at the newly built Ulinzi Sports Complex in Lang'ata. Domestic flights from Wilson Airport have been reschedule for the ceremony. The airspace will be closed from 10am to 4pm. The presidential colour is the greatest honour bestowed upon a military unit in recognition of exceptional service to the nation during peace and war time, while regimental colour is a flag bearing the symbols associated with the unit which is carried as a mark of identification. The event is significant for every unit in the Kenyan military and it is recorded in the unit's history. The 21 Battalion the Kenya Rifles is an infantry unit of the 6th infantry brigade. The unit was formed in March 2016. In April 2018, a few officers and service members converged at Embakasi. And in September 2018, one officer and 29 service members relocated to School of Infantry and moved to Laikipia KDF range and started to consolidate its personnel. Later in Sept 2019, the unit relocated to Mariakani Chinese Camp. In February 2021, the unit relocated back to Laikipia KDF range and is still there. While at Nanyuki, the unit has continued to consolidate up its forces, bond, train and prepare for operations and other routine tasks. The unit's distinctive colour is olive green. According to military tradition, the whole ceremony is one of the symbolic trust given to a unit or base. Officials say the colours represent the spirit of the regime. According to officials, losing the colours leads to the disbandment of the regiment or unit. All infantry units and bases are presented with both presidential and regimental colours. Normally a presidential colour is trooped when a unit or base performs in a national ceremony or when the commander-in-chief or a foreign head of state is honoured with a guard of honour. Both presidential and regimental colours are carried by a commissioned officer and escorted by two armed senior non-commissioned officers. The regimental colour is also presented to a unit or base at the same time with the presidential colour, and it is displayed whenever the unit or base performs a ceremony for general officers who are accorded half guard parades during visits. When a unit or base is designated to troop its colour, it becomes an honour to the regiment or base as it is able to showcase its colours in a ceremony known as “Trooping of the Colour.” The presidential colour is also trooped on special days such as Jamhuri Day. “Since both colours stand for the honour accorded to the unit or base, they are handled with utmost respect and are saluted as a sign of respect whenever one gets into close proximity to them," the KDF said. "It is for this reason that people are asked to stand and those in the disciplined/uniformed services expected to salute whenever the colours pass by.” The practice of the Trooping of the Colour originated in an old guard mounting ceremony during which the queen's colour was displayed as a symbol of the sovereignty of the state, while the regimental colour was the emblem of the soldiers of the regiments.  (edited by Amol Awuor)