Sololo residents in Moyale subcounty have pledged to drum up support for Governor Mohamud Ali and Senator Godana Hargura's  re-election bid in Marsabit county. The residents also assured woman representative candidate Nasra Ibrahim of their unwavering support. The three are vying on a UDM ticket. While addressing the residents, organiser of the rally Qabale Wako said there is need to form an alliance with other communities ahead of August 9 polls. She said this would help avoid political division, promote equity and inclusivity in county's leadership. "Mistrust and suspicion among the communities forming a coalition must be avoided. We need to support our lineup to promote inclusivity." She expressed optimism that the voter population in the subcounty would make a significant difference if all residents vote. Wako said that they are going to take campaigns at village level to enlighten the voters on the importance of voting for alliances to gain trust from the community. She urged the community to remain united, saying the division will split the vote and deny them their rightful position. "If we pull in the same direction, we can get where we are going. If we allow our differences to separate us, we are going to back where we were in 2013," she added. Youth leader Qala Shedo hailed Mohamud's administration, especially its scholarship programme, saying the initiatives were a major step in the social and economic development of the county. He expressed his unwavering support for the governor's reelection bid, adding that the programme would alleviate the financial burden on less fortunate people in the county. Shedo also said the governor's decision to free polytechnic training in the county would offer young people an opportunity to learn in their county and gain experience. Community elder Galm Dabaso advised against promoting division while for those seeking elective seats. Mzee Jarso, a resident of Sololo, commended Governor Mohamud's administration for its development, describing it as unprecedented and revolutionary. He urged all the candidates vying for different seat to conduct peaceful campaigns.  (edited by Amol Awuor)