The Jubilee party has said Hussein Tene’s withdrawal from the gubernatorial race does not change their stakes in winning come August 9. The team led by governor candidate Abdi Guyo said their focus remains on winning the election and they do not need outsiders to help in forming the government. The leaders spoke on Sunday during an endorsement by the Agikuyu elders. “I have heard that the Isiolo government is being planned by ‘foreigners’ who have failed in their own county, Marsabit. "We don’t need ideas from failures because Isiolo has capable people, who know the needs of people,” he said. On Sunday, Isiolo UDA governor candidate Hussein Tene stepped down in favour of independent candidate Godana Doyo, 21 days to election. This leaves the race with Guyo, Doyo, former EACC boss Halakhe Dida, Kenneth Turibo Maore (PNU) and little-known Kimaita Machuguma of Safina Party. Despite the move, Guyo said he is optimistic that Jubilee team will win the election as they are a tribal free team. “The Jubilee team stands for inclusivity, equality and development. No tribe is superior than the other and all communities in Isiolo will feel our leadership,” he said. The candidate also promised to set up a rehabilitation center in Isiolo to address the drug menace. Senator Fatuma Dullo urged the electorate to vote for leaders who have the interest of Isiolo at heart including infrastructure, health and education. “I urge you to give me another term to finish the work I started at the Senate. I have lobbied for projects and I will do more if elected," she said. The race to succeed Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti is turning out to be a two-horse race between Doyo and Guyo. Guyo has teamed up with Jubilee colleagues incumbent Senator Dullo, former Education CAS and woman representative candidate Mumina Bonaya and former Isiolo North MP Joseph Samal. Doyo has joined with other independent candidates including incumbent woman representative Rehema Jaldesa, Isiolo North MP Hassan Odha, Isiolo South Jubilee candidate Mohamed Tupi and Senate candidate Nuh Mohamed. The choice of a running mate also plays a crucial role in the race that is appearing to be a battle of wits. Guyo who hails from the Sakuye community has picked James Lowasa, as he banks on the 11, 000 Turkana votes. Hailing from Isiolo’s largest Borana voting bloc, Doyo’s eyes are on the Somali community vote after settling on Omar Hassan as his running mate. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)