At just 24 years old, Rukia Ibrahim has an established passion for defending the rights of men and boys. She says the groups are underrepresented in all spheres as the rest of the world focuses on the girl child. Her age makes her the youngest rights defender in Lamu county at the moment. Despite the tough cultural and religious barriers she faces in her quest, Rukia remains unfazed and has branded herself as the voice of men. In a region where male chauvinism soars above morals and respect, Rukia says it is tough for men to speak out whenever they are abused or going through any issues. “Society has made men feel like stones. Like their feelings don’t matter. I speak for them and tell the world that they have rights too and need to be heard and helped,” she says. It’s for this reason that she deferred her teaching course so she could focus fully on defending human rights, specifically those of men. “While in college, I couldn’t continue because I felt I was being held back from making an impact and that required me to be out here where all these things happen," Rukia says. She further says many rights campaigns in Lamu and across the globe have all focused on the girls and women while the men are left vulnerable and without a voice. Rukia says men shoulder a lot and are expected to act tough even in the face of pain, challenges and hurdles. As a result, men, especially in Lamu, have ended up seeking solace in drugs and other substance abuse as a way to loosen up, relax and temporarily escape from the issues facing them. Rukia says most men in Lamu are stressed out from being overburdened by family and society and, as such, need a safe space to open up and be normal again. The 24-year-old woman has worked and received mentorship programmes from various human rights organisations in the country, including the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the National Coalition of Human Rights Defenders-Kenya. “In Lamu whether or not a woman is working and making some money, the man is still expected to fully provide for her,” she says. She cites the issue of costly dowry payments among the Muslim community in Lamu which she says is unfair and has put a lot of pressure on the men. The situation has denied some men the joy of marriage and rendered them single for life as the dowry is way out of reach for many young men in the region. “Parents here have a tendency of imposing very expensive dowry on their daughters. Many men cannot afford it and end up single because they can’t pay that particular amount," she says. Rukia recalls that there have been incidents where young men are forced to work for years on end just to be able to save money for dowry but are still not able to marry their dream girl. It is because the girl could not wait for them and, instead, opts to marry some rich man. “Where do you expect a young jobless man to get Sh300, 000 for dowry in these hard times? But unfortunately, without it, these men can’t marry. It’s unfair and we are asking parents to be considerate when setting these amounts," she says. Rukia adds that her sensitisation campaigns have also focused on requesting parents to lower bride price to enable young men to marry and have families without much pressure. The firstborn in a family of seven says there is a need to bridge the disparity of representation so as to ensure both genders are fairly represented at all levels. “In any given gathering, there will be a high number of women than men and we need to ensure that balance is achieved,” she said. A recent report by the office of the Lamu director of education Joshua Kaaga revealed that an increased number of boys are dropping out of school at an alarming rate. Rukia says such a situation could easily see crime levels go up in the region in the near future as such dropouts could easily fall prey to criminal gangs and drugs. Even at school, she says the boy is less supervised and mostly left on their own, while teachers and other education officials prefer supervising the girls. “This is dangerous as it gives the boy enough time to stray. It has also obviously impacted negatively on the education of the boys here,” she says. Out of the 12 secondary schools in Lamu county, only two are boy schools while the remaining ten are girl schools. The two are Lamu Boys and Mpeketoni secondary schools on Lamu Island and the mainland respectively. “You can imagine that disparity even in terms of educational infrastructure. Why can’t we have a balance so that boys have six and girls have six schools?" she says. Rukia believes that both men and women must enjoy equal land ownership rights, adding that her campaigns have focused on sensitisation of the same. “One of my biggest achievements is being able to help the local community understand this and, as a result, communal and family conflicts over land have greatly reduced,” she says. Despite her support for men’s rights, Rukia says she stands for general human rights, including those of women and children. She adds that crimes such as child sexual molestation, defilement, sodomy and others must be met with the full force of the law to ensure justice is served to the victims and their families. The rights crusader, however, says despite dedicating her life to helping, fighting and speaking for the men, they have become her number one critics. Rukia says they have despised her work and efforts simply because she is a woman. “It doesn’t deter me. I keep doing what I do for them but it calls for very thick skin to be able to help someone that doesn’t necessarily value what you do for them, ”she says. The human rights crusaders says some men have openly told her off and asked her to get herself a husband and get married instead. “Male chauvinism is still an issue here in Lamu and it makes the work... even tougher but we must do it,” Rukia says. Rukia says there have been situations where men refused to open up to her about their issues because she is a woman. However, some men feel grateful that she has put her dreams on the line to be able to defend them when she would have chosen to pursue other things. Community leader Mohamed Babadoh says though Islam forbids a man from looking up to a woman, Rukia is held dearly by many of them for her boldness, courage and desire to help them. “There are countless women rights activists out there and just a handful for men. Even then, it’s rare to find a woman defending men and that’s why we appreciate what Rukia does for the men here. We don’t take that for granted,” he says. Rukia, who was born and raised in the Langoni area on Lamu Island, is currently pursuing a Diploma in Community Development and Counselling at the Technical University of Mombasa. She has been a full-time activist since 2019.  (edited by Amol Awuor)