Kenya  Kwanza alliance government will ensure Nyeri people are allowed to supply items, especially foodstuffs, to Kiganjo Police College, presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua has said. Gachagua said they will also ensure more people from the area are recruited at the college so that they can benefit from the institution. Kiganjo Police College is located at Kiganjo township in Nyeri town. “This college is ours and should recruit more people from this area,” he said. Gachagua made the remarks after Governor Mutahi Kahiga said they have agreed with the Kenya Kwanza leadership that the locals will benefit from the college if they take over the government. “We also want more people to be recruited at the college during the Kenya Police Service recruitment,” Kahiga said. They spoke at Chaka Township in Kieni East, Nyeri County, on Saturday where they had taken Kenya Kwanza campaigns. Other than the college, Gachagua said the general welfare of the police will also be addressed. He said most police officers are suffering from depression and end up shooting themselves and colleagues due to low pay. Their salaries, he said, will be reviewed to better terms. “When we start paying you well, you should behave well. You should stop taking bribes. You cannot be receiving good pay and still continue taking bribes,” he said. “We want to improve their welfare and pay them well and ensure they have good houses but they should also reciprocate by being friendly to citizens.” Gachagua also pledged to ensure that people who were trading along the railway line in Chaka and Karatina towns are allowed back. Other goodies promised to the locals included doing the Naromoru and Kariminu dams and prioritizing the completion of the Tagwa – Kimahuri - Jet – Munyu road in Kieni. Gachagua said the government will also ensure every Kenyan has an NHIF card, lower prices of foodstuff and fertilizers and ensure primary school education is free. Present were national assembly speaker Justin Muturi, MPs Patrick Mariru (Laikipia West), Tetu’s Gichuhi Mwangi and Nyeri women representative Rahab Mukami among others.