AFC Leopards assistant coach Tom Juma says the players remain positive about the prospects of the club landing a new sponsor after a deal with Spotika went south on Wednesday. The Kenyan Premier League club terminated a whopping Sh60 million pre-contract shirt deal with the nascent betting firm, citing a breach of terms. “The good thing is that all this has happened early enough and the players are already aware of what has transpired,” Juma said on Thursday. “The situation could have been tricky if we had continued to hang our heads in there without funds coming through. I mean, what could we have told our players.” “We can't blame anyone. Hopefully, the club will be in a position to get another sponsor before it's too late. Otherwise, it will not be easy to survive if things remain as they are,” Juma said. In a statement signed by Leopards Secretary-General Gabriel Andugu, Leopards said Spotika had failed to furnish the club with an additional Sh2 million as agreed earlier. The contract signed on June 24, stipulated that Spotika should have paid Leopards Sh4 million by July 17. However, the company failed to top up the Sh2 million remitted on July 1 leading to the drastic decision. “The club has complied with the terms of agreement advertising Spotika’s products on its social media platforms and website. Spotika paid the initial instalment of  Sh 2,000,000,” read part of the statement. “However, in breach of Agreement, Spotika has, despite several requests, refused and/or failed to pay the balance of Ksh 2,000,000 either as agreed or at all. Leopards said efforts to reach out to the firm had proved futile. “As a result of the breach of the agreement by Spotika, the club has been unable to honour its financial commitment to players, staff and suppliers. Further, the club has the ambition to strengthen its squad in this transfer window.” “Consequently, the club has resolved to rescind the agreement with immediate effect. The club wishes the company well in its future endeavours,” concluded the statement. AFC Leopards and their arch-rivals Gor Mahia found themselves back in the market for new shirt sponsors following the withdrawal of BetSafe in May. Meanwhile, Juma said they resumed training on Wednesday as they prepare for the new season set to begin on August 27. “We had 20 players in training on the first day and an additional four joined us on Thursday,” Juma said. 