The death toll from Sunday's Nithi bridge accident on Monday rose to 34 even as first responders to the scene of the Sunday crash recounted the horror at the scene. The driver of the Modern Coast bus lost control, plunging into the river along the Meru-Nairobi road. Mutuiri Gitonga was among those who struggled to save lives after the Sunday evening accident. He was called by a friend, Daizy Rutere, informing him of the crash. Gitonga said upon arrival cars and boda boda had already blocked the road. "Residents were ferrying the victims up the valley, from the bus, which was half-submerged," he said. Gitonga said the accident reminded him of the 1997 Tawfiq bus accident, which killed more than 40 people on the same spot. He said he was traumatised after a child the age of his own was pronounced dead on arrival at the Chuka General Hospital. “I pulled the baby from the wreckage and hailed a cab to take us to hospital. I had carried the child while two other victims were in the back of the cab," Gitonga said. He said en route, he rang the hospital so that they could prepare to receive the child and commence emergency treatment. The baby was however pronounced dead upon arrival at Chuka hospital. Although heartbroken, Gitonga said he went back to the scene aboard a police car that had brought more bodies to the hospital. By 10pm on Sunday police said 22 bodies had been collected from the scene while the rest were confirmed dead on arrival at hospitals. They said some 13 patients were in the intensive care unit. The injured were taken to Chogoria and Chuka hospitals. Witnesses said the Mombasa-bound bus was from Meru town when the accident occurred. They said the driver lost control and plunged into the river. Tharaka Nithi fire and rescue team, Kenya Red Cross, police officers and members of the public helped in the rescue mission. Tharaka Nithi commissioner Nobert Komora said the Modern Coast bus was from Maua and attributed the 6.30pm fatal accident to brake failure, subject to confirmation. “We are sad to report that we have lost 33 people. Some 13 others who are in critical condition are being attended to in Chogoria and Chuka hospitals," he said. Komora said the carrying capacity of the bus is around 44 passengers. “We need to ascertain the number of people who had boarded the bus. "A search is ongoing further downstream and we have commenced the retrieval of the wreckage from the river. We are also waiting for the regional safety committee led by commissioner Evans Achoki,” he said. Drivers have however been cautioned to slow down at the steep Nithi slope. Nicholas Mutegi, an eyewitness, said the bus was speeding down the steep Nithi slope before the accident. "It hit the guardrails and fell into the water. I heard a loud bang when it fell about 40 metres, reducing the bus into wreckage. I counted more than 10 bodies that were put into the police vehicle while more than 20 were injured," he said. Residents called on the National Highways Authority and national and county governments to redesign the road. Laban Karani said the Nithi bridge has become an open grave. "For how long shall we lose lives because of flawed road design? The government should relocate the bridge or the road to prevent future carnage. There is no cost that can be compared to the lives lost since the 1980s," he said. The road has two climbing lanes towards Marima but only one lane to Mitheru. In 1988, 50 people died at the bridge. Some 158 had perished before 2000. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)