Zlatan Ibrahimovic has signed a one-year contract extension that commits him to AC Milan past his 41st birthday. The Sweden striker, who turns 41 in October, scored eight league goals last season as Milan beat rivals Inter to the Serie A title. He had knee surgery in May and was expected to be out of action for eight months. Ibrahimovic revealed at the end of the campaign that he had “barely slept for six months because of the pain”. The former Manchester United and Paris St-Germain striker returned to AC Milan in 2020, helping them secure a first league title in 11 years. Ibrahimovic was also at the club when Milan last won the Scudetto, joining on loan from Barcelona and scoring 14 league goals in 29 appearances to fire them to the 2011 title. He went on to sign a permanent deal but left for Paris St-Germain at the end of the 2011-12 season. Sweden’s all-time leading scorer, with 62 goals in 121 international appearances, is not the only outfield player in his 40s in Europe’s top leagues. Real Betis captain Joaquin, who turns 41 on 21 July, also recently signed a one-year extension to remain at the La Liga club. Meanwhile, Ukrainian club Shakhtar Donetsk are demanding 50m euros (£43m) damages from Fifa for lost transfer fees. In June, football’s world governing body ruled that foreign players in the country could suspend their contracts following Russia’s invasion. The club have appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). “We had to do this because of Fifa’s highly unfair ruling,” Shakhtar Donetsk chief executive Sergei Palkin told BBC Sport. “The consequences mean we will continue to lose significant income from deals we expected to close. “We would also like to highlight that given the situation Ukrainian clubs are facing with the war, there has been little respect shown towards these clubs by Fifa. “Fifa has not looked to protect clubs and at no stage consulted with us to find a solution - they have seemingly ignored the perilous state that Ukrainian football clubs have been facing since the beginning of the war.”