United States-based swimmer Emily Muteti is targeting the 100m freestyle final as she prepares for Commonwealth Games starting this week in Birmingham. Muteti reached the semis five years ago in Gold Coast Australia and will be aiming to go one place better. “Having reached the semis five years ago,  I'm confident I can make it to the final and be competitive. I have taken part in several international events and swimming in the United States has really boosted my performance alongside top coaches and swimmers,” she added. Muteti, who attended the trials in April, said the country has a good crop of swimmers who if well supported can bring medals to the country. "We have a very good crop of swimmers and with support and exposure, we can go places,” she noted. Muteti has been in Denmark for the past two months, horning her skills in a training camp ahead of the Commonwealth Games. "It's been an eye-opener training in Denmark where I have worked on several aspects of my stroke and I am relishing the challenge of competing against the world's best swimmers in Birmingham," she said. Muteti competed at the Tokyo Olympics last year where she exited in the 50m freestyle, describing the experience as tough. “Tokyo was a learning curve but I must admit it was a tough experience due to the Covid restrictions in 2020. However,  I believe I did my best under the circumstances, ” said Muteti. She won a bronze medal in the 4x 100m relays at the All African Games in 2019 in Rabat, Morocco, and believes the experience will be vital. “It was a good experience for me, winning medley at the Africa Games and I am sure this will help in future international events,” added Muteti. Kenya will also be represented by Thorpe Imara Bella, Ridhwan Mohammed and Monyo Maina. Following the conclusion of the swimming program on August 5, Muteti plans to compete at the CANA Championships which will be held in Tunisia from August 20-24. Muteti will have Imara Bella Thorpe for the company alongside Maria Brunlehner and Rebecca Kamau for the four-day event.