Deputy President William Ruto is in a dilemma over the venue of his last rally. Ruto, who is running in the presidential race to become Kenya’s fifth president, had planned to end his months of campaigning in the capital. However, his United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party has been denied the use of Nyayo Stadium on August 6 for their last campaign rally. Sports Kenya said Kasarani stadium will be used for peace prayers that will take place between August 5 and August 7. Ruto’s main rival Raila Odinga is planning to hold his last rally at the Nyayo Stadium. Azimio la Umoja Coalition Secretary General Junet Mohammed, in a statement on Tuesday, July 19, announced that Raila will have his last rally at Nyayo Stadium. “The Azimio campaign team, led by #babanamartha will hold its last official campaign meeting in Nairobi on 6th August 2022 at Nyayo stadium,”reads the letter. With Nyayo Stadium and Kasarani Sports centre out of bounds, Ruto has limited options left. The ongoing renovations mean that  Uhuru Park will not be an option for the Deputy President, as the place is out of use for non-recreational activities. The park has been well known for hosting huge political rallies in the lead up to general elections. On June 15, 2010, six people were killed and hundreds were injured at Uhuru Park where two explosions hit a political rally targeting the "NO" campaign for the constitutional referendum. Recently on January 30, 2018, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga had himself sworn in as the “people's president". In 2002, the park was a favourite ground to Narc Kenya party that kicked out Kanu from power after it unveiled Former President Mwai Kibaki won the general elections. Going down the memory lane, in 1989, the late Nobel Laureate Wangari Maathai led protests against the government plans to construct the 60-storey Kenya Times Media Trust business complex in Uhuru Park. As a result, she was forced by the government to vacate her office and was vilified in Parliament, but luckily her cry was heard and the government's response led foreign investors to cancel the project. In August 1996, a group led by the then Catholic Cardinal and Archbishop Maurice Michael Otunga burned a heap of condoms in Uhuru Park. Ruto's remaning options include the Kamukunji or Jacaranda grounds. However, the two grounds were listed by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services as part of the 76.01 acres identified within the county to be converted to recreational spaces. The areas are located in Embakasi East, Kasarani, Kamukunji , Westlands and Kibera sub-counties. In Embakasi East, NMS has marked 31.73 acre Jacaranda Grounds, which is located near Jacaranda estate, while in Kamukunji there is a 7.27 acre space available for recreational activities. The two grounds have historically been favourites for political campaigns. Ruto’s past rallies at Jacaranda have been marred with chaos and drama . The last one, which was held in June this year, attracted a  heavy contingent of police at the venue as youths allied to Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza battled youth groups associated with ODM leader Raila's Azimio for hours. It was not clear who was behind the attack but at least five people were injured in the chaos including the area UDA candidate Francis Mureithi. At one point, rowdy youths believed to be of the rival camp pelted the DP’s convoy with stones forcing him and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua to retreat from the vehicle's roof. Another option for Ruto is the Kamukunji grounds, where he held a mega rally on June 4, 2022 after being cleared by  the electoral agency to vie for the top job in the August 9, election. It is however, a wait and see on the DP’s next step over the dilemma of his final rally venue in Nairobi.