Two Maasai communities in Kajiado have pledged to stop construction of a Sh12 billion sewer plant for lack of information on its planning. They said they fear seepage from the facility into the nearby river and well. Farmers from the Dalalekutuk and Ildamat communities living within 100 acres of watering point say no proper consultation was done between them and the government. The government through the Athi Water Services Board has requested medium-income country technical assistance fund (MIC-TAF) and African Development Fund (ADF) grants from the African Development Bank towards the help pay the costs. Under the arrangement, the money would build the proposed Oloolotikoshi Dam in Kitengela, the Kitengela-Kajiado water supply pipes and the sewerage project on the border of Ildamat and Dalalekutuk. On Sunday morning, Peter Kilesi, a community elder claimed that about 40 acres of land adjacent to the Olkejuado River and which is in the sewer project area were demarcated without his consent. He suggested the county should have given out its demo farm to the project. Kilesi, Kapiranya Santa, Solomon Mpoke, Matanda Nchoonka, and Ole Kong’u own the land that has been earmarked for the sewer project. The five elders from Dalalekutuk and the Ildamat community are Joel Seki, Daniel Mpoke, Rt Rev (Rtd) Jeremiah Taama, Parsimei Marakat, and the chairman of Shooka watering point Mainge Metiaki. A joint consultant from SERING Ingegneria and Frame Consultants, Eng Francis Kimani. claims he has already done many public participation consulting meetings with the community, a claim that has been denied by the elders. The project coordinator from Athi Water, Eng Winnie Kangai, told the Star on Saturday night she will have a meeting with the community on  Thursday to iron out some of the claimed “teething” issues. “They have been coming to our offices for consultation and because we are still in the initial stages, it is important that we talk,”Kangai said, Kangai said all the due process as required by law will be followed before the project is delivered. Elder Taama told the Star there  are serious outstanding environmental and health concerns that need to be resolved to avoid environmental degradation as witnessed at the  Dandora site plant in Nairobi. “The proposed sewer plant to be built in Dalalekutuk and Ildamat locations in Kajiado Central has many unresolved issues such as  its closeness to Olkejuado River,”  Taama said. The bishop said it is important to note that the immediate neighbouring location where the sewer plant will be built called ‘Shokaa’ in Ildamat, is a century-old common drinking point with a public borehole, shallow wells, and several open pit wells along the riverbank. He said, therefore, the decision to build a sewer plant in the area will directly impact the livelihoods of hundreds of residents who access the area. The bishop added that the water sources for drinking water, farming, and drinking points for the community livestock will be negatively affected by the plant. The elders claimed there is a risk of potential underground seepage of the waste facility into the shallow wells along the riverbank which serve 700 households. It is clear that the residents of Ildamat and Dalalekutuk are not only concerned about their health and safety but also about the devaluation of their ancestral land. The elders said that in conformity with the Constitution, Article 42, citizens have a right to a clean environment and quality air. “We feel that the construction of the sewer plant will deny residents of their constitutional right to a clean and healthy environment and therefore want to formally reject this proposal since the community has not been effectively sensitised,” Seki said.. Seki said the adverse impact on the community’s environment, health, and social-economic well-being has also not been properly addressed. Mpoke said to progress this matter further, several factors should be considered including a response to the questions from the community at large which need to be addressed through public consultation. “The Constitution of Kenya gives the right to public participation and access to information on waste management,” said Mpoke. Moreover, he added, the Environment Act and Regulations are to ensure that such waste does not present an imminent and substantial danger to public health, the environment, and natural resources. “Hence, we strongly feel that The National Environment Management Authority should take a leading role during a new round of consultations-talks with all residents to resolve the matter at hand,” suggested Mpoke. Santa asked, “What feasibility algorithm was used to identify the current target site of the sewer plant and the parties involved in approving the site?” The elders also want to be assured that there will be no occurrence of leakage or flooding that will enter the river and other water sources that the community heavily relies on. “We know that contamination of water sources can cause diseases like cholera and hepatitis and can harm animals and adversely affect the food chain,” Marakat said. "What assurance is there that the installation of the system will effectively eliminate the odour?" NRJ asked Marakat. They also demanded to know who the proposed institution will be managing and maintaining the sewer plant and what plans have been put in place for disaster/emergency management. The location in question is approximately five km from Kajiado town. (Edited by V Graham)