At least 31,000 children affected by severe malnutrition are set to benefit from ready to use therapeutic food. This is after the government on Tuesday flagged off more than 31,500 cartons of therapeutic food donated by the UK Government at Afya House. The lifesaving nutrition commodity was procured by UNICEF through a donation by the UK Government in support of the Government of Kenya’s response to the ongoing drought. The Ready to Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) are set to benefit children in the seven affected counties of Mandera, Turkana, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Samburu, and Isiolo. RUTF is a life-saving essential food that treats severe malnutrition in children under five years old and comes packaged in form of a ready-to-eat peanut paste, fortified with vital vitamins and minerals. “I have just visited Wajir where I met with families affected by the drought. The UN estimates 4.1 million people are suffering from the impact of the drought and are in need of support. We know climate change is driving these worsening droughts,” Nick Dyer said. Dyer is the Director General, Humanitarian and Development at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. Kenya is experiencing a prolonged and severe drought situation as a result of four consecutive failed rainy seasons. This has been driven by climate change and comes on top of the COVID-19 pandemic, an unprecedented situation. The government has been leading on the drought response both at the national and county levels with support from UNICEF and other partners. “The therapeutic foods that we are flagging off today and other batches that have already gone out, will undoubtedly save the lives of children affected by the drought, one of the worst we have seen in decades,” UNICEF Kenya Deputy Representative, Jean Lokenga said. According to Health CAS Rashid Aman, persistent food insecurity has contributed to a dire and deteriorating nutrition situation with about 942,500 children aged between 6-59 months urgently in need of therapeutic treatment for acute malnutrition. “With this consignment, an additional 30,000 children in dire need of treatment services for severe acute malnutrition in the most affected counties will be reached,” he stated.