World Under-20 3,000m steeplechase bronze medalist, Faith Cherotich has admitted that combining books and athletics has not been a walk in the park. The Form 3 student at Kalyet Secondary School, said it has been a delicate balancing act to combine the two facets of her life. "I train twice a day and I have to religiously attend classes to excel both in school and track," she added. During the WU20 trials held last weekend at Nyayo Stadium, Cherotich clocked 9:18.25 to win her specialty ahead of Diana Chepkemoi (9:19.47). "I wake up very early to train before heading to school. After classes, at around 4 pm, I resume my training until late. Balancing between school and track is difficult but I have to manage if I want to excel in both," Cherotich noted. The 17-year-old looks up to world 3,000m steeplechase champion Beatrice Chepkoech and hopes to break her world record in the future. "I admire Beatrice Chepkoech and hopefully, one day, I will get to her level. My dream is to break the junior world record and later on, hopefully, break the senior world record as she did," said Chepkoech. Chepkoech, who trains under Bernard Rono, wants to bag gold in Cali during next month's World Under 20 Championships. However, she said she will have to go back to the drawing board and work on some aspects. "Last year, I won bronze but this year, I am going for gold. I have trained well and I am confident of victory. The only challenge I have now is my finishing speed and I am going to work on that once we set camp at Kasarani," Chepkoech said. Meanwhile, World Under 20 400m runner Elkanah Chemelili counts himself lucky to have been part of the Miramas Camp in France last  April. The youngster expressed his gratitude to Athletics Kenya for organizing the camp because he has gained a lot of new skills, some of which he implemented during the recent national trials. Last year, Chemelili failed to make the cut despite running his personal best in 400m. However, he changed the narrative by winning the race 46:21 during trials. "Going to Miramas has helped me a lot because I learned new tactics. I have also improved my time. I am grateful to AK youth development chairman, Barnabas for organizing the camps around the country. In fact, most athletes who were in France are the ones who have qualified to go to Colombia," he revealed. The 18-year-old, who trains in Ngong, is targeting to get to the finals and come back home with a medal from Cali. "When I go to Cali, by God's grace, I want to make it to the finals and bring a medal home. Qualifying to go to Cali has boosted my confidence and challenged me to work harder," Chemelili concluded.