Traders and residents in Malindi are protesting the delay in the completion of a multimillion-shilling drainage project funded by the World Bank. They say the delay is inconveniencing them in conducting their daily operations. The project began on May 17, 2021, and was supposed to be completed in less than one year. The main contractor of the project is Evernote Consultants limited from Mombasa while the engineer is Butichi and Associates. The project is being supervised by the Malindi municipality board. Efforts to get a response on the reason behind the delay from the municipality board led by chairman Geofery Katsole and the municipal manager Assad Sheyumbe have proved futile. Numerous phone calls and text messages from the Star went unanswered. County chairman of Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Majid Swaleh told journalists that the stormy water drainage project was supposed to collect water from the main roundabout to the Indian Ocean. He said the project was good and the Municipality had engaged and informed them about the plans. "We had agreed that the drainage should start from Star hospital towards town and advised them to ensure it is completed fast so that it would not affect businesses but now it has stalled for more than three months and we don't why," he said. Swaleh said the large trenches dug by the contractor have been left open making it difficult for people to access business premises and when it rains water flows up to people's businesses and residential areas. "We understand this project was funded by the World Bank but those who were to implement it have failed.  We ask them to cover all the trenches to make the roads accessible," he said. Swaleh said there is laxity in the implementation of the project and alleged that there could be a misuse of funds. Nadia Maria, a trader who deals in construction materials, said the drainage project has taken longer than the duration the authorities promised. Currently, the crucial road that links Malindi CBD to the main market in the town is closed "It has affected the business community because there is no access road for our clients, even vehicles are not able to pass or offload cement, iron sheets and other construction materials," Maria said. Maria said sales have gone down and she urged the authorities to speed up the completion of the project so that normalcy can resume. Hamisi Musa, a resident of Barani, which is one of the affected areas, said since the project started many businesses have been affected. He said for the last three months they have been experiencing water shortage because their pipes were destroyed. "They said this project would help divert stagnant stormy water but up to now we have not seen any benefits but more problems," he said. Another trader, Said Mohamed said the delay is not only affecting their businesses but their health too. "Since Covid-19 businesses collapsed now we have so many debts to repay but this project has contributed to more losses," he said. Benjamin Ziro, a bodaboda operator said they were promised jobs when the project begins but they never got any opportunities. (Edited by Tabnacha O)