"No story is worth your life," the Media Council of Kenya told journalists working in banditry-prone areas ahead of the August 9 General Election. Some 30 journalists from Baringo and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties converged for one-day media training at Iten hotel, Elgeyo Marakwet, on June 21. "In journalism, we always believe there is no story of whatever nature that is worth your life,” Media Council programmes manager Victor Bwire told the field reporters. Bwire further said in case of life-threatening situations, journalists ought to be mindful first of their own lives by either avoiding crowds, choosing to hide or run where they have spotted looming riots. "Remember, journalists are equipped only with job gadgets like cameras, pens and notebooks, meaning they are totally harmless. They don’t have weapons to protect themselves in case of attacks," he said. Bwire said when a journalist is killed or dies in the line of duty, the Media Council only writes a mere regret letter or condemns the cold bloodshed killing, "but we can't do anything beyond there to restore a lost life" he said. In case of a sudden weapon or gun-point attack inside an enclosed room or a vehicle, he said, occupants should go down flat, get yourself a position to hide and keep silent. He demonstrated how. "In case you choose to hide, run or confront the attacker with a simple fight, remember you're not doing it to win, instead you're just looking for a way to escape and run for your dear. So be highly conscious and calculative in every move," he said. He warned journalists against bending down to pick fallen items like pens, phones or a notebook in case of a fracas, lest they are mistaken for rioters picking stones or harmful weapons to harm security officers. "That is when you will hear a journalist has mistakenly been shot, beaten up or arrested," he said, reiterating the need for reporters to always identify themselves in every public function. CONFLICT ZONES Currently, the government is conducting a security operation along the volatile Kerio Valley, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and parts of Baringo North subcounty areas. It is yet to be established whether the residents will be able to vote peacefully in the coming elections or they will miss out on exercising their democratic right. "Always trust and follow your own instincts because you never go wrong," Bwire said. He urged reporters to always consult with security officers before heading to cover elections in the active banditry operation zones. "We understand most journalists neither have their own nor the company vehicles, so the majority survive by arranging with colleagues from other fairly facilitated stations or squeeze into police vehicles," Bwire said. He said in the event one lacks the means to safely access insecure zones, then they rather wait for their colleagues to share the story than struggling to ride on a motorbike or trek on foot, putting their own life at risk. Counselling expert Lilian Amusolo urged journalists to be in their right state of mind and avoid personal trauma and stress while covering the elections. "It is obvious anybody with stress has a low concentration capacity, so they will not be able to be cautious with what is happening or about to happen around them," Amusolo said. Most journalists who attended noted that their stresses revolve around work, financial constraints, bad friends and families. MCK press freedom and safety manager Dinah Ondari urged journalists to apply ethical skills in seeking comments or story ideas to avoid brushing shoulders with sources. "Media is not a tool to punish people or leaders. Instead, it is a platform to inform and educate the audience or readers," she said. Ondari said journalists in all stations should embrace fair and balanced reporting, especially during and after the electioneering period.