Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka has said that Kenya Kwanza alliance is confident the IEBC will conduct a free, fair and credible general election. Lusaka said Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition leaders should stop issuing ultimatums to the electoral agency and allow it to discharge its mandate. Lusaka, who is seeking to unseat Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati was addressing a campaign rally at Lutacho market in Webuye constituency on Wednesday. “We know that the commission has prepared for the task ahead. As candidates, we should focus on our vote hunting and not policing the commission. You cannot be the player and referee at the same time,” he said. “We want a peaceful election and it's not the time to begin issuing statements that can cause tension among Kenyans." He said casting doubts on the preparations by IEBC could cause doubts and cause unnecessary tensions. Azimio has demanded that IEBC must provide a manual voter register during the August 9 polls. Addressing a campaign rally in Gatundu on Wednesday,  Azimio  presidential candidate Raila Odinga said they won't compromise on their demand. They want the commission to provide manual registers as complementary method for voter identification should the electronic kits fail on polling day. “Manual register is a must at each and every polling station. This is not negotiable," Raila said. On June 30, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission reverted to its earlier plan to use the electronic register as the sole voter Identifying system. IEBC had planned not to use the manual register on polling day saying it would create an avenue for electoral malpractices. Lusaka said the 2007-8 post-election violence erupted following disputed presidential results and reckless utterances by politicians pursuing personal satisfaction. “Politics is not war. We should not burn the country because of our quest for power,” he said. He said Kenya Kwanza will win the elections in the first round. Lusaka promised to give the Tachoni community the county secretary position if he wins. (Edited by Tabnacha O)