A section of Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) staff wants upcoming promotions stopped. The staff of the State corporation have asked Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe to first have claims that the list favour persons close to the management looked into. They have said it will only be fair to first stop the promotions set to be announced on August 3rd until grievances raised are addressed. “We are not opposed to promotions, but what we are asking for is fairness. What we are asking for are promotions based on merit and not based on who you know,” said a staffer. They called on the CS to also establish if the law was adhered to in the process of identifying those who are set to be promoted. They have questioned why an earlier list of those to be promoted was shelved and a new one developed. They have demanded that the earlier 30 staff recommended for promotion be issued with their letters without further delay. They said a year ago, they were interviewed by the Board of Directors who recommended the promotion of 30 of them. An order was however issued that the jobs be re- advertised. It is this second process that the section of staff has raised issue with. Insiders have said that some of staff who were in the initial list of promotion have since been edged out. “Some of them are being locked out yet they have been in the same job groups for the last 20 years,” they complained. But according to KEMRI acting Head of Corporate Services Antony Wachira, the fresh process was above board. He said a committee made up of both Senior KEMRI staff and Public Service Commission met and shortlisted candidates for the position of KMR3 and KMR4 who are administrative and technical staff. “Just like any outcome of any process, a number of staff were not happy with the outcome of the process because they were not shortlisted. The staff were advised to put in appeal letters for consideration by the Board next week where this will be given serious consideration,” Wachira said. He added that they will meet the affected staff on Monday with the Director General to listen to their grievances. “And if possible a review of the appeal cases” he said. KEMRI CEO Sam Kariuki said short listing is done by committees and not individuals and anyone aggrieved can appeal. “There are Board channels to do that. Certainly the board will listen,” he said.