Shujaa skipper Nelson Oyoo has targeted a place in the quarterfinals OF the Commonwealth Games slated for later this month in Birmingham. The Nakuru RFC winger believes fans will see a different side from the one which has been struggling in the World Sevens Series. "The mood in the team is great coach Damian McGrath has worked on our skillset and Geoffrey Kimani has been working on our strength and conditioning. We are in good shape with two weeks to go,” said Oyoo Shujaa will renew rivalry with neighbours Uganda, Jamaica and one of the tournament favourites Australia in Pool 'D'. The team has been training for a month at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani and Oyoo said they have set themselves a minimum target of hitting the quarters, after which they can plot for the podium. "Our target will be to successfully get out of the pool. However, we will take one game at a time,” noted Oyoo Shujaa lost 22-12 to Uganda in the semis of the Africa Sevens Championship in Kampala and the skipper believes they will have a response when they meet for the second time. “The Africa Sevens Championships was a tough event... coming in between two legs of the World Series but the boys are ready to play them again and get a win," said Oyoo. Oyoo said Australia will be the team to beat in the pool while Jamaica remain an unknown quantity. "Australia have been performing well in the Series while Jamaica will want to upstage the established teams. We have to be on our guard and avoid complacency," said Oyoo. He revealed they have utilised their time at Kasarani to work on their weaknesses in kick offs, ball handling and improving the all-round skills set of the team. “We are working on facets of play which have hampered us this season and we are getting better,” noted Oyoo. Champions New Zealand are in Pool 'A' and face England, Samoa and Sri Lanka while 2014 winners South Africa headline Pool 'B' alongside Scotland, Tonga and Malaysia. Two-time Olympic champions Fiji have a date with Wales, Canada and Zambia in Pool 'C'. The top two teams in each pool qualify for the quarterfinals with the other two drop to the classification category. The Club Games will be ideal preparation for Shujaa in readiness for the Rugby World Cup Sevens slated for Cape Town in September and the Los Angeles Sevens in late August.