Former Taita Taveta governor John Mruttu has promised to realise county development projects through proper utilisation of funds. Mruttu said a recent report by the Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang’o exposed the current regime for being among the worst spenders of development funds. According to the report, Taita Taveta is on the list of the poorest spenders of development billions. Other counties are Machakos, Baringo, Nairobi, Lamu, Narok and Wajir counties. Despite receiving billions for development, Mruttu said lack of prioritisation has left the county with a series of uncompleted projects derailing service delivery. “Our county had the lowest absorption rate of 2.9 per cent followed by Machakos at 5.5 percent. This is too low for a region that is battling poverty,” Mruttu said during an interview on a local radio station at Voi on Wednesday. The ex-county boss is capitalising on projects implemented during his tenure to recapture the county’s top seat. Mruttu said health, agriculture and mining should be prioritised to end hunger and revamp the region’s economy. “The region is a rich agricultural area. Farmers should be empowered to increase food security and have a steady income,” he said. He further said the region’s high mineral deposits can highly transform the economy. The county has tonnes of more than eight different precious stones lying unexploited, according to past geological surveys. The UDA candidate blamed Governor Granton Samboja administration’s poor budget for development and promised to complete all the ongoing projects once elected. According to the CoB report, some 19 counties recorded an absorption rate of less than 20 per cent of development expenditure. “There can never be meaningful development when the budget absorption is low. That is where the county has denied residents fruits of devolution,” Mruttu said. He said the low-budget absorption has also derailed infrastructural development. Besides the past projects, Mruttu is wooing voters with the promise of establishing markets for hundreds of fruits and vegetable farmers in the region. He said his government will improve education standards through awarding bursaries, scholarships and infrastructural development in learning institutions. “We shall partner with investors and development partners to make this county a better place for everyone. Our key point is improving the economy,” he said. Mruttu and Samboja are among 13 candidates who will be contesting the gubernatorial slot. They are Mwatate legislator Andrew Mwadime (Independent), Stephen Mwakesi (PEP), Patience Nyange (Narc) and former senator Dan Mwazo (Wiper). Others are George Mwandembo (DAP-K), Agnes Mwang'ombe(ANC), Godino Mwasaru (Independent), Onsemus Mwinzi (Independent),Tom Mwakwida, (ODM) and Safina’s Francis Mwaita. (Edited Tabnacha O)