After failing to retain his world 3,000m steeplechase title in Oregon, Conseslus Kipruto will be looking to make amends ahead of the Commonwealth Games later this month. The tw0-time world champion won bronze in his specialty after posting 8:27.92, behind winner Soufiane El Bakkali of Morocco and Ethiopia's Lameck Girman, who ran away with gold and silver respectively. Kipruto has been out of action for two years and was happy to have bagged bronze despite failing to defend his title. "I am focusing on the Commonwealth Games and my goal is to defend my title in Birmingham. I am going back to the drawing board and hope to be better. I still have the morale and I know what I can do. It's a busy year and we still have three Diamond Leagues to go and  they are part of my target," Kipruto said. He added: "I gave my best today and I got bronze, which is not bad considering I have been away for two years. I am happy to be back and make it to the podium. There is always a next time and I am hopeful that during next year's World Championships, we will revive Kenya's glory in the steeplechase. " Kipruto also cited inexperience as Leonard Bett and Abraham Kibiwott's main undoing. Kibiwott and Bett finished fifth (8:28.95) and  15th (8:36.74) respectively. "Those guys (Bett and Kibiwott) are in good shape and they are stronger than me. They have speed and mileage and the only shortcoming is a lack of experience and poor tactics. We are going back to the drawing board to see where we went wrong," he said. Kipruto revealed that he experienced some challenges during the last 150m which hindered him from winning the race. In an Instagram post, he noted that he has had tough moments and there were times he struggled with his fitness and mental wellness. He expressed gratitude to his support team and said their efforts had made a difference. "I have had it rough and there were many moments I struggled with my fitness and mentally. I want to thank my family, my friends, my coach, my fellow athletes, Athletics Kenya, my sponsor Nike, the organizers, my management, and all the fans that kept on supporting me. Because of them, my confidence is back," he said.