Garissa governor candidate Mohamed Dekow has promised to build trust between residents and the county government. He said he wants to bridge the gap created from unfulfilled promises made during the 2017 general election. Dekow spoke during the launch of his manifesto at Lantern hotel in Garissa on Monday. The UDA candidate said he will ensure residents have access to basic amenities, if elected on August 9. He said despite the presence of River Tana, Garissa county still experiences acute water shortage. “It is sad to see our girls pushing jerry cans along the roads everyday after school, when we have a nearby river that can sufficiently supply the whole county,” Dekow said. He said it is unfortunate that workers of the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company have not been paid for seven months. “We are going to pay them once elected and improve their infrastructure, so that they may have the capacity to supply water without interruptions,” Dekow said. The candidate said sufficient water supply should be a priority for the Garissa government especially because of the recurrent drought cycles that have negatively affected pastoralists. He said his government will also work closely with all stakeholders to guarantee every citizen access to medical services. Dekow further promised to harmonise terms of service for all health workers and make sure they are paid on time. He said he will also equip the Garissa Referral Hospital, which is currently serving the Northeastern region. “Can you imagine that in 10 years of devolution, patients in Garissa Referral Hospital are still being asked to go for drug prescriptions or X-ray and CT scans in private hospitals? “All subcounty hospitals in Garissa will offer these services to decongest the referral hospital and take services closer to the people,” Dekow said. The candidate rallied residents to vote for him promising to tackle issues of unemployment, clan conflicts, agriculture and roads. “If we fix our systems, we fix our society. We have that opportunity this year; to make the changes we need using our votes,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)