A section of parents of Ambira High School has accused Chief Principal Joseph Otieno of denying students with school fees arrears food. Otieno has however denied doing so. The parents and the community reported that learners who had school fee arrears for the second term were being denied food. The allegation had it that the students were not being allowed into classes and not being sent home either. A parent Jane, not her real name, told the Star that she visited the school on Friday after receiving distressing news that her child was starving. “Our children were calling home to report that they were not attending classes, being denied food and not being allowed to go home,” she said. She reported that Otieno had earlier threatened to execute his intention on the school’s WhatsApp group but the parents took the matter lightly. "I found students dirty, lying on the playing field and they had not eaten," said Jane who had travelled from Busia County. She said that the school’s canteen was only operational from 5:00 pm and served loaves of bread and soda only. Jane, said that, on her part, she had cleared fee arrears via the institution’s Pay Bill number but her child was still hungry like the rest. Another parent, who sought anonymity, said that he received a depressing phone call from his son Friday evening. The son told him that he, and his colleagues, were sheltering under a tree despite the heavy downpour which was experienced after being sent out of classes and denied an opportunity to go back home. The Chief principal, however, denied the allegations saying that everything was running smoothly at Ambira. “The students took breakfast, lunch and supper. Nobody… not even a quarter human being has been sent home on the basis of school fee arrears,” Otieno reiterated. He noted that the students have been participating in and winning ball games; not akin to players who have not eaten. “Yesterday they beat a school 5:0, another 4:0 and today we are going for finals. I told parents who came to school to pay fees but their children are in school. Education CS George Magoha has continually instructed school heads not to send any learner away over non-payment of school fees. Speaking in Mbaga Girls High School on July 16, Magoha said that all schools in the country would have capitation funds in their accounts by Monday, July 18, latest. With the funds, the CS noted that heads should be in a position to run schools smoothly without halting learning.