Kiambu is among the counties that have been removed from the National Cohesion and Integration Commission list of violence hotspots. It had been one of the 23 counties mapped out by the agency in February as possible hotspots for violence before, during and after the August election. County commissioner Joshua Nkanatha said that they have been working with the police, chiefs and community leaders to ensure there is peace during the electioneering period. Nkanatha, who was speaking during the County Governance Committee workshop at Kiambu headquarters, thanked all stakeholders for implementing peace strategies that have seen the county removed from the list. The commissioner also urged all the subcounty peace committee chairpersons to continue to reach out to Kiambu residents, especially the youths not to be used by politicians to propagate violence. “The boda boda sector, despite being a good source of income for our youths, is being taken advantage of by politicians. We need to sensitise these youths against being misused,” he said. Nkanatha further warned the residents against using social media to spread hate, reminding them that it is only the leadership of this country that is being changed, by votes and not by guns. “We are on the lookout, and those caught propagating any chaos will face the consequences. We should be the champions of peace,” the commissioner said. County Governance Watch programme manager Edna Miriti echoed Nkanatha's words, urging Kiambu residents to report any incidents of incitement through the toll-free number 0800721528. “We are in the process of coming up with a communication platform that will ease communication for improved vigilance,” Miriti said On concerns by various subcounty peace chairpersons on additional members to the peace committee, Miriti said that the committee will be issued with branded wear to ease their operations. Aboo Nurein, who is the chairperson of the Thika West peace committee, said that leaders who will be caught spreading hate speech should be arraigned in court to answer for their actions to serve as a lesson to others. Githunguri subcounty peace chairperson George Mukura urged residents to maintain peace. Kiambu subcounty peace initiative chairperson Beatrice Ndichu said that they will keep advocating for peace in the county even after the election and called upon the residents to work together to make the country safe. “Let us unite. If we work together our country will be safe,” she said. The County Governance Watch in partnership with Mercy Corps and Usawa Kwa Amani has been holding peace forums in Kiambu subcounties to sensitise the residents on the need to spread peace during and after the election period. The county has attracted nine aspirants gunning for its top seat.  (edited by Amol Awuor)