There is an elaborate plan by the Azimio la Umoja Coalition party to reject the presidential election results if they lose the August 9 general election, Deputy President William  Ruto has sensationally claimed. On Friday, during a rally at Fort Jesus in Mombasa, Ruto added that the Azimio Coalition, through the national government, is planning to frustrate the Independent Electoral and Boundaries (IEBC). Reacting to an incident, in which the police arrested three foreigners at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) with IEBC materials, Ruto said the arrest was a plan hatched by the state to intimidate IEBC. "They (Azimio) are now coming up with intimidation tactics. Yesterday, people working for IEBC were arrested at JKIA. This is a plan to intimidate IEBC, we will not allow you to intimidate IEBC, we will not allow you to manipulate IEBC," said Ruto. He said the Raila Odinga-led coalition party has sensed defeat. “We know, you have started all these games because you have no numbers to win the elections. You are not going to manipulate this election,” said Ruto. He said the election will not be postponed because of theatrics by Raila’s Azimio la Umoja Coalition party. “The people of Kenya are ready for the election on August 9 and you will do nothing about it. You cannot move that election by a single day,” said Ruto. On Thursday, three employees of Smartmatic International B.V, the company procured by the IEBC, to provide technology for the August 9 general election were arrested at JKIA. IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati termed the arrests as “unjustified intimidation, harassment, and blackmail”. The three personnel, who were arrested upon arrival at JKIA from Venezuela, were in the country to execute a lawful contract relating to the deployment of technology in elections, said Chebukati. Coming to the defence of IEBC, Ruto said the Azimio coalition is against the technology and has been calling for the use of manual registers. “They want to take us back to the manual register because they are against technology. They want the use of a manual register, which can easily be manipulated, we are telling them that it is only a digital register that will be used,” said Ruto. Ruto, who was accompanied by Governors Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), and Alfred Mutua (Machakos), said he was confident that Kenya Kwanza would win the August 9 general election. “We are asking them to politely accept the defeat. They should not even go to court to try and challenge the results, because we know them for that,” said Ruto. Last week, while on a tour of Mombasa, Raila challenged Ruto to also accept defeat, if his team loses the August 9 general election. Raila said Ruto should accept that his popularity rating in the county has gone down over the last few months. “I want Bwana Ruto to publicly declare that he will accept the election results, even if he will be defeated on Election Day,” said Raila. Ruto’s visit to Mombasa came barely a week after Raila’s visit. Others who accompanied Ruto included Mombasa UDA governor candidate Hassan Omar MPs Mohammed Ali (Nyali) and Charles Njagua (Starehe). Ruto winded his Mombasa town with a rally at Changamwe.