A spat between Kisii governor candidates Simba Arati of ODM and UDA's Ezekiel Machogu on Sunday night momentarily disrupted a live radio show. Police had to move to the Kamel Park auditorium in Kiogoro, Nyaribari Chache, to cool down the emotions of the candidates before the debate resumed. Arati called Machogu a "parliamentary cook" sparking anger. The Nyaribari Masaba MP is chairman of the catering committee in the National Assembly. Other candidates including Chris Obure (Jubilee), Manson Oyongo (KNC), Ratemo Onchiri (Usawa), Sam Ongeri (DAP-K) and Josiah Onyancha (independent) listened in consternation as Arati tore into their private lives, forcing radio show hosts to intervene. In one instance, Arati told Obure to improve his compound as it was currently fenced using mabati (iron sheet). He also promised to give him a good car if he secures the seat. Obure rejected the offer. Egesa Radio host Sorobi Moturi had to ask Arati to clarify his development agenda away from Machogu and Obure attacks. "Mr Simba, can you clarify if your development agenda is Machogu,” Moturi told Arati. There were immediate protests against Moturi from the ODM candidate’s supporters. There was, however, jubilation among Machogu supporters who protested the way Arati was personalising the debate. The debate was stopped for half an hour as police and politicians attempted to calm down their supporters from clashing into the auditorium. The candidates, except for Arati, later said they will concede defeat if voters will not favour them August 9. Arati said he has no words like defeat in his dictionary, exuding confidence he will defeat his opponents. Machogu said he is ready to concede defeat if the polls will not be rigged. “If there is nothing untoward, I will cede ground. Polls come and go,” the former provincial administrator said. Machogu, Obure and Ongeri told voters to elect them on account of their experience in civil service and in political leadership. They promised to fight cartels and middlemen to end exploitation of farmers. Obure said he will leverage his political experience to improve services in the regional administration. “I vouch for inclusivity and consultative leadership, which I think is the missing link to push the country forward,” he said. Obure and Oyongo are making their second stab at the seat while Ongeri and Machogu are making their first attempt. Arati said he will deal ruthlessly with the corrupt if he is elected  governor. Onyancha said he will not spend a penny to bribe people to vote for him. He promised to hunt down corrupt cartels in the county and end impunity if elected. Edited by A.N