Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has launched the"Making Champs of Tomorrow" programme which seeks to help young people to identify their talent in sports early and nurture it. The event attracted pupils from primary schools in Nairobi. The programme will feature disciplines including volleyball, football, rugby, basketball and athletics. Jimmy Geeraerts, the event organizer, said young people aged between six and 16 are eligible to take part in the program. He said the secondary schools' program will be launched today (Wednesday). He said the programme will be launched in all counties in search of talent and the juniors who will post exemplary results will be keenly monitored afterward. “This programme is an idea from the Sports CS Amina Mohamed. The aim is to give a chance to young people to have a taste of various sports and realise their potential in sports. We are targeting to reach 15,000 kids. A lot of these kids do not have access to sports facilities and this program will help them," Geeraerts said. He added: "Once we have identified their talent, we will follow up on them. The next programme has not been put in place yet but our follow-up will entail monitoring the upcoming stars. The boys and girls are being given equal opportunities." Ofafa Primary School head teacher, Catherine Njoroge noted that the initiative will benefit the students as they will learn new skills. "This initiative will help nurture young talent. This will also be a good way of exercising and will help the children to learn the importance of teamwork. Our school wants to invest heavily in sports," she said. She added: "I want to urge all young people to come out and show their talent. This is the first project and we are very thankful." Mark Ojuma, a class seven pupil at St. Michael's primary school in Nairobi was among the youngsters who participated in the event. Ojuma said he is elated to be part of the initiative where he intends to grow his prowess in football. "I am very happy to be part of this initiative and so far, I'm enjoying myself. I am trying out other games but my focus is on football. I am confident that I will grow my talent and one day, play football internationally," Ojuma said.