The 2021/2022 Kenyan Premier League runners-up, Kakamega Homeboyz, have confirmed the departure of striker David Okoth. The club brought the development to light in a statement on Thursday. “After years of service to the club, David Okoth leaves Kakamega Homeboyz FC. All the best to him at his new station and thanks for the memories,” read the statement. Okoth, 29, showered the club with praise and wished his former teammates a successful season. "A big thanks to all Kakamega Homeboyz family, from the chairman, the technical bench, players, and fans for the good times we had together,” wrote Okoth in a social media post. “As we open another chapter of life in this industry, I pray for your continued support all through the journey and also to wish the club all the very best in the coming season, once again. Thank you very much.” Okoth was named the club's April Player of the Month after plundering home five goals in four matches, securing six points for his club in the process. Police announced Okoth's arrival, alongside three other new signings as they limber up for the new league campaign scheduled to kick off on August 27, 2022. The three are Patillah Omoto acquired from Kariobangi Sharks and the duo of Reagan Otieno and Baraka Badi, joining the side from KCB. The law enforcers' head coach Sammy Omollo said the move is aimed at strengthening the squad as they train their guns on a maiden top-flight title next season. The quartet joins the burgeoning list of local stars enlisted by the law enforcers following their promotion to the top tier last season. Notable among the fresh recruits are former Simba SC midfielder Francis Kahata, Clifton Miheso, Musa Mohammed, Elvis Rupia, Harun Shakava and Eric Juma. Okoth honed his skills at Nyadhi Primary School, where he skippered the squad to the regional finals of the 2006 school ball games. He thereafter proceeded to St. Patrick's School, but his exceptional exploits on the pitch saw him trade schools before he ultimately settled at Ambira High School where he sat for his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) in 2013. His club career took off with a stint at Bondo United in the Division One before he found a home at top-flight side, Nzoia Sugar seasons later.   