Garissa Township MP Adan Duale now says the Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja has already started preparing grounds on which they will reject the August polls results. He claims the accusations from the coalition directed at the election commission are aimed to interfere with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) mandate. “The same fellows crying wolf now about IEBC are the same that have conjured a plethora of excuses to make sure the agency does not execute its mandate,” Duale stated. The Azimio Coalition has claimed that there was ‘interference” in the printing of this year’s General Election ballot papers by Bungomba Senator Mosses Wetangula whom they accused of informally liaising with a group of Greek businessmen awarded the ballots tender in October last year. In a letter to the IEBC and EACC, Raila’s camp alleges Kenya Kwanza is planning to interfere with the General Election through its close relationship with a Greek firm awarded the ballot printing tender in October last year. The firm's officials were invited to Kenya by Wetang’ula nine months before they clinched the multi-billion-shilling deal. Through secretary-general Junet Mohamed,the coalition demanded that IEBC in conjunction with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) “immediately commence full and thorough investigations” on Senator Wetang’ula’s relationship with Inform Lykos (Hellas) SA (the Greek company). Also that “immediate action be taken to protect the General Election from interference through the surreptitious introduction of electoral materials or other unlawful means”. Bungoma Senator Wetang'ula has however denied having any business relations with the IEBC. In a statement responding to a report linking him to the Greek firm contracted to print ballot papers for the August general election, the senator said the article ,published  by Daily Nation, is malicious and false. Wetang'ula also told the Orange Democratic Movement party to keep him away from their election troubles. In addition, Duale said the decision is in the hands of Kenyan people who will vote for the figures they want to lead the next government. “The people will decide their next crop of leaders on 9th August to liberate our country from state capture, unemployment, extrajudicial killing, impunity, political deceit and destroying the constitution through BBI fraud,” he said .