Fresh from winning the Prinsloo, Menengai Oilers have been pitted against Masinde Muliro, Nondescrip and Vihiga Granites in Pool 'A' ahead of this weekend's Kakamega Sevens. Oilers need to get to the final to win their first-ever national sevens title and Gibson Weru believes they have the momentum from winning on home ground. "I believe we have the winning formula for this weekend in Kakamega but we are going to take it one game at a time and see what happens next,” he said. Strathmore, who were runners-up in Nakuru, top Pool B and will face Mwamba, Catholic Monks and Kisumu. The varsity side are placed third on the log with 85 points and will need both Oilers and KCB to slip up if they are to win the overall title. Homeboyz RFC are in a tricky Pool C, where they face Kenya Harlequin, hosts Western Bulls, and Nakuru while reigning champions KCB have to contend with Kabras Sugar, Impala and Daystar Falcons in Pool 'D'. There have been five different winners of the circuit which is the most competitive of the series in the recent past with KCB winning the Kabeberi and Strathmore bagging the Christie Sevens. Mwamba gatecrashed the party by winning the Driftwood Sevens, Homeboyz won Dala while Oilers settled for Prinsloo. The tournament has received a boost after Kenya Breweries Limited, through its flagship brand, Tusker announced Sh2 million sponsorship boost for the tournament. The sponsorship follows the company’s previous involvement in the circuit having offered similar support of Sh 2 million to recent legs Kabeberi, Christie, Driftwood, Dala and Prinsloo. This brings the company’s overall sponsorship for the circuit to Sh12 million. Like in the previous tournaments, KBL has secured the rights to be the event’s official alcohol beverage partner, and will also sponsor the event’s planned after-party for the two days. Commenting on the sponsorship, Tusker Manager Kilel Chepkemoi said; “We are delighted to be heading to Kakamega this weekend for the final leg of this year’s National Sevens Circuit. "Once again, as has been the case in the previous events, KBL is happy to announce that we shall be sponsoring the tournament to the tune of Sh2 million. "This money is meant to support the event’s organization and ensure its success," said Chepkemoi.