Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has reaffirmed his stance that manual voters registers must be used at the August polls. IEBC had planned not to use printed registers on polling day saying they would create an avenue for electoral malpractices. But speaking on Wednesday in Gatundu, Raila said they won't compromise on their demand for the commission to provide manual registers as complimentary method of voter identification should the electronic kits fail on polling day. "Manual register is a must at each and every polling station. It's not negotiable," Raila said. On June 30, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission bowed to pressured and reverted its earlier plan to use the electronic voter register as the sole document for identifying voters. The commission, however, said it would only resort to the manual register as a last resort in case of a technology breakdown. The decision ended weeks of scuffling between the commission, Raila  and UDA presidential candidate William Ruto. "We are telling the IEBC they must have a manual register along with biometric identification of the voters on that polling day. Kabla hiyo, hakuna uchaguzi," Raila reiterated. The tussle on the use of the manual register generated so much hit so much that the electoral agency organized a consultative meeting with the four presidential candidates for an amicable resolution. Besides Raila and Ruto, George Wajackoyah of Roots Party and Agano's David Mwaure Waihiga were present at the meeting held at the Windsor Hotel in Kiambu County. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati assured the candidates that their concerns over the register would be addressed amicably. “The issue of the register will be addressed and it will be shared with the stakeholders and we shall break them down up to each polling station,” Chebukati said. Prior to the Windsor meeting on June 29,  Raila and Ruto had taken a common stand on the phasing out of the physical register. Ruto, however, changed tune and said he would be okay with an electronic register provided the IEBC issued sufficient guarantees that all registered voters would be allowed to cast their ballots. The Azimio-One Kenya team however insisted that the exclusive use of the electronic voter identification system would be against the law. "The insistence is not that you don't use technology. Use all the systems that have been described but the law requires you to have that system in place whether it will be used or not," lawyer Paul Mwangi said, citing the Election Act. "It's our position that for the election to be free and fair, the law must be upheld to the latter. We are concerned that if the law is not upheld then anyone can go to court if the printed register is not used," Azimio national chief agent Saitabao ole Kanchory added.