Defending champion 1,500m Purity Chepkirui, World Under-20 3,000m SC bronze medallist Faith Cherotich and defending champion  10,000m walk race Heriston Wanyonyi are among the athletes named to represent the country at the World Under-20 Championships in Cali, Colombia from August 1 to 8. Chepkirui. expressed excitement after making the team but admitted that she has to work on her speed if she is to defend her title. "My speed has gone down and if I don't work on it, I could have problems at the global show. I want to go back to the drawing board and sort things out," Chepkirui said. The Africa Athletics Senior Championships silver medalist attributed her win to her participation in the senior races. "My participation in the senior races  has given me solid experience and tactics and I am confident of pulling fantastic results on the other side." She added: "Running with the seniors has given me motivation to work hard and I have also learnt new tactics. I will be graduating to senior races next year and I am also excited about it," Chepkirui added. Cherotich, on the other hand, is confident that she will bag a gold medal in Cali. She, however, acknowledged that she will have to work on her finish if she is to make podium finish.“I only need top polish up my finishing and I will be set,” Cherotich said. Chepkirui finished first in the women’s 1,500m race in 4:08.08 while Cherotich clocked 9:18.25 to win the women’s 3,000m steeplechase. AK president Jack Tuwei urged the young athletes to represent the country well and come back with medals. He warned that the championship will not be easy and urged athletes to up their game if they are to keep up with the competition on the other side. "As you go to Cali, I know you are going to defend the title we have held for the last two editions. Don't expect an easy ride because every athlete across the world has prepared for the  competition. You have to make sure you work closely with your coaches so that they guide you," Tuwei said. Tuwei also urged the youth to keep pressing on because they are the future of the nation. "The youth are the future of this generation and I am looking forward to see all of you in the next World Championships in Budapest and Olympics in Berlin. I want to wish you all the best as you prepare for the championship,” Tuwei concluded. FULL TEAM Men: 10,000m walk: Herristone Wanyonyi; 400m-H: Peter Kithome, Allocious Kipngetich; 5000m: Samuel Kibathi, Shadrack Rono; 1500m: Daniel Kimaiyo, Reynold Kipkorir: 800m: Brian Kiptu, Noah Kibet; 3000 SC: Emmanuel Wafula, Peter Rono; 3000m: Michael Temoi, Edwin Kimosong; 400m: Elkanah Chemelil, Samuel Toili. Women’s 10,000m walk: Margaret Gati; 15000m: Purity Chepkirui, Brenda Chebet; 3000m: Betty Chelangat, Nancy Cherop; 800m: Nelly Jepchirchir, Evelyne Chepkoech; 3000m SC: Faith Cherotich, Diana Chepkemoi: 5000m:  Maurine Cherotich, Jane Gati; 400m: Damaris Nduleve, Sylvia Chelangat; Long jump: Winnie Chepngetich.