Some People with Disability have called upon the government to support them in nurturing their talents in sports. Jackline Akinyi, a PWD, said that most people with disability in Mvita constituency are engaging in the use of drugs because they have nothing to keep them busy and no shelter. “We have PWD sports where we engage in different activities but we have never found any person who is willing to support us," she said. "Sports help a lot, therefore, we are calling upon the government to defend us and stretch their support in sports to nurture our talents.” Akinyi said that during Covid-19 pandemic, most of their businesses were affected and so far there is no leader who has come out to help them revive them. “Politicians always gives us promises to get our votes but once they are voted, they forget us. That is why we are calling upon the incoming Mvita MP to defend us,”she said Speaking during an engagement with Mvita MP candidate Said Twaha in Mombasa, Mvita Physical self-help group chairman Francis Opondo said that they need a leader who will help them to pass the PWD policy which will benefit every person. “We are only asking for support from the government to help us start business. Most of us live and beg on the road because we do not have shelter or any other means of living," he said. "It is not our wish because we have no means of sustaining ourselves,” he said. Opondo said that the cash transfer policy which had been made specifically for them was changed and now will help only those with severe conditions. According to him, people with severe conditions are the ones who are on the bed and cannot move. Josphat Mwaura, also a PWD, said that for a long time, leaders who have been elected in Mvita constituency do not consider issues concerning them. “Getting bursaries and contracts from the county government has been a great challenge to us. Our companies are not given any priority when it comes to issuing tenders," he said. He said that out of all the aspirants in Mvita, Twaha is the only person who is ready to work with them. Mwaura, who has been chosen to work with the aspiring MP’s team, said that through Twaha’s leadership, they will bring change to the PWD community. “We need a disability Act in the county assembly of Mombasa, a policy that will address issues touching on PWD," he said. "Currently there is no any policy that the county can say they are using to address our challenges. Whatever is happening is being done out of political goodwill.” They called upon the National Council of PWD to defend the deaf community in terms of ensuring that every office has an interpreter to make it easy for them to access services. Twaha pledged to support and address their challenges if elected. “I reviewed my manifesto and in terms of education, the PWD community will be given first priority in bursary allocation and those who would want to go for further studies will be given school scholarships,” he said. According to procurement law, Twaha said that 30 per cent of the contract is supposed to be given to women, youth and PWD. Under his leadership, he said, he will ensure that these groups of people get what belongs to them without any discrimination. Twaha promised to form PWD Sacco and through it, his office will provide funds which will help them in developing themselves.  (edited by Amol Awuor)