The International Republican Institute has met candidates vying for five seats in Migori to commit them to uphold peace ahead of polls. The organisation also brought together civic organisations, businesspersons, elders and opinion shapers to form an eminent persons team for peace. Bishop Nelson Kongere, the group chairperson, said they met security officers, election officials and candidates for governor and four constituency seats of Suna West, Awendo, Kuria West and Nyatike. “These five seats have led to violence between candidates and supporters. We have organised these meetings to ensure candidates sign a peace accord and reduce tension,” Kongere said. He spoke on Wednesday in Migori town when the team met with former Suna West MP Joseph Ndiege who will contest against the incumbent Peter Masara of ODM. On Thursday, Peter Nyangoche a driver and guard in Masara’s campaign team was shot from the back by unknown people in Migori and rushed to a local hospital in critical condition. On Wednesday, former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga was arraigned in Migori law court over the gun assault drama on Saturday at Lwanda, Konyango centre in Nyatike During the incident, 35-year-old was Ochieng was injured. Appearing before senior principal magistrate Justice Johnston Munguti, Anyanga through his lawyers did not take a plea until August 25. He was released on Sh300,000 cash bail or Sh1 million bond. Anyanga, the UPIA candidate is facing the incumbent Tom Odege of ODM. “In the governor race, candidates have had teargas canisters lobbed at their functions, campaign materials destroyed and even physical assault of supporters. We need to change tact ahead of polls,” Kongere said. The group met with governor candidates John Pesa of DAP-K, Ochillo Ayacko of ODM and Dalmas Otieno of Jubilee through their representatives. Omole Opinya, a member of the eminent person panel said after the meeting candidates signed a pact promising to maintain peace during campaigns. “We believe the pacts are a commitment by candidates to foster peace and have police on standby to offer timely alerts to avert chaos,” Opinya said. Ndiege who signed the pact called on police to act on an alert and tip-off, but so far they are keen on maintaining peace. In the past Migori county commissioner, Meru Mwangi has said they have been on high alert to maintain peace and have been monitoring about ten political gangs.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris