After persevering a heartwrenching season where his club was dramatically relegated from the Kenyan Premier League, Mathare United owner Bob Munro has finally found a reason to smile. Munro was ecstatic after receiving news that he had been named to the Order of Canada in recognition of his exceptional work on environmental issues and sustainable development. The development came to public light through a statement released on Friday by the High Commission of Canada in Kenya through its political and public affairs officer, Njeri Munyiri. “The Governor-General of Canada Her Excellency the Right Honourable Mary Simon, has announced the appointment of Bob Munro, founder of the Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA), to the Order of Canada, the country’s highest honour,” the statement read in part. Munro immediately responded with an appreciation message, saying he felt privileged to be honoured by his home country. “With the scarcity of good news these days, I thought I should share some. Although my focus has always been on getting positive results and change rather than awards, I must honestly confess that getting this award was a happy surprise,” Munro said. Munro was born in Canada but has been living in Kenya since 1985. He worked as a United Nations rapporteur for the first UN Conference on the Human Environment (UNCHE), held in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1972. He also served as a senior policy adviser for the 1987 World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED), which made sustainable development, a top local and  global policy priority. “In addition to these initiatives,  Munro helped create and then locate the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and UN-HABITAT in Nairobi in the 1970s,” the statement continued. “Munro is also well known for his community service, most notably his work as the founder of the Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA).” MYSA was established in 1987 as a community development organization in the slums of Nairobi, which soon became the global pioneer for the now worldwide movement on sport for development and peace. Over 30,000 young boys and girls participate annually in the MYSA self-help youth sports and community service programmes which “Gives youth a sporting chance” on and off the field. Munro is married to Ingrid Munro and has five children, including three Kenyan sons. They also have six grandchildren located in two countries (Kenya and Sweden). The news is a welcome relief for the veteran football administrator who watched helplessly as the Slum Boys' 24-year-old existence in the top-flight league came to an abrupt end due to deep-rooted financial constraints. About the Order of Canada Canada’s greatest honour, the Order of Canada honours people who make extraordinary contributions to the nation. Since its creation in 1967, Canada’s centennial year, more than 7,600 people from all sectors of society have invested in the Order. The contributions of these trailblazers are varied, yet they have all enriched the lives of others and made a difference in Canada.