This is a question men ask themselves all the time, especially during the first days, when trying to win over a woman. Before a man learns a woman’s love language, it is difficult for them to understand what the woman wants. Below are tips to help you figure it out. LISTEN Women want a listening ear, someone they can always tell how they feel. When she comes back from work, she might want to talk about how good or bad her day has been. While listening to your woman, ask some questions and also show empathy because it means so much to her. COMMUNICATE As you know, women love the ‘game of words’, and this is what most of them fall for. Don’t wait until the weekend for you to reach out. Instead, make the communication consistent. A random, ‘Hey, hi, hello’ during the day always works well for women. When you are good at communicating with your woman, you’ll always get to know what they are up to or what they think. This also narrows down to when you guys have issues or are going through a tough time. Good communication will help you solve the issue in a better way. RESPECT OTHER WOMEN Women love seeing a man they love treating other women with the utmost respect, no matter who they are. For instance, women fear a man who is constantly mishandling female strangers or even women they know. If a man constantly speaks ill about either an ex or even a female boss, that’s a turn-off for women. SPACE This aspect is always misunderstood, especially when the man has not learned a woman's love language. For some women, quality time is their love language and so they want to spend a lot of time with their lover. However, other women prefer to meet only on weekends or even twice a week. But this does not mean they don’t want to spend time with you. In fact, space is important because it makes the heart grow fonder, they say. AFFECTION Once a woman lets you know their love language, the best you can do is abide by it. A woman should not have to constantly remind the man what their love language is. She wants to be shown affection in all ways, physical, emotional and even verbally.