Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano is keeping his fingers crossed that the Kenyan Premier League champions will be allowed to play at the 2022/2023 CAF Champions League. Matano is apprehensive they may miss out on the forthcoming campaign of the continental showpiece if the impasse between the world football governing body, Fifa and the Kenyan government is not resolved in time. Tusker embarked on their pre-season preparations on Wednesday amid the nagging uncertainty. “We are looking forward to some positive news. Hopefully, the wrangling parties will reach an amicable solution. My players worked extremely hard to secure a chance to represent the country, so we hope that we will be able to play,” Matano said after their first training session. “We will just train and prepare regardless of the situation. You never know what might happen next.” Matano's charges clinched the national title on the back of a healthier goal difference over Kakamega Homeboyz, with both teams tied at 63 points upon the conclusion of the Premier League fixtures. The continental football governing body, Caf, has set August 15 as the deadline for teams to register players for the preliminary rounds of the Champions League. Caf released an outline for the preliminary rounds of the inter-club competitions that kick off in September, with the finals planned for June next year. The regulatory deadline for member associations to submit their engagement requests has been set for July 31. Tusker's last campaign in the continental showpiece ended in the play-off round after crushing 1-0 on aggregate to Tunisia's CS Sfaxien. Earlier in this month, the government held out a ray of hope after saying it had initiated a plan towards ending the stalemate with Fifa. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee head of secretariat Lindah Ogutu said the government is burning the midnight oil to ensure that Kenyan teams are not locked out of competitions organised by the continental football governing body, Caf. “You understand that both Fifa and Caf consider the Transition Committee to be a government agency and, therefore, there is no way the two bodies can engage us in any conversation,” Ogutu said. “All I can say now is that talks aimed at resolving the existing standoff are already ongoing and we are almost reaching a deal. I can't divulge the details because I would be overstepping my mandate but believe me, everything will be made public soon.”