Former Garissa governor Nathif Jama took a jibe at his successor Governor Ali Korane for failing to build on his legacy. He said the county had made several strides after decades of marginalisation, but has lagged since he left. Jama spoke during the launch of his manifesto at a Garissa hotel on Saturday. The ODM candidate however promised to pick up from where he left and prioritise water and health sectors. He said based on his experience and previous record, his manifesto is fact-based, realistic and doable. "I come before you with highlights of my manifesto, as I seek the mandate to restore hope in our county. "It is unfortunate that our county has been sent decades back and set to factory reset, by those who destroyed the gains we made. Inshallah, we shall build and bind all that we lost,” Jama said. The former governor said the county is in a mess. He said the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company has failed to supply water to residents. The town has for the last six months experienced acute water shortage with residents being forced to buy from vendors at an exorbitant fee. The staff have also gone for five months without pay and threatened to strike on several occasions. “It is unfortunate that a company that was well funded under my administration and was able to supply water to residents of Garissa town and its environs, can barely do so at the moment. "The blame squarely lies on the leadership, which has terrible failed,” Jama said. He however said if elected, he will increase the water supply to be able to cater for the fast-growing demand. The candidate said he will construct mega dams, which will harvest rain in various subcounties, for pastoralists to have enough supply for their livestock and domestic use. He further said the unfortunate lack of drugs and medical reagents at health facilities is something that was not witnessed during his tenure. Jama said during his reign Garissa county was second to none in healthcare. “We reduced maternal and child mortality rates and expanded our referral hospital. We also increased immunisations and delivered quality services. The former governor however said the sorry state of the county referral hospital angers him. "Patients are forced to buy drugs and even those who are admitted can barely get best services. Water is also not available. These are things we must change and correct when we come back,” he said. Jama also said he had laid down a proper foundation by building permanent classrooms as well as recruiting enough ECDE teachers. “We laid the devolution foundation very well but unfortunately the regime that came after did not follow up on that trajectory. "It is unfortunate that we have gone back, but the good news is that I am coming back as a man who has been tried and trusted,” he said. The candidate said with the current state of affairs it is understandable that people are cynical and distrustful of political promises. "My manifesto is not about petty politics of a 100 days that dazzles for a time, then fizzles out. "Mine is a fresh start and the patient rebuilding and renewing of a county that has suffered five years of neglect and abuse," he said. Jama is the second governor candidate to launch his manifesto after UDA candidate Dekhow Mohamed launched his, two weeks ago. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)