Mathare MP aspirant Kevin Kioko alias Bahati is now claiming his life is in danger after he allegedly received threats from his political foes. While declining a job offer from Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga, Bahati said he is still in the race and would not step down for his opponent as advised. He further claimed that he had been attacked by goons due to his political stand. "I have been receiving threats... Some goons were sent to mishandle me, ripping my Jubilee shirt," he said. He narrated that it started with his opponents wanting him to withdraw from the race, of which, he refused and further declined a job offer by Azimio presidential candidate Raila. "I am fighting for the people of Mathare. I had a job as a musician but the people of Mathare are going through a lot of struggles," he said. He, however, said he would forgive his enemies and soldier on in the race for the MP seat. Bahati was cleared to vie for the seat on the Jubilee ticket, a constituent party of the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party. He made the claims hours after Raila promised him a position in his government should he win the August polls. "Bahati is my child, I will give him work in the government," Raila said on Sunday while on the campaign trail in Rwaraka within Mathare constituency. Bahati and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna have previously engaged in a war of words over the singer's candidature in Mathare. This was after Sifuna suggested that the Jubilee party had reached an agreement with ODM to zone the area and front an ODM candidate. Bahati rubbished the claims and said he would never shelve his ambitions. Raila's offer to Bahati on Sunday was the second time Raila was vouching for the election of his allies by asking their competitors to drop their bids in exchange for state appointments should the Azimio team form the next government. Raila is pushing for six-piece voting in all areas where ODM has fielded candidates. Early this month, the MP aspirant was roughed up while attending the Azimio rally in Mathare. He was forced out of the meeting by top Azimio leaders even before he could address his supporters.