Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua has told junior officers to live within their limits so as to avoid getting into depression. Mbugua said police officers should desist from emulating their colleagues’ lifestyles which make them get tempted to live beyond their limits leading to lots of debts especially bank loans which they can’t service leading to miserable lives with some resorting to ending their own lives. “The problem is that you have just been employed and you want to live like your colleagues, especially seniors. You take hefty loans to drive big vehicles and live lavishly, a lifestyle you can’t sustain,” Mbugua said. He addressed police officers and NGAO officials from Machakos County during the official inauguration of the NSP Police Station in Mlolongo, Machakos County on Friday. Mbugua officially declared the station as Athi River North Subcounty police headquarters with former Athi River sub-county police commander Anderson Njagi as its sub-county police commander. Mbugua was hosted by Machakos county police commander Issa Mohammud. The meeting was attended by all sub-county police commanders, OCS, and Subcounty criminal investigations officers from the entire Machakos County. Athi River sub-county has been subdivided into two with former Yatta sub-county police commander Nancy Njoki as the new Athi River South sub-county police commander, she has taken over Njagi’s office. The police boss told the officers to exercise financial discipline, plan for their expenditures and avoid committing to lots of financial debts which strain them with difficulties in servicing. Most of the police officers' pay slips, Mbugua said, were overstretched. “We are very poor financial managers. The notion that police officers are poorly paid is untrue. We are paid well,” Mbugua said. He said the lowest police officer earns Sh24,000 minus allowances. Allowances such as a house, commuter, and hardship push the pay slips upwards. “I have 44 years in service and I have never taken a loan of more than Sh1.2 million. Some of you have taken a lot of loans from everywhere including banks, microfinance institutions and mobile loaning facilities. Basically, because you want to live beyond your limits. What even takes officers to depression with some committing suicide,” Mbugua said. “Police job isn’t stressful. I couldn’t have managed it if it were stressful. You should plan for your financial expenditures and future to avoid getting into financial problems due to loans you cannot service,” Mbugua said. Mbugua told the officers to develop a culture of saving especially through SACCOs while they are still young in the service. This will enable them to have adequate finances for personal growth and development as they prepare for their retirements. He warned the officers against getting into corrupt dealings to abate justice in favour of criminals while innocent Kenyans suffer. He said all police officers should serve with dignity across the country. Mbugua said the officers should serve citizens across the country without fear or favour and within the National Police Service code of conduct. He warned members of the service against taking political sides and instead be objective and ensure all candidates were secured ahead of the August 9 polls. “Be objective and don’t take sides of politicians or political affiliations. Don’t pronounce publicly your political stands, offer security to all candidates,” Mbugua said.