Two top Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) officials in Trans Nzoia county have kicked up a storm after they endorsed Kiminini Democratic Action (DAP-K) parliamentary candidate. Party officials and members said the move by the two officials to go against the wishes of the party was ill-motivated. "A discussion on this ought to have been called instead of two guys in the name of officials supporting a candidate from a sister party in the coalition," said Eva Nyamogo, a Party official. Speaking on Saturday during a meeting to drum up support for the Party’s Kiminini Parliamentary Candidate Engineer Paul Khisa, Nyamogo asserted that the party had not entered into any pact with anyone to support the Democratic Action Party candidate. She led members and officials in expressing a vote of no confidence in the two officials John Simiyu  ( Secretary ) and Washington Ngesa ( Treasurer), saying they had been compromised and were unfit to hold office. “There have been claims that the two were given Sh200, 000 by the DAP Parliamentary Candidate for Kiminini to support him. If it is true, they must be fired with immediate effect’’, she said. She said the two never consulted the Party Chairman, Saboti MP Caleb Amisi. Party members David Wakoli and Peter Wafubwa dismissed the DAP K Candidate’s endorsement saying the two officials were mere self-seekers out to make cheap gains. Another  ODM member,  Gregory Masilikani hit out at the DAP Parliamentary Candidate Maurice Bissau, telling him to stop using unorthodox means to earn the support of Party members. "AP K Candidate Bisau should be told in black and white that no amount of propaganda will make us change our minds. We will vote for the ODM Candidate no matter what," he said. ODM Parliamentary Candidate Engineer Paul Sitati described the two officials as sellouts who could no longer be trusted with the running of the affairs of the party. "This is  a  wrong  team out to weaken the party, are they able or not?” Engineer Khisa posed to hundreds of voters. He urged ODM members not to accept to be blinded. “I want to ask my supporters and other members who were misled to believe the blatant lies to know that I’m firmly in the race’’, he said. Engineer Khisa said those who had imagined that their propaganda would weaken him were in for a rude shock. "We have rebranded and reloaded our machinery, they will be surprised come August 9,’’ said Engineer Khisa. County ODM Chairlady Dorothy Aliuba said Kimini constituents will be voting for its candidate. "Time has come for us to say the truth as it is, we are not animals to be taken to the slaughterhouse blindly," she said. She said those who are out to make ODM loose seats will no longer be tolerated. Aliuba asked the party top brass led by the Azimio- One Kenya Presidential Candidate Raila Odinga to crack the whip on the two officials. "The two errant members and others who fail to support our candidates in constituencies among them Kiminini must either behave or ship out." Party County Secretary John Simiyu was defended by Treasurer Washington Ngesa who denied the allegations made against them.