Campaigns in Teso North have entered the homestretch as 59 candidates step up the battle to secure MCA slots in the subcounty’s six wards. The subcounty is among the most volatile, politically, in Busia as chances of incumbents retaining their seats are not guaranteed. In 2017 for instance, none of the six MCAs elected in 2013 was re-elected. Pressure is mounting by the day as incumbents flex political muscle in a bid to retain their seats against an emerging generation of young politicians. Out of the six MCAs elected in 2017, five are defending their seats. They include Job Oteba (Ang’urai East) who is vying as an independent candidate following his loss during the ODM primaries, Grace Olita (Ang’urai South, ODM) and Malaba North’s Patrick Omanyala (Wiper). The other two are Malaba Central’s Bernard Papa (Wiper) and his Malaba South counterpart David Kokonya (ODM). County assembly deputy speaker Lawrence Okaal who served in Ang’urai North ward on an ODM party ticket from 2017 opted out of the race to join Nambale MP John Bunyasi as running mate in the race to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong. The pair is sponsored by Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party. Malaba Central and Ang’urai East wards are presenting the highest number of candidates in this year’s polls. Each has 13 aspirants. Ang’urai North has the second-highest number of candidates at 11 while Malaba North and Ang’urai South each has eight contestants. Malaba South has six candidates, the least. In Malaba Central the candidates include incumbent Papa, Ronald Ochalu (ODM), Simon Oruchum (DAP-K), Leonard Karakacha (UDA), Dennis Imaet (Labour Party of Kenya) and James Kang’ara (ANC). Others are Oduor Oyengo and Melvin Otwane, who are both contesting as independent candidates, Chrispinus Omuse (Movement for Democracy and Growth), Takia Mzinza (Farmers Party), Ransley Wesonga (Usawa Kwa Wote), Francis Omala (Jubilee) and Abdikadir Said (United Progressive Alliance). Malaba Central ward is the most competitive due to its geographical location in Teso North. The ward hosts the subcounty’s largest town, Malaba. It also hosts the One-Stop Border Post that is the entry and exit point to East and Central Africa. In Ang’urai East those recently cleared by the IEBC to contest include incumbent Oteba, Moses Mamai (UDA), Dedan Omanyala (Wiper), Chemasuet Kapsundui of ODM, Jared Olubayi (DAP-K), Evans Masai (independent) and David Parapara (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Also in the race are Cleophas Okisai (Maendeleo Democratic Party), Jubilee’s Joel Omia, Grace Chelang’at of Kenya Union Party, National Reconstruction Party’s Mike Ijakaa, Sammy Iworet (Ford Kenya) and Moses Wasimeri (independent). The ward is cosmopolitan on the Eastern part and has a sizeable number of the Luhya and Sabaot from Mt Elgon. In Ang’urai North, 11 candidates were cleared by the IEBC. They are Maurice Chetambe (UDA) who served between 2013 and 2017 before he was elbowed out by Okaal, Alex Oboi (Jubilee), businessman Kenneth Oiria (ODM) and former councillor Reuben Ekirapa and Gerald Ekisa, who are both vying as independent candidates. Others angling to join the county assembly are MDG’s Robert Onyapidi, DAP-K’s Isaac Wamalwa, Wiper’s William Omaset, Dan Ekisa of Kanu, David Ebere and Sylvia Juma. Ebere and Juma are contesting as independents. In Malaba North ward, the candidates are incumbent Omanyala, UDA’s Felix Onyapidi, Quintus Ikamara (MDG) and ODM’s Imwene Ichasi who was defeated in 2017 after serving for one term from 2013. Tobius Emojong of United Green Movement, Vincent Omanyala (Maendeleo Chap Chap), Fredrick Iteba of DAP-K and Jesicah Akware of Jubilee are also fighting to secure the MCA slot. In Ang’urai South, the battle is between incumbent Olita, Samson Osere of Labour Party of Kenya, Aloys Emeje of Maendeleo Chap Chap and former Knut Teso branch Treasurer Joseph Eseme (DAP-K). Others are Dennis Etyang’ of National Reconstruction Alliance, Titus Musungu of UDA, Wiper’s Bramwel Mamai and Humphrey Ijakaa of Devolution Empowerment Party. In Malaba South, which borders Teso South subcounty, incumbent Kokonya is in the race. Kokonya is, however, facing stiff competition from Deputy President William Ruto’s close ally Silas Osheyo (UDA), Boniface Ekada (MDG) and Philip Imaset who served as MCA in the ward between 2013 and 2017 before losing to Kokonya. The other candidates are Fobian Otwane of Kanu and David Omukubwa (DAP-K). Teso North IEBC head Andrew Wetende has urged the candidates to  engage in peaceful campaigns. Edited by A.N