Athletics Kenya has thanked the government for its relentless support during Kenya's failed bid for the 2025 World Athletics Championships. The body said both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed provided all the support needed at every stage of the bid. “AK is grateful to the government, through President Uhuru Kenyatta and Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, for their round-the-clock support to show the seriousness of Kenya’s bid. “Our hearts are indebted to President Uhuru for his assurances to WA that Kenya was ready and eager to host an event of such magnitude.” Kenya missed out on the opportunity after Tokyo was selected to host the global annual event on Thursday. The East Asia city secured the rights after holding off stiff competition from Nairobi, Silesia and Singapore. The decision was rubber-stamped at the Council's meeting in Eugene, just hours before the 18th edition of the World Championships that began on Friday. “We congratulate Tokyo for winning the hosting rights and we are convinced that they will stage a memorable event. Japan is like a second home to many Kenyan runners and we are looking forward to returning to the city where Team Kenya emerged as the best African country at last year’s Olympics,” the body said in a statement. AK said as much as the country felt dejected, the journey had presented many other opportunities. “As Athletics Kenya, it undoubtedly feels like a missed opportunity for Kenya to become the first-ever African country to host such a grand championship. “However, there are many positives to pick from this disappointment; chiefly, the strong partnerships that were forged between different stakeholders to make this dream a reality. AK assured Kenyans the country would continue placing more bids in the future. “As we retreat to the drawing board to analyze our bid, AK believes that it is only a matter of when and not if Kenya will host the World Championship.” Also singled out for praise was the bid committee, which spent many days and nights refining the relevant documents to ensure they were in line with the requirements. The body lauded local journalists for their invaluable contribution along the way. “Our hats are tipped off to the media who used their traditional and social media platforms to publicize Kenya’s bid and showcase our growing reputation as a sporting destination.” AK extolled the various presidents of athletics federations in East and Central Africa for rallying behind Kenya. “Their kind words regarding Kenya’s history as an athletics powerhouse were heartwarming and encouraging to say the least.” AK also extolled Ethiopian long-distance running legend Haille Gebreselassie who rooted for the country. “Despite having competed for so many years against Kenyan runners, it was a hallmark of Pan-Africanism for Gebreselassie to voice his support for our bid. We salute you, sir! AK thanked World Athletics president Sebastian Coe, saying through his goodwill Kenya had hosted several WA major events, including the World Athletics Continental Tour Gold (also known as Kip Keino Classic), and World Under 20 Championships, World Under 18 Championships, and World Cross Country Tour. While confirming that all the members of Team Kenya had arrived safely and in Oregon, AK thanked the government for coming to the rescue of African 100m champion Ferdinand Omanyala to obtain his visa. “We thank the American Embassy for its understanding and dedication to sorting out the debacle.” 