The Kenya National Farmers Federation Garissa branch is now calling on the national and county governments to dedicate resources to improving farming. Speaking to the press in Garissa on Thursday, deputy national chairperson Dubat Amey said the two entities must dedicate themselves to 12 issues after the elections. Among the things they want captured include designating the country’s food, feed and nutrition as a national security matter, support the establishment of a national farmers database, disaggregated in value chain and wards. Others include strengthen the finance, regulatory and policy aspects of climate smart agriculture, invest in new farm technologies, innovations and mismanagement practices. They also want the incoming government to nurture a suitable policy and regulatory environment supportive of farmers access to affordable credit. The farmers should also be able to access crop and livestock insurance and invest in a solid national irrigation infrastructure. The incoming administration should also invest in solid national agricultural and livestock education and training and research system. It should also build and support a system that guarantees affordable farm inputs, enhance the provision of targeted crop livestock, farm forestry, fisheries and aquaculture extension services. They also want the private sector supported to establish a national network of post-harvest handling and storage technologies and facilities. The group further wants the market for Kenyan produce and commodities deepened and expanded. According to Dubat, for a long time, the government has never given the sector the support it much requires, something he said has made them destitute. Dubat, who was flanked by fellow farmers, said the president who will take over should invest in massive irrigation, adding that the country was endowed with huge chunks of land. He said if well utilised, the land will not only make the country food secure, but also produce enough to export to other countries. “The Kenyan farmers are not beggars and will not allow themselves to be treated as such anymore. The agriculture and food sector should have a pride of place on our country’s socioeconomic life,” he said. “All the farmers need is a conducive environment as well as a supportive government architecture to support a thriving agricultural sector in the country." Abdirizack Dubat, an official at Kenaff Garissa branch, said they will use their manifesto as a basis upon which to negotiate with both county and national government on matters that affect farmers. He said this would include sustainable and meaningful agricultural transformation and development in the country. “Farmers constitute a majority of the Kenyan population, and are the main drivers of the agricultural sector. We bear the greatest burden in turning the country’s economy, and are the only hope for the meaningful and sustainable socioeconomic transformation envisaged in Vision 2030,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)