A human rights commission has demanded that the government obeys an order by a regional court to compensate members of the Ogiek community after being displaced from their ancestral land. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights on Thursday said the government was bound by its commitment to the African Court on Human and People’s rights and hence must obey the orders. On June 23 this year, the court ordered the state to compensate the Ogiek community Sh57 million in material damages and Sh100 million in moral damages. It also ordered the government to take all necessary measures, in consultation with the community and its representatives “to identify, delimit and grant collective land title to the community and, by law, assure them of unhindered use and enjoyment of their land.” The Ogiek people approached the court in 2009 after the government issued them with an eviction notice from the Mau forest. The court would rule in their favour eights years later on May 26, 2017 declaring that the state had violated their rights. After the judgement, the government appointed a Multi-Agency Taskforce to advise it on how to implement the court’s decision. The taskforce conducted various public hearing and received memoranda from different communities and state as well as non-state agencies before forwarding its report to the Ministry of Environment in early 2020. Since then, the report has never been acted upon. The commission, through its chairperson Roseline Odede said the government should assure the Ogiek community and all other indigenous ethnic groups that their rights to their ancestral land will be respected. It also needs to assure that they are protected from arbitrary eviction from their land and that they will get all support to enjoy their resources. “The commission calls upon the government of the Republic of Kenya, in line with its obligations under the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, to give effect to the judgment,” she said. The court said its will conduct a hearing within 12 months of delivery of the judgement to review the status of implementation of the decision. “…….. the commission further calls for genuine and meaningful consultation and cooperation in good faith with the Ogiek community with a view to ensure effective and sustainable implementation of the judgment and restoration of their rights as an indigenous community,” Odede said.