Tanzanian authorities are still holding Kenya radio evangelist Julius ole Kuyioni 23 days after his arrest at the Olpusi Moru border between the two countries. Kuyioni, a popular Maa radio evangelist and also a politician, was arrested while on an invited church mission to Loliondo in Tanzania. On Saturday morning, the Maa Unity Agenda leader in East Africa, Jonathan Pasha said Kuyioni is currently holed up at Tourists and Diplomatic Police Station cells in Arusha. “He has been there from July 7 and no charges have been preferred on him. We are doing everything possible, including engaging top clergy in the two countries to secure his release,” said Pasha. Pasha said MUA top officials met with the Narok governor Samuel Tunai over the matter and he is expected from Monday to engage President Uhuru Kenyatta on the same. The MUA leader told the Star that every effort is being mobilised to either cause the Tanzanian authorities to charge Kuyioni or release him unconditionally. “We have written letters to two diplomatic missions in Kenya and Tanzania through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but nothing positive has come out,” said Pasha. Pasha said that justice systems all over the world dictate that a person cannot be held in police custody for a certain period without either being released or being charged in a competent court of law. He said the fundamental rights of Kuyioni, a renowned broadcast preacher, have been infringed. “Kuyioni has not committed any offence that warrants his continued detention in a foreign country,” said Pasha. Narok Senator Ladema Olekina said in a text message to the Star that the Maa Nation is disturbed by the harassment of a law-abiding Kenyan citizen whose current preoccupation is to spread the gospel. “We shall not rest until the Tanzanian authorities release this preacher back to his family,” said Olekina. Kuyioni was arrested during the height of the alleged atrocities in the Ngorongoro area of Tanzania between the local Maasai and their government. The Tanzanian authorities are carrying out relocation exercises of the local communities in Ngorongoro to pave way for tourism hunting. Being a known revivalist, human rights defender, influencer and politician on the border of Kenya and Tanzania, police from across the border could have arrested him for fear that he was headed to cause trouble and anxiety among the Ngorongoro Maasai.