President Uhuru Kenyatta has commended the National Fund for the Disabled of Kenya (NFDK) for helping improving the lives of persons with disabilities. Speaking on Monday, Uhuru said the NFDK Board of Trustees has worked tirelessly in ensuring the needs of persons with disabilities are catered for both in government and in the society. “I congratulate all of you for the great work you have been doing and continue to do to ensure the special needs of persons with disabilities are catered for,” he said. Uhuru cited the mainstreaming of the special education needs of persons with disabilities in the country’s education policy as one of the achievements of the NFDK. The President met members of the NFDK Board of Trustees at State House, Nairobi, where they presented to the head of state their progress report for the last five years. The Board's chairperson Kristina Pratt thanked President Kenyatta for his support in facilitating the NFDK to serve persons with disability and uplifting their lives. “On behalf of the entire disability fraternity, we thank you for the strides made to continually improve the lives of persons with disabilities in this country over your 10-year tenure. You have supported our Fund and you have been a great source of inspiration,” Pratt said. She noted that through Uhuru's patronage, the Fund has increased its annual donation to persons with disabilities from Sh14 million to Sh350 million. “We initiated and successfully implemented flagship projects for the benefit of persons with disabilities, where currently more than 160 projects have been funded. We have also continually improved on the portfolio of vocational tools of trade donated to individual persons with disabilities,” Pratt added. She also thanked Uhuru for creating an environment where persons with disabilities access opportunities to do business with the government through the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) policy. The NFDK Board of Trustees members who attended the meeting included vice-chairperson Peter Nyakiamo, Prof. Julia Ojiambo, Dr. Michael Kiswili, Prof. Francis Kibera, Mrs. Charity Kiilu, Major (Rtd) Marsden Madoka, David Musila, Anne Mugambi, Cecilia Mbaka, Clement Kiteme and Prof. Margaret Kamar. Gender CS Margaret Kobia and the Fund’s CEO Anthony Muli were also present.