Deputy President William Ruto has said President Uhuru Kenyatta is playing politics with the ongoing issuance of title deeds. Ruto said the programme is a decoy aimed at hoodwinking Kenyans into voting for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. “We have a lot of title deeds in our programme that started in 2013. Those titles will be issued to you now because some individuals 'sat' on them in their offices, to use them as a campaign tool,” he said on Tuesday. Ruto spoke in Kitale saying the titles for various regions were ready for distribution years ago. His sentiments come days after President Kenyatta ordered the issuance of title deeds by July 20. The President launched the programme last month and directed all Cabinet Secretaries to liaise with regional commissioners to fast-track the process. The CSs are currently moving across the targeted 42 counties issuing the titles before filing their reports by July 21 as per the directive from the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. The Ministry of Lands started the National Land Tilting programme in 2013 as part of Jubilee’s agenda of solving problems which Kenyans have had in search of crucial documents. The DP assured the residents of Marambach land that under his administration,  none of them will be evicted as has been rooted for by some politicians. “Kenyans are clever and they know they ought to be given these documents because it is their right, so they should stop moving around lying to the people,” he said. The DP said the Kenya Kwanza government will degazzete the land and provide titles to the occupants and purchase one million acres of land to resettle squatters. Ruto also criticised Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa whom he termed ungrateful despite helping him get a job in the governemnt. “Tell Eugene to stop going wild. If it wasn't for me he would be roaming around the streets. I brought him in and gave him a ministerial job because I formed the Jubilee government with Uhuru,” he said. He was accompanied by Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Charles Njagua, Didmus Baraza and Cate Waruguru. Ruto warned Raila against causing chaos if defeated.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris