I know two things about Detective Gundua: He’s with the DCI, and he has no sense of humour. Okay, three things. He’s also a very handsome dude and in his presence, Sophia’s knees turn to jelly. Is that four things? Who cares? But I do care that he’s back in Jiji Ndogo, which makes me a hyena fighting a lion over a kill. No one likes scraps. “Hi. My name is Detective Gundua,” he says in his deep voice. “We know that,” I say. “We also know you’re from DCI, so no need to say that either.” “Sgt Makini, is my presence here making you uncomfortable in any way?” “Uncomfortable? Why would you jump to uncomfortable? You’re not making me uncomfortable. I’m fine, I’m—” “Nervous?” “Nervous? What? Why would I be…? I can’t be nervous every time some handsome guy shows up and my girlfriend—” I glance at her, and yep. She’s leaning against the desk, looking like a meal of brown, delicious chapos, waiting to be rolled and devoured. I should stop thinking like this. “Hello, Sgt Sophia M Kali.” Gundua shakes her hand. He didn’t shake my hand. And he’s shaking hers for way too long. And I don’t like that she’s actually liking it. I stand between them, severing their contact. “I believe you’re here because of the murder suspect we have in custody, right?” Detective Gundua ignores me and looks straight at Sophia. “Good job, Sgt Sophia M Kali. Maybe you should consider applying for a position with the DCI.” “First of all, Sophia and I worked out the clues.” Also, you don’t have to keep calling her by her full name. What’s that all about, anyway? “Also, Sophia is quite happy where she is, and is most definitely not interested in a job with DCI.” “I’ve thought about it,” Sophia says, shredding my heart to pieces. “Maybe you can tell me more once you’re done with our suspect?” “The suspect, yes. Where is he?” “In the cell behind you,” I say a little too loudly than I intended. “Where he’s been all this time.” “Right.” Gundua takes the three steps to our holding cell. “What’s your name?” “Wa Munene,” says the prisoner. “My name is Detective Gundua of—” “He already heard you,” I blurt out. “He was here from the beginning.” Sophia cuts me a glare. “Makini, would you let the man do his job?” “Thank you, Sophia M Kali.” The detective turns to Wa Munene. “I’d like to inform you that anything you say can be used against you in court. Do you understand?” “It doesn’t matter,” Wa Munene says. “It matters that you understand your rights. Do you have a lawyer?” “My father is the chief of Jiji Ndogo.” “Is he a lawyer?” “He comes to all my cases. He knows all the lawyer stuff. Even knows the name of that blind woman of law. The one with the measuring things.” “Which woman?” “Her name is Prudence. Jury’s Prudence. I bet you didn’t know that.” Wa Munene laughs. Gundua turns to us. “Is he okay? Any history of mental problems?” “He’s crazy Chief’s son,” I say with a laugh. “Does that count?” Gundua goes back to the suspect. “You’re accused of shooting—” “I did it!” “What?” “I shot the old bastard. Boom! Boom! Right in the chest.” “Are you confessing to murder?” “It wasn’t murder,” Wa Munene says seriously. “It was an act of love for my beloved Sophia.” Gundua stands. “That was easy.” “Way too easy,” I say. “He’s up to something.”