Kenya Kwanza leaders on Saturday intensified their attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta over what they termed as his issuance of threats to UDA leaders for supporting deputy president William Ruto. Led by UDA presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua, the leaders asked the president to retire peacefully. Gachagua said the president had only eight days to pack his belongings at Sagana State Lodge and leave the Nyeri people alone. “Pack your belongings and go so that the state lodge can be occupied by deputy president William Ruto after August 9,” he said. He said he has worked for Uhuru for over twenty years helping him throughout the period until he became president but turned against him after winning. The president, he said,  had him charged on trumped-up charges and finally had his money taken by the state He was referring to the Friday move by the court to order the seizure of over Sh200 million in Gachagua’s Rafiki Microfinance Bank by the state. The court ruled that the money is a proceed of corruption. Gachagua said Uhuru should not be angry that he is going home as that is the constitution which dictates that he has to leave after serving for two terms. National assembly speaker Justin Muturi said they have information the president has been holding meetings with elders and leaders at his Gicheha farm in Nakuru where he issued threats to the leaders. “We have seen you call elders and leaders to your private farm in Nakuru, Gicheha Farm. We have heard you issue threats against Rigathi Gachagua, Ndindi Nyoro and Kimani Ichung’wa. Their only crime is to stand steadfast and firmly behind William Ruto,” he said. “I want to say it here that it is absolutely reckless, irresponsible and unbecoming of the president of the Republic of Kenya to go issuing threats against his citizens whom he has a constitutional mandate and responsibility to protect,” he said. Muturi said they will not take the issue of the president issuing threats to other people lightly because of their political stand. Governor Mutahi Kahiga called on residents to continue supporting Gachagua saying all that he was going through it was a result of trumped-up charges by Uhuru’s government meant to taint him. Kahiga said they recognize Gachagua as the Nyeri Kingpin. They spoke at Chaka Township in Kieni East, Nyeri County, on Saturday where they had accompanied the Kenya Kwanza running mate during his campaign trail in Nyeri county. On Friday, the deputy President alleged that the president was threatening him and asked him to leave him alone. The DP said he would deal with Uhuru but asked him to spare his children. Present were MPs Patrick Maruru (Laikipia West), Tetu’s Gichuhi Mwangi and Nyeri women representative Rahab Mukami among others.