Gender Based Violence, HIV and child marriages are a threat to the future of the current generation, the population council has said. Northeastern National Council for Population Development regional coordinator Moses Ouma said the council identified the triple threat as the top challenges facing the youth across the country. He said there is need to strengthen county committees in the fight against GBV, HIV and early marriages, if the war against the three vices is to be won. Ouma spoke on Monday during the World Population Day celebration at Garissa University. He said the triple threats were real and needed to be tackled head-on, failure to which the future of the current generation would be jeopardised. The official urged the county committees to incorporate other key players for the war against the triple threats to be sustained and won. “Coming up with these committees is one thing but making sure they are active is another altogether. These triple threats are real and the earlier we confront them the better. Each one of us has a role to play,” he said. Ouma said 10 per cent of Garissa teens aged between 15 and 19 are either pregnant or have given birth to their first baby. “This is how serious the problem of teenage pregnancy is in Garissa and Northeastern. Cultural practices especially FGM and illiteracy are to blame for escalating the problems,” he said. The official said population is a cross-cutting issue that directly relates to development. He said the fact that population is increasing rapidly compared to declining resources warrants a need to increase awareness in the community. Garissa deputy county commissioner Solomon Chesut said members of the public, especially the rural folk, should constantly be educated on far reaching effects of the triple threats. He said chiefs, village elders and the nyumba kumi have a big role to play in not only ending the vices but also disseminating the right information to the public. “We are law enforcement officers and the law is very clear when it comes to practicing some of these harmful cultural practices. “Any administration officer found abetting them will only have him or herself to blame since serious administrative measures will be taken against them,” Chesut said. County director for Special Programmes Abdinoor Hussein said it is important that all stakeholders put their heads together and confront the issues head on. He said issues of population control should be overemphasised in regions like Northeastern as the available resources are scarce and often lead to conflict. Hussein said the challenges vary from one county to another. He said teenage pregnancy and FGM were rampant in Northeastern and the numbers are worrying, hence the need for stakeholders to make the right response and arrest the situation. “There is no single person who is placed to end these harmful practices. It is a collective responsibility that involves the sheikhs, elders, the civil society, the youth and our mothers. Everybody should be involved,” Hussein said. The director said the national and county governments together with relevant players must come together and provide opportunities for the youth. He said this can be done through proper planning and prioritising programmes that will empower the youth. Hussein said the aim of celebrating World Population Day is to draw the public to the importance of population issues and the need to curb them. He said this year’s Kenyan theme is ‘ending the triple threats.’ "It was customised from the World Population Day 2022 theme of ‘A World of Eight Billion: Towards a Resilient Future for All — Harnessing Opportunities and Ensuring Rights and Choices for All,’" the director said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)