Trail Blazers' right attacker Moses Sialo wants the team to shake off the underdog tag ahead of the national men's volleyball playoffs at Nyayo this weekend. The newbies lost against the General Service Unit, Kenya Prisons and Kenya Ports Authority in the regular season. The trio are all in the playoffs alongside the Blazers, who are ready to write off the wrongs and make amends ahead of the play-offs. Based on the stats, the Ruaraka-based side are outsiders to lift the title in their maiden season but Sialo has asserted that it won't be business as usual for the so-called favourites. "We might be a new team in the playoffs but for the players, it's not our first time playing at this level. We've been there before with different teams and we have the necessary experience needed to light up the playoffs." "It's good that we lost to our opponents. The defeats were a learning curve and we have now polished our weaknesses to counter our opponents. What's remaining is to go for every single available point." Trail Blazers upset the formbook, finishing fourth at the expense of regulars the Kenya Defence Forces. "Qualifying was not by luck and we will have to prove that by going one step better. The season has been tough with rigorous training and it was not a  mean feat qualifying for the first time." Sialo was named the best attacker during the 2017 playoffs when he turned up for the Cooperative Bank. "I hope to do much better with the help of my teammates this time around. The most important thing is to play well. I would be the happiest person if we won the league and missed out on personal awards." His exploits in the courts saw him join Equity Bank in 2018 before moving to Rwanda Energy Group in October of the same year. The 27-year-old won the league with the Rwandese side in 2019 to cap off a perfect year.  Sialo previously also enjoyed a three-month trial spell in Japan. "We are putting our best foot forward. The spirit in the camp is better and we only need to push harder in the remaining few days."    