It was a nostalgic moment for Interior PS Karanja Kibicho on Saturday when he visited his former primary school during the institution’s 50th anniversary. Kibicho was a pupil at Kathaka Primary School in Ndia, Kirinyaga county, between 1975 and 1981. The PS reminisced about both the good and tough moments at the institution as he called on stage his former teachers and introduced them. He narrated of the day he got a good beating from one of his teachers for misspelling the word "government". Kibicho said spelling the word "government" was a tough mental task for any pupil, more so because of some silent letters and the mismatch between the spelling and pronunciation of the word. He said on that day, he had copied the word correctly from an old newspaper only for his teacher to doubt his capability to get the word right and ordered him to write it on the blackboard. “I often misspelt the word because of the silent ‘n’ and that used to land me in a lot of trouble with my teacher. On that day, I decided to play smart and copy the word from a newspaper. Little did I know that my teacher would later outsmart me by ordering me to write the word on the blackboard. I misspelt it and got a tough beating.” Kibicho thanked his former teachers for their dedication in triggering his passion for education and moulding him into a responsible individual. “Their guidance and toughness cannot go unnoticed. I'm who I am because of their effort and dedication in undertaking their responsibility seriously. I cannot thank them enough,” he said. The PS further impressed on teachers and parents to be good role models who can be emulated by the young ones. He said the future will be shaped by the habits their children pick from them, thus urging them to inculcate good morals into them. “Be a good example to your children. Rise above mediocrity and show them through speech and actions that hard-work pays.” The PS also urged parents to actively participate towards developing schools. He said they were an integral part of stakeholders in the education sector and have a vital role in ensuring that their sons and daughters learn in a conducive environment with proper infrastructure. To the pupils, he advised them to take their education seriously. He said education is the key that unlocks better things in life as it is the greatest equaliser of all time. “We need an educated society so we can register progress as a nation. Do not underestimate the power of education for it is the only greatest equaliser that has the capability to unshackle you from the yoke of illiteracy and poverty,” Kibicho said. The PS affirmed his commitment to continually overseeing the progress of his former school both academically and development-wise. Kibicho gave a donation of Sh1 million for the construction of a proper ablution block for pupils at the school. Edited by A.N