The government on Thursday extended the dusk-to-dawn curfew in Kerio Valley region for another month, despite residents' pleas to lift it. It will extend until August 7, two days to the general election. The curfew affects areas in Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo counties affected by banditry. The 30-day curfew was imposed last month by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. Rift Valley regional commissioner Maalim Mohammed said the extension was meant to ensure full implementation of  measures to end attacks. More than 300 extra security officers have been deployed to the region. Banditry has claimed more than 110 lives in six months. “We still have some work to do so we ensure complete safety of our people in Kerio Valley. That is why we have extended the curfew," Mohammed said. He said the curfew had been strictly enforced. The security situation has improved somewhat in the past three weeks. Matiang'i had visited the region on June 8. Mohammed said police have stepped up security measures, including curfew enforcement and patrols as part of security for the general election. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said the measures have improved security and should be sustained throughout the elections period. “We want total safety in Kerio Valley so our people will freely be able to participate in the elections," Tolgos said. Some residents said the curfew should be revised before the polls. "We appreciate the measures to restore security but the curfew should be removed and instead extra officers deployed," resident Paul Chemweno said. Residents had expressed fears that insecurity would undermine the election but the government additional safety measures were being put in place. Mohammed said security would remain tight in the region throughout the election period. Police in the last three weeks recovered more than 35 illegal guns and arrested more than 130 people suspected to be involved in banditry. Security teams recovered guns in villages in Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot that have been worst-hit by raids. “We urge all residents to adhere to the law so we have safety to enable everyone to engage in productive work," Mohammed said. "Banditry is so regressive." Security teams had profiled more than 350 people suspected to be involved. “We will hunt for all of them so they face the law," the regional commissioner said. “Those engaging in criminal acts like banditry in Kerio Valley should either surrender or we will get them at all costs and using all means possible. Banditry must be stopped," Mohammed said. (Edited by V. Graham)