DCI detectives are investigating an incident where a government official was found dead at her house in Kirinyaga county. A sleuth privy to the investigations told the Star that Kirinyaga East assistant county commissioner Jacqueline Waliaula's body was retrieved from her house on Wednesday morning. "Preliminary report has it that she vomited a bit yesternight and said she would go to the hospital today," the detective who requested for anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter said. The source said the deceased's body was discovered in her bedroom by a nanny who later informed one of their neighbours, a police officer. "Her nanny woke up to her duties of preparing breakfast but suspected something was wrong as she hadn't left her room. She decided to go to her room only to find her lying on the bed on her belly. She called their neighbour, a police officer, and it was at this point that she was confirmed dead," he said. Kirinyaga county commissioner Moses Ivuto said the the Directorate of Criminal Investigations was probing the matter. "The DCI has taken over and areinvestigating the incident," Ivuto told the Star on phone on Thursday. He said a postmortem was scheduled for today (Thursday) to establish cause of the death. "We are waiting for pathologists to conduct a postmoterm on the body at Jamii Hospital in Karatina today. The postmoterm report will be issued by the government pathologist," Ivuto said. The deceased was heavily pregnant at the time of her death. The cause of her death is yet to be established. Her demise comes a few days after another senior administrator died under similar circumstances. Mathira East Deputy County Commissioner Ibrahim Muchangi collapsed in his house and was pronounced dead at a hospital a few days ago. According to a postmortem report conducted on Muchangi's body at Jamii Hospital mortuary on July 25, he died of cardiac arrest. "The preliminary report released by pathologists indicated that Ibrahim Kiarie Muchangi suffered a sudden cardiac death occasioned by the narrowing of the coronary arteries that supply blood to the heart thus compromising its functionality," the report seen by the Star read in part.