Survivors of sexual violence in Kenya will not be caught off-guard by election-related sexual gender-based violence. Through the Wangu Kanja Foundation that convenes the Survivors of Sexual Violence in Kenya Network, they say they are ready to monitor and respond to cases of sexual violence across the country. In a press briefing in Nairobi on Wednesday, Wangu Kanja, founder of the Wangu Kanja Foundation, said that Kenya’s history of election violence accompanied by SGBV should not be underestimated. “Kenya has a long history of election-related sexual violence. We will also ensure that all duty bearers are held accountable in ensuring that survivors are able to access quality services and justice is accorded all survivors,” she said. She said that the Survivors of Sexual Violence in Kenya Network was established to amplify survivors’ voices around the country and thus they had convened to articulate their own issues. Noni Mbugguss, the Network’s coordinator in Kwale County, said that although they were hoping for peace, it was important to be prepared just in case. “In the sad event sexual violence does occur we urge the state to ensure that survivors have timely access to emergency medical care and treatment, and legal services,” she said. Additionally, she added, law enforcement must ensure any reported perpetrator is held accountable for their actions. “We singularly call upon the state security agents to uphold the rule of law in their security operations and deployments during the election period, and desist from violating the citizens that they are mandated to protect,” she said. Johnstone Abwao, a Member of the Survivors of Sexual Violence Network, called for Zero Tolerance of sexual violence in Kenya. “We explicitly say never again will anyone women, men, youth and children’s bodies be used as battlefields to wage political wars. We demand all Kenyans be treated with dignity and respect as per the provisions of the Kenyan constitution,” he said. He urged all political leaders to exercise restraint in their utterances to prevent fueling the public into violence. They further called on the government to operationalize the Generation Equality Forum Commitment to set up the Gender-Based Violence fund to support survivors to rebuild their lives after going through the horror of such human rights violations.