Jubilee Party's Evans Kakai got a big boost in his bid to unseat Kabuchai  MP Majimbo Kalasinga after DAP-K, ODM and independent aspirants from the region threw their weight behind him. Kakai said the Kabuchai MP race is now a rematch between him and Kalasinga of Ford Kenya. Kakai, who vied for the same seat during the Kabuchai by-election on the UDA ticket but came second, said he is now prepared to defeat Kalasinga. “The by-election with MP Kalasinga was a litmus test. This time round I have corrected everything to ensure I win the Kabuchai seat and serve my people,” he said. Kakai spoke on Wednesday during a meeting with DAP-K delegates in Kabuchai. DAP-K subcounty chairman Patrick Wepondi said the delegates decided to abandon the DAP-K candidate after realising he is "a weak candidate". Former Nakuru deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi is the DAP-K candidate in the race. “Today we have made the final decision that all Azimio la Umoja team in Kabuchai constituency will back Evans Kakai of Jubilee because we don’t want to divide our votes,” Wepondi said. Kakai pledged to support business operators in Chwele market. “I'm an expert in the issues of finance and if given an opportunity to represent Kabuchai, I promise to use my knowledge wisely and help my people,” Kakai said. Joseph Makana, Kakai’s campaign coordinator told the Star that he is content with the campaigns that Kakai has done in Kabuchai. Wepondi also urged Ford Kenya party leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula to stop imposing Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on the people. Lusaka is seeking to unseat Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati in next month's election. The Senate Speaker was Bungoma governor between 2013 and 2017 “This time round we are going to reject Senator Wetang’ula’s directive of imposing some candidates on us. In 2017, he told us that Lusaka is corrupt, how come he is now telling us to vote for him? We won’t vote for Lusaka instead we are backing  Wangamati’s re-election,” he said.  Edited by A.N