Azimio la Umoja executive secretary Raphael Tuju now claims that Deputy President William Ruto used the parliamentary leadership to blackmail President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking on Wednesday, Tuju said former National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale and Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman Kimani Ichungwah were also part of the scheme. According to the former Jubilee secretary general, this is what pushed Uhuru to seek an alliance with his two-time competitor. "It was better to work with an honest Raila who would be ready to work with him without demanding anything in his government and support him in parliament, instead of a Ruto who at every possible corner, he blackmailed the president. He used the speakers, he used Duale, he used Ichungwah," Tuju said on Citizen TV. "The moment the handshake took place, many of us in government breathed a sigh of relief because previous to that he was always blackmailing the president. He was controlling parliament through Duale and of course speakers were on his side. I'm I lying? those speakers are now in UDA." Tuju noted that the President was forced to choose between a shark and a crocodile (William Ruto and Raila Odinga), and he made the choice. He insisted that Ruto becoming president of Kenya would be disastrous, given the number of times he has been implicated in scandals. "This is not an election about manifestos. Manifestos you can write anything you want to write. There was something in the manifesto called a laptop, I don't want to go there. So, it is not about manifestos, it is about the character of the man we are dealing with." On Wednesday, Tuju in an interview claimed that the DP was paid billions to support President Uhuru's presidential bids. He insisted that the DP never supported the President willingly, as he had publicly claimed. "He was paid. Let the people of Mt Kenya not think Ruto supported Uhuru willingly, this is a person of blackmail. I can confirm before a court of law how," he told Inooro FM. Ruto, however, trashed the remarks by Tuju. Through his director of communications Emmanuel Talam, he said: "Because he seems to know more he should provide receipts for payment". "It is amazing how Tuju never gets exhausted being used and dumped by deep state agents to fight DP. He should take time off and reflect on whether it's worth it," he said. Tuju said that he was willing to give proof of his allegations in a court of law. "If it is necessary for me to repeat this in a court of law, I will because I have the evidence and it is not only me who has the evidence do find out from a lot of people in our circles, they'll tell you that there was no way Ruto was going to give anything for free," he said.