The football fraternity in Trans Nzoia county is mourning the loss of one of its stars following the death of former Sofapaka midfielder Wisdom Naya. Former St. Anthony Boys High School Principal Cosmas Nabungolo who helped mentor Naya said the demise of the talented player has been devastating. "Naya was a disciplined student who was committed to curriculum with the dream of doing professional soccer in Europe. He was a pillar to St. Anthony’s Solidarity School team and spirit, God rest his soul in eternal glory," Nabungolo said. Naya, 19 died on Friday morning at the Crystal Cottage Hospital in Kitale where he had gone for checkup. He succumbed to complications that arose from the amputation of his left leg due to cancer which eventually spread to his lungs and throat. "He was a very talented player whose life has been cut short," he said. Nabungolo, who currently heads St. Peter’s Mumias Boys said in an interview with the Star that scouts from Europe wanted to recruit Naya in one of the top teams. He said Trans Nzoia county and the entire country had lost a talent that is unrecoverable. The school head urged the government to support the family of the late footballer and ensure he gets a befitting sendoff. "Time has come for the government to utilise the Sports Fund to help players and their families in times of need.  They should also be given treatment in government hospitals as a way of appreciating their efforts," he said. Naya joined Sofapaka Football Club in 2019 but was forced out of action by a knee injury. Nabungolo described him as the most valuable player during the 2018 Copa Coca Cola under 16 Africa Cup of Nations held in Nakuru. "Naya played a starring role leading to the win for Kenya.  That was victory for St. Anthony Solidarity team and Kenya as a country. We are indebted to Wisdom Naya for his efforts," Nabungolo said. Former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya also mourned the late Naya and condoled with his family. "On my own behalf and that of the entire Democratic Action Party of Kenya I want to send a message of condolence to the family of the late Wisdom Naya," he said. Natembeya, who is in the race to succeed outgoing Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba, said that he will ensure that a proactive approach in developing soccer is put in place if he gets elected to office. Natembeya said Naya's death was a big blow not only to Trans Nzoia but to the whole country. He affirmed that all sporting activities will be fully sponsored by his government to make those participating have gainful employment. Naya's mother, Dinah Cherop, mourned her son saying she had lost a pillar of the family. "He has gone too early at a time when we as a family needed him most," she said. Dinah said her son had been diagnosed with cancer tumor on his knee and started chemotherapy sessions at the Eldoret Oncology Hospital and was referred to India for amputation.