Angela Okutoyi recently made history by becoming the first Kenyan to be crowned champion at the Grand Slam, the world’s most prestigious tennis competition. She stunned the world with a brilliant performance at the Wimbledon Open Doubles Juniors Championship, where she and her partner, Rose Marie Nijkamp from the Netherlands, won in the final. The Wimbledon win was the culmination of her triumphant march in major tennis tournaments in Kenya and abroad, including being named the 2021 Africa Junior champion. In January this year, Okutoyi was named the Sports Personality of the Month (SPOM), an award sponsored by LG Electronics in conjunction with the Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK), having performed very well at the Australian Grand Slam. Indeed, the teen tennis sensation has demonstrated that Kenya, globally recognized as an athletics powerhouse, has a rich pool of talent in diverse sports disciplines. Okutoyi is among a galaxy of emerging young Kenyan champions taking the sporting world by storm, alongside rally drivers Maxine Wahome, McRae Kimathi, and Hamza Anwar. Others are athletes Ferdinand Omanyala, Hellen Obiri, Evans Chebet, Peres Jepchirichir, basketballer Tylor Ongwae Okari and boxer Elly Ajowi, to name a few. The magnificent achievements of these youngsters demonstrate the need to identify, nurture and promote sporting talent across diverse disciplines. There is also a need to unlock and foster the high level of sporting aptitude among Kenyan youth to world-class standards. Beyond recreation, sports can play an instrumental role in creating employment, livelihood and business opportunities for youth. Investing in sports has many benefits for young people as it helps them actualize their potential in life. In addition, sports as a multi-billion-dollar global industry can benefit our young people with the right partnerships by bringing together government, private sector and other stakeholders. Fortunately, aspiring stars in various sports disciplines have exemplary role models in the likes of Okutoyi to inspire and guide them as they grow their talents and careers. Participating in sporting activities is also hailed as a way of promoting the social, emotional and mental well-being of individuals.