Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has lashed out at Deputy President William Ruto following his attack on the Inspector general of police Hillary Mutyambai. The DP on Thursday labelled Mutyambai as the "most incompetent" police IG in Kenya's history while expressing doubt about the command of police ahead of the polls. "We doubt the command. We have a serious problem with the command of the police. We have the most incompetent Inspector General of the Police," he said. "In fact, the current IG is the president of Kenya (Uhuru Kenyatta), who is the leader of Azimio. He spoke during a meeting with the delegation of the International Republican Institute (IRI) and the National Democratic Institute (NDI) at Karen. Addressing a rally in Kisii on Friday, Matiang'i went bare-knuckle on the DP accusing him of being bitter with Mutyambai because of failed "business deals". "Hii mambo ambayo Mutyambai anatusiwa hapa kuambiwa ati he is the most incompetent police IG we have had. The only problem with Mutyambai is that he refused to buy police boots for Sh13,000 that were being sold by your (Ruto) friends. Mutyambai accepted to buy boots for Sh2,900," he said. "The problem with Mutyambai is refusing to buy bulletproof vests for  900 dollars sold by your (Ruto) friends and opted to buy it directly from manufacturers. That is the frustration that is pushing you to abuse our inspector general of police." The Interior CS went on to disparage the DP saying he has failed the leadership test by chiding public servants before foreigners. Matiang'i said the move was wrong adding that it was based on frustrations after the police IG failed to toe the line in the alleged business deals. "If you want to be a leader of this country, how do you attack public servants before foreigners? You attack our police IG  before foreigners who visit you at public office?" Ruto met with IRI and NDI to discuss the Pre-Election Assessment Mission ahead of the elections. The groups were led by former Nigerian President, Goodluck Jonathan.