National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has called off a Special sitting scheduled for Wednesday. He said the Government printer as of Tuesday 2:30 pm had not gazetted the sitting for unknown reasons. " It is worth noting that the Government printer has declined and failed to gazette the Special sitting for reasons not explained to us, despite the requisite documentation being forwarded to his office in good time last week," Muturi stated. A showdown was expected in Parliament when the MPS were set to debate the  County Governments Additional Allocations Bill 2022, and the contentious  Huduma Bill 2021. They were to also ratify of Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Kenyan Government and the Governments of the Republic of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. Deputy President William Ruto’s troops have opposed key sections of the proposed law that anchors President Uhuru Kenyatta’s National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS) flagship project. The Bill is among the business scheduled for the special sitting called by Speaker Justin Muturi as well as consideration of the bill unlocking conditional grants to counties. Debate on the Huduma Bill was not concluded in the last sitting of the National Assembly after Kenya Kwanza, UN bodies and human rights lobbyists flagged grey areas. MPs allied to the Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya coalition had already said they will boycott the special sitting. Leader of Minority John Mbadi argued that the Speaker had recalled members unprocedurally since a Special Sitting cannot be convened without gazettement as stipulated in the Standing Orders and as per the House Procedures. “I want to advise our members not to attend any Special Sitting and to ignore any further communication in regard to the sitting,” Mbadi said in a statement. In his communication, Speaker Muturi argued that Standing Order 38 requires the publication of the Order paper showing the business proposed to be transacted by the House at least 12 hours before the House meets. However, since the government printer had failed to gazette the special sitting, he was compelled to call off the special sittings to allow consultations with the Executive . “In light of the foregoing, this is to notify you that the special sittings of the house that were scheduled to be held tomorrow, Wednesday ,13 July , 2022 stand cancelled.Any inconvenience caused to the House and the Members is highly regrettable,” Muturi stated The National Assembly adjourned indefinitely on June 9, ahead of the August 9 general election as the curtains on the 12th parliament came down.