Independent presidential hopeful Reuben Kigame has termed as violation of his dignity IEBC's decision to appeal a court ruling that allowed him to be cleared to vie. Taking on his twitter shortly after the Appellate court reverted a High Court ruling that directed IEBC to consider his papers, the preacher said he doesn't deserve this kind of treatment. "I have done my best to be patient and respectful to our government, IEBC and Chebukati as my returning officer for the presidential election," KIgame said. "But I am not sure I deserve what this country is doing to me! How can they appeal against Monday’s court ruling? Where is my dignity? he paused. On Monday, the High Court directed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to consider Kigame's papers for clearance to contest the presidency on August 9. In the judgment delivered by Justice Athony Mrima, the court said Kigame demonstrated exemplary effort in complying with the requirements, and that the list of supporters he presented would suffice. "He shall therefore not be disqualified on account of insufficient number of signatures of his supporters,” Mrima said. But the electoral agency appealed the decision on Wednesday citing far-reaching implications on a number of processes and steps already taken. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said it will take the commission another 30 days to include Kigame’s name on the presidential ballot. “The said processes, subject to availability of the budget, require a minimum of 30 days, yet we are at 19 days to the general election,” Chebukati said in a statement. IEBC also said it would be an expensive state of affair if Kigame's name were to be included on the ballot as it would incur an additional Sh971 million. “The printer of the ballot papers will have to redesign the printing template to include the new candidate and his running mate,” Chebukati said. The commission further argued that Kigame's failure to submit the required 48,000 signatures of supporters from 24 majority counties resulted in the nullity of his presidential papers. But Kigame decried this as a violation of his rights and called on President Uhuru Kenyatta's intervention. "How can State House be silent about the violation of my rights as a citizen in the glare of the international community? How can the Attorney General be silent at this time? Kigame paused. He also roped in judiciary's top leadership, civil society and the law Society of Kenya. "How can our Chief Justice be silent? What’s going on? Where is LSK? Where is civil society?"