Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has called for political tolerance ahead of the polls. The ODM leader said politics should not make Kenyans turn against each other urging electorates to be more tolerant of divergent opinions before and after the elections. The former Prime Minister spoke when he took his vote-hunt to Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet, where he was forced to cut short his speech in April this year after rowdy youths heckled him. “In politics, you must learn to listen to the opponent, politics is not war. You have the vote with you and on the voting day, you will cast your vote for your preferred candidate. That is democracy,” Raila said. “We are all brothers and sisters, remember there will be Kenya even after August 9.” Raila urged his competitors to be ready to congratulate the winner promising to do the same in a free and fair election. He asked the region to back his candidature saying the communities stand to benefit a lot from Azimio's manifesto if the coalition wins. Raila said he will prioritise the security of the region and ensure normalcy is restored and the local communities co-exist peacefully. “We will have a conversation with the Pokot, Turkana, Marakwet and Tugen to find a lasting solution to this insecurity,” he said. Raila called on the residents to embrace peace and shun banditry attacks which have led to the loss of innocent lives and livestock. He said the region will continue to lag and will never experience sustainable development with the rampant insecurity. His administration, he said, will consider disarmament of the communities to flush out all illegal firearms in the wrong hands as a way of ending the perennial banditry that has been a big nuisance in the area. Raila addressed campaign rallies across three counties in William Ruto’s North Rift backyard. They included West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo. The three counties collectively have 714,963 registered voters according to the current Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission records. Accompanying Raila were Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo, Moi-era head of Civil Service Sally Kosgei, Tabitha Sei, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Mukhisa Kituyi and Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shaban. As Raila was pitching for Azimio in Ruto’s backyard, his running mate was in Nyeri drumming support for the ticket. From the North Rift the Azimio brigade heads to Bungoma and Trans Nzoia on Friday, areas that have emerged as battlegrounds going by the recent opinion polls. Raila will pitch tent in Muranga on Saturday, the home county of his new supporter Governor Mwangi wa Iria. The ODM boss is expected to officially welcome the chairman of Usawa Party to Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance Coalition Party.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris