National Olympic Committee of Kenya President Paul Tergat wants athletes in the Commonwealth Games team to be patient as they seek to become world beaters. Tergat is regarded as one of the most accomplished long-distance runners of all time having won a record five straight IAAF World Cross Country Championships titles (1995 to 1999). The two-time World Half Marathon champion said success doesn't happen overnight and it's only through failure that one can rise up and start all over again and push themselves to achieve the set goals. "When you are selected to represent the country, you are among the lucky few out of the millions of Kenyans to carry the national flag. There are lots of expectations on your back but do not allow the burden of expectation to weigh you down." "My first Olympics participation in Atlanta 1992 did not go as planned but that did not deflate my ambition of conquering the world in subsequent years. "I told myself after that heartbreak that one day I want to be among the people who make decisions in the International Olympic Committee IOC. Now I am here, did I give up?" asked Tergat, whose intensive rivalry with Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia stretched him to his limits back in the days. Tergat was speaking during the unveiling of sponsorship for Team Kenya at the Kasarani Indoor Arena on Thursday. He added: "As long as you have a vision and strategy, you will always succeed in whatever you do. As much as I lost my first one, I ended up winning on all platforms. We didn't have much information as you do today and, therefore,  you have every reason to write and break many records. There's always a reward for doing your best. Giving up is never an option." Tergat won the 2010 Abebe Bikila Award in recognition of his long-distance achievements, becoming the first Kenyan male winner. "Being a member of LOC, we have to work in unison to drive sports to the best ever level. Our joy is seeing athletes succeed. Remember, it takes many years for an athlete to reach the elite level."