Gunmen believed to al Shabaab militants vandalised a communication mast in Malkamari, Mandera, over the weekend. Security officials said they suspect the mast was destroyed by a bomb set by militants. Police guarding the mast engaged the unknown number of attackers before they escaped to the Kenya-Ethiopia border. No injury was reported in the latest incident. Police believe the attackers may have been facilitated by some residents but investigations are ongoing. The attacks have however affected communication in the poorly manned Kenya -Somalia border regions. Northeastern police boss George Seda said they have deployed more police officers to pursue the attackers who fled towards the border. The terrorists have been targeting security installations despite ongoing security operations near the Kenya-Ethiopia-Somalia border. Insecurity has affected the education sector, forcing tens of teachers who are non-residents to leave. Other professionals also escaped amid mounted security operations. Last Thursday, three road construction workers were injured when a vehicle they were travelling in was hit by an explosive device in Mandera. Police and survivors said the incident happened at Dadach Qatarow between Ires Kinto and Domog along Wargadud- Takaba Road. The workers belonging to Frontier Construction Company were driving towards Wargadug when they ran over an Improvised Explosive Device. The bomb set the car fire. The workers complained of multiple injuries especially on their legs and hands. Police who responded to the scene said they did not find those behind the incident. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from militants who are at times aided by residents. Al Shabaab terrorists have been attacking Mandera and Garissa counties after breaching security zones. The terrorists have been planting explosives on the routes used by the security agencies. The terror activities often leave dozens of civilians and security officials injured and dead. The area is near the Somalia border and the militants usually cross at will and stage attacks before escaping back. Somalia has not had a stable government after the fall of Siad Barre in 1991. Kenyan troops are in Somalia to pursue and suppress the activities of the terror group. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)