Siaya Senator James Orengo on Monday promised to use any means possible to hold the IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati accountable for the integrity of the 2022 general poll. He lambasted IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati, saying he must be careful not to mess up with the 2022 presidential election. Orengo said Chebukati is glossing over some crooks within the elections commission who are determined to subvert the will of the people. He said that he will use either the law or "the highway" to ensure that the integrity of the vote is not compromised. “I, Orengo, know how to apply the law but if the law won’t work then we will use force,” he warned. He was speaking in reference to the matter of three Venezuelans who were nabbed with poll-related materials in the country under unclear circumstances. He wants Chebukati probed over what he knows about the foreigners as he is not immune to the law by virtue of his position. Orengo said that bungling the elections in favour of some interests is dangerous and will cause a revolution. “Stealing votes is like fuelling a revolution. We, for sure, won’t allow it to happen again,” he threatened. The legislator said that he will hold Chebukati accountable in the interest of the electorate and Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga. He told Chebukati to be wary of how the 2017 presidential election was nullified by the Supreme Court of Kenya based on “illegalities and irregularities” of the poll process. The IEBC must be transparent at the poll preparation stage; that is when we will agree to participate in the election, he said. Orengo is of the opinion that Odinga has been denied the presidency four times before and that they won’t allow the thievery during his fifth stab. He recounted that a gallant son of Ugenya, Chris Musando who worked as the IEBC ICT manager in 2017 was killed because of crooks at the poll body who are ever determined to steal elections. No one has ever been held accountable for his death. Also, the IEBC never opened the 2017 server for Kenyans to clearly see who won with the majority of the votes. Orengo says that it is the same kind of opaqueness that Chebukati and his team have again started to manifest. Apart from Musando, Orengo said that the Luo community has lost enough of its intelligent sons, such as Argwings Kodhek, Odhiambo Mbai, Tom Mboya and Robert Ouko and won’t allow it anymore. He was speaking at Mindhine polytechnic village in Gem Constituency, Siaya county where he drummed up support for his Siaya county gubernatorial bid.