Former Kenya Sevens' skipper Andrew Amonde has retired from club duties with KCB. The talismanic powerful forward played his last game for the Thika-Road side during the Kakamega Sevens on Sunday. Speaking of the team’s performance and his retirement from 7’s, Amonde said: “I am truly honoured to have been part of this unbelievable team. The 2022 National Sevens Circuit marks an end to my participation in the 7’s version of the team. Considering the change of squad across the different legs in this circuit, we have achieved an incredible feat.” The bankers finished second overall on the circuit with 107 points and third overall in Kakamega after beating Strathmore Leos 21-14 to take the bronze medal. Kabras beat Menengai Oilers 19-7 to win the event with Menengai Oilers crowned series champions with 113 points. Amonde will now be joining the technical bench for the KCB as well as the Kenya Sevens team in the future. "Following my retirement from 7’s, I look forward to beginning a new journey as a member of the technical bench both for my club KCB and the National team. "With my wealth of experience in the game, I want to also help the youngsters who are rising through the ranks to also achieve success,” Amonde added. Amonde retired from Shujaa last year at the conclusion of the Tokyo Olympics. He has been Kenya's mainstay, leading the team to their maiden cup triumph in Singapore in 2016 as well as captaining the squad to the Rio Olympics in 2016 and Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast in 2018. He captained Shujaa to the Rugby sevens World Cup in Russia, where they finished fourth overall. The Kenya Rugby Union feted him with an achievement award after the conclusion of the 2022 National Sevens Circuit for his outstanding services in the Sevens version of the game. The alumni of Kisumu Boys played 358 matches, scoring 64 tries for a total of 320 points. He has 528 carries, 62 clean breaks, and 369 tackles (all-time highest for Kenya). For KCB, he won seven Kenya Cup titles, and two Enterprise Cup titles as well as winning the national sevens series twice.