Three companies and a school have partnered in training 34 Maasai students with ICT knowledge to become software engineers. The companies include Kenya Network Information Centre (Kenic), which manages the dot. ke domain in the country, and Osta Tech Ltd, which provides satellite connectivity services in the remotest parts of Kenya. Others are Huawei and Moringa School which with the others launched a 5-week intensive course for the students in Kajiad town on Wednesday evening. While launching the software developer’s course in Kajiado, the Memusi Hope Foundation CEO Lilian Koech said the rigorous training will secure businesses and job opportunities for the graduates after the training. “The companies in this partnership are here today to support our flagship education project named Entaisere-Kenya (the future of Kenya),” said Koech. Present during the launch of the education program was Christopher Waweru, a business development partner at Kenic and Oscar Mwai, a director at Osta Tech Ltd. Waweru said some of those being trained now, will be recruited as trainers of more others in the future of the Entaisere - Kenya flagship education program. Mwai said the flagship educational project launched on Wednesday will be his company’s pilot engagement for other all other schools in the remotest parts of Kajiado, Samburu, Isiolo, Moyale and Turkana. Steve Nyikuli, a director of marketing at Moringa school said the Kajiado project by the foundation will remain to be a centre of excellence for many generations to come. Koech said Memusi Hope Foundation is a charitable organisation founded in 2008 to uplift the livelihood of the Maa community. “The foundation seeks to educate, empower and transform the community in matters of education, agriculture, climate as well as health issues,” Koech said. She said the MHF, through strategic collaboration and partnerships, runs many programs to enhance access to post-primary education through the provision of sponsorship opportunities to poor and marginalised youth from the Maa community. The foundation also seeks to educate the community on the values of modern and climate-smart agriculture. “It is also advocating for environmental conservation measures like tree planting, human-wildlife coexistence, and protection of natural habitats,” added the CEO. The foundation was founded and is patronised by Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchory. Kanchory’s wife, Koech is a marketing and branding specialist. She has a Master's Degree in Strategic Management from the UoN and a Bachelor's Degree in Business Management from Moi University.