Italian multinational oil and gas company Eni, has started production of the first vegetable oil for bio-refineries in Kenya. Through its subsidiary Eni Kenya, the company set up an oilseed collection and pressing plant (agri-hub) in Makueni early this year. The first agri-hub will have an installed capacity of 15,000 tons with an anticipated production of 2,500 tons in 2022. "This project embodies all the pillars of Eni's approach to sustainability. First, the carbon neutrality, as bio- refining is an important element in our path to zero emissions by 2050," Eni chief executive officer Claudio Descalzi said in a statement on Monday. "Second, the operational excellence, as we completed the work on schedule, one year after the agreement with the Kenyan government and six months after the shipyard’s start-up, in total safety, with more than 200,000 hours worked without any accidents." Descalzi said the firm has so far involved 25,000 farmers and employed up to 200 people a day in the construction of the center. PRICE DROP The agri-hub will process castor, croton and cottonseeds to extract vegetable oil. This could see ease in cooking oil prices that have been escalating in recent months due to factors including the Russia-Ukraine war that has led to raw material supply constraints, dollar shortage and inflation. A litre of cooking oil in the country moved from Sh346 in February, Sh430 in March, Sh408 in April to Sh455 in June. This come up from Sh303 per litre last year and Sh206 in 2020, meaning the price has more than doubled over the past two years (a 116 per cent increase). The biting dollar shortage and limited exports of palm oil from Indonesia, the world’s biggest producer, worsened the situation. Eni's agri-feedstock raw materials come from crops that are resistant to aridity and suitable for growing on degraded soils hence do not compete with the food supply chain. The raw materials are from castor crops, seeds harvested from spontaneous plants (croton), and co-products of the cotton supply chain in a circular economy perspective. The facility will also produce feed and bio-fertilizers derived from the protein component of the seeds for the benefit of livestock and food production, contributing to food security. The center will also work as a training and technical support hub for farmers. STANDARD Eni has been present in Kenya since 2013 with offshore Oil & Gas exploration activities in the Lamu Basin, and with industrial models of fully-integrated circular economy along the bio-fuel production value chain. Its supply chain and all agri-feedstocks developed have been certified under the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification  sustainability scheme, one of the main voluntary standard recognized by the European commission for biofuel certification. Eni is the first company in the world to certify castor and croton for biofuel use under the ISCC-EU scheme and has also enabled an African cotton mill to achieve such certification standard for the first time, offering new market opportunities to local farmers for the fiber. LOW LAND USE Eni Kenya, in partnership with ISCC within a Horizon 2020 project, has also taken steps to obtain Low ILUC (low risk of direct and indirect land use change) certification in the next few months. The first phase of the project in Kenya includes the construction of a second agri-hub to reach a total capacity of 30,000 tons per year of vegetable oil in 2023, as well as the development of associated agricultural supply chains. The startup of the production in Kenya represents the first step in Eni's agro-industrial chain initiatives. Over the past year, agreements have been signed in several countries including Congo, Mozambique, Angola, Ivory Coast, Benin, Kazakhstan and Rwanda. In these countries, as well as in Italy, feasibility studies have been launched in the most mature realities aiming at carrying out a first phase of agricultural activities starting in 2022 and then proceeding with the construction of seeds pressing plants for bio-refining. GLOBAL MARKET Cooking oil prices could ease towards the end of July, local manufacturers have hinted amid a correction in the prices of crude and palm oil in the global market. The benchmark futures have since fallen more than 30 per cent from their peak in June on account of rising Indonesian domestic and export availabilities. Recession fears in the country have triggered an aggressive crude palm oil selling , leading to the price drop, traders say. Crude palm prices have dropped from an average $2,100 (Sh247,842) per tonne in June to $982.39 (Sh115,941 ) last week. Yesterday, a tonne was quoted at $892.05 (Sh 105, 279). Indonesia is the global leader in palm oil exports, a key input in manufacturing of cooking oil. Malaysia's benchmark palm oil prices are also expected to ease at the end of this month, signaling cheaper products if importers and manufacturers move to pass the benefits to consumers. The Malysian Palm Oil Board is expected to meet next week Tuesday with major determination forseen that could influence price and exports. “Yes the price is going down significantly….One week to two weeks process must reflect in in Kenya,” an official within the country’s manufacturing industry lobby-Kenya Association of Manufacturers told the last week. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) data indicated a litre of cooking oil had increased to Sh387.98 in June, a 51.7 per cent compared to Sh225.83 same month last year. A spot check by the Star noted some brands are currently selling at as much as Sh411 per litre in the local retail space. Palm oil is also used in making products such as soaps, biscuits and noodles, meaning Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) could also record a price reduction.