We all watched in awe and horror as the people of Sri Lanka stormed the President’s Palace in protest. Sri Lanka had been in the news for quite a few weeks, where it was reported that the country was in a state of collapse. Fuel was scarce and was reserved for special service vehicles. There was a widespread power cut as electricity was rationed and food prices not only soared but there was also a report of food shortage. The Prime Minister was forced to declare a national bankruptcy as the country could not meet the payment demands for their debts, nor could it afford to pay for food and fuel. I have long been an advocate of people power. The common compatriot is the most powerful individual in the country. He pays taxes for the government to function, he builds the economy everyday as he treks to work at 6am and he is the one who votes for the people in office. However, as history has indicated, those who took office post-colonisation, especially in African countries, ruled by fear. They instilled the belief that government officials were the most powerful individuals in the country. Which is why Kenya was a one-party state for almost half a century. Most countries that endured years of apartheid or dictatorship ended up in shambles as the people who suffered enough oppression mobilised to overthrow regimes. The Arab Spring was an exciting case study for me. Most North African and Middle Eastern countries protested poor governance and corruption in the early 2010s and saw successful overthrowing of governments or changes in governance. In Zimbabwe, where the people hailed Robert Mugabe as a war hero, those same people stormed the President’s residence, forcing Uncle Bob to step down and his wife to flee when they had had enough. “Power resides where men believe it resides. It is a trick. A shadow on the wall. And a very small man can cast a very large shadow,” Lord Varys of Game of Thrones said. The whole time the uprisings were occurring across the continent, I wondered if the likes of Museveni and Kagame were taking notes. Rulers who lead by fear are infatuated by the power they have without understanding that it was the people who allowed them to have that power. Citizens will always remain untroubled by a dictator’s regime so long as they live in a peaceful and fruitful country. However, as soon as they are pushed to the wall with nothing to lose, they will attack. Just look at the case of Idi Amin, once a powerful man who ruled by fear but was deposed by the very people he subjected to inhumane treatment. Back home, I watched a mob of unemployed youths chanting as they led a procession of campaign vehicles in the tiny streets of Kisauni. I was infuriated, saddened, dismayed and somewhat understanding of it all. As a born and raised local of Mombasa, I have watched how unemployment has turned our young men into zombies, drug addicts and pushers, touts and “jobless millionaires” as they call themselves. They do what they do to survive, which is why I understood their hunger for the campaign. To them, campaigns are a job; as long as they are paid, they have no qualms. The essence of the campaigns, however, is lost on them. The same people they chant for and promote are the same people who roll up their tinted windows as they whoosh past traffic once they are in office. The people who pay them meagre amounts of Sh200 after a whole day of marching and shouting are the same people who will be in the news after looting billions of taxpayer money. The mob took over the streets causing traffic, and I watched them thinking, “One day, these same men will wake up and realise that the Sh200 does not even buy flour, and they will be marching in the opposite direction.”