Hit Squad captain Nick 'Commander' Okoth has said they are ready to thump their opponents senseless on their way to the podium at the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games that unfurl the curtains on July 29. The quartet of Okoth, Elizabeth Andiego (light-heavyweight), Christine Ongare (cruiserweight) and Shaffi Bakari (bantamweight) is already in Birmingham for the games. The four were part of the Kenyan contingent that traveled to the United Kingdom over the weekend. Okoth said they only need to spruce up a little bit for the task ahead after stropping their claws at home. “We are here to win medals. We practised well enough at home and all we want to do now is to make the country proud here in Birmingham,” Okoth said. “We shall take some time to survey our surroundings as we continue to prepare for our bouts.” According to the schedule released by the organizers, the boxing program will roll out officially on Friday with the men's and women's preliminary rounds of 32 bouts. The men's and women's preliminary rounds of 16 and 32 will be staged the next day on Saturday and extend to Tuesday next week. The quarter-finals will then begin on Wednesday. Okoth has vowed to jut out his full talons as he eyes one last vintage performance in Birmingham on his way to retirement, adding that he expects to bag at least a silver medal. “As I had said earlier, this will be my last competition. I intend to retire thereafter and concentrate on other things. Which is why I must work hard enough to ensure I return home with a medal, at least a silver if a gold medal gets out of reach,” Okoth said. Head coach, Benjamin Musa, named the quartet on July 28 after trimming the initial eight-member provisional squad summoned to camp in February. Coach Musa said he used merit to pick the boxers from the initial eight-member provisional squad. “Besides technical and tactical prowess, the National Olympics Committee of Kenya gave us a condition to gauge the medal prospects of individual boxers before including them in the Kenyan contingent,” Musa said. “From 2019, we've had our sights on the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. So, I considered how the boxers have been performing since then and picked the most deserving," Musa noted. “All the four have graced the Games at one point in their careers and, therefore, boast enough experience," he added. Musa, however, said he felt dejected after being forced to offload David Karanja, Boniface Mugunde, Elly Ajowi, and Elizabeth Akinyi. “Those are boxers I would have wished to have in the travelling party. Unfortunately, I had to exclude them from the list given the number of slots set aside for the national team.”