World Under 20-bound 400m sprint sensation Damaris Nduleve has expressed her excitement after making Team Kenya for the first time in her young career. Nduleve punched her ticket to the global championships, set for Cali, Colombia between August 1 and 6, after edging out pre-race favourite Sylvia Chelengat during the U20 trials held at Nyayo Stadium last weekend. Nduleve, a Form Three student at St. Martin's Masinga, will partner Chelangat in the one-lap race in the hunt for medals in the South American city. Nduleve, of Southern, clocked 53.71 as Chelangát, of Central Rift, came second in 53.96, deep into the 55.20 qualification standard. "This is the best moment of my life after being selected in the national team. I thank God for this opportunity. Last year, I failed to qualify and I am happy that I could even challenge Chelangat today. I never saw it coming," Nduleve said. However, she is not resting on her laurels, observing that there are some aspects of her running she will have to work on in her quest to medal in Cali. "I have to work on my finishing power since I experience burnout in the last 50m," Nduleve said. She lamented how training in Masinga is bothersome since the conditions are harsh, coupled with lack of training facilities. "In Masinga, we do not have adequate training equipment. The training ground is unkempt. We train on murram," said Nduleve, the only runner in her family. Meanwhile, Winnie Chepngétich, the first Kenyan woman to qualify for a field event in the World Under 20 Championships has credited the Athletics Kenya-organised Miramas training camp in France in April to her latest success. The long jumper hopped 6.20m to earn a direct ticket to the global show in Cali. She also recognised her coach, former international Caroline Kola's efforts in aiding her qualification for Cali. "Before I went to France, my personal best was 5.10m. There, I did a lot of drills and speedwork and my jump increased to 5.72. This gave me morale. I believe I will jump above 6m in Cali," Chepngétich said. "My coach, madam Caroline Kola has always been available to correct me and teach me new tactics. Training with her has helped me learn a lot."