State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena on Sunday said a special prayer for President Uhuru Kenyatta, as he heads for retirement. Speaking during a thanksgiving prayer and worship service to mark the first family's successful 10-year tenure, Kanze prayed that God blesses the President and his family as they begin a new chapter of life. "Your Excellency as we finish we just want to ask that the Lord will bless you, that the Lord will keep you, that the Lord will strengthen your cords, that the Lord will enlarge your territory altogether with your family that no pestilence will come before you. That a thousand may fall on your right-hand side and ten thousand will fall on the left-hand side but no harm will come upon you," she said. The Presidential Strategic Communication Unit boss said Uhuru will be missed by his members of staff, and even more as the head of state. "You have given us the opportunity to shine in the international market, you have given us an opportunity to be known as Kenya, we thank you. May God bless you and your family." Kanze thanked Uhuru for making her the first female spokesperson in the country. "Thank you for helping me write history and I do not take it for granted and for PSCU they want to say a special thank you because you have enabled them to carry out their mandate," she said. During the prayer meeting that gathered all staff from State Houses and State Lodges across the country, Uhuru commended State House staff for their commitment and dedication to serving the nation. President Kenyatta thanked them for the role they played in helping him deliver on his mandate as Head of State. "On my own behalf, the First Lady and my entire family, we are grateful to all of you, all departments of State House, for we have worked very well together. We shall miss each one of you, and we will carry fond memories of working together in the service of our nation. “It has, indeed, been a great pleasure and a great joy working with you because if you are working in an environment where you are happy, you are also able to deliver,” he said.