Over eight supporters of Kisumu Senate ODM candidate Prof Tom Ojienda have sustained injuries after being attacked by rowdy youths during a thanksgiving and voter turnout mobilisation campaign. The incident occurred at a Somali base in the Juakali area within Kisumu Central constituency after a person became wild and demanded that he wanted to make a speech. It was at that point when agitated youths suspected to have been hired by a politician started to pelt supporters of Ojienda with stones on Thursday. Ojienda, a senior counsel, was not present during the incident. The supporters, including women who were aboard the peace campaign caravan sustained head, hands and chest injuries during the attack. Wycliffe Otieno (DJ) sustained injuries on his head while John Otieno was injured on his hand. Joyce Halima and Marlins Clare also sustained limb injuries. Some women also sustained head, chest and back injuries after being stoned by the rowdy youths. Former nominated MCA Caroline Ogot who was part of  Ojienda's caravan team was injured on the fingers as they escaped to safety. Ogot condemned the attack saying it was well organised by a politician hellbent to cause chaos in a peaceful meeting aimed at thanking the people of Kisumu for nominating Ojienda and sensitising voters to turn out in large numbers and vote for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga on August 9 general election. "Nobody can stand up and say it was a feud. The attack on us was well orchestrated. When the truck was taking off, the stones were coming like rain. It was terrible," she said. Ogot condemned the incident saying such acts of violence were unhealthy for the unity and peace in the county especially now that the country was headed to the election. "It is very unfortunate that a few hired youths by selfish politicians disrupt a thanksgiving and voter mobilisation exercise for Ojienda and Raila. This kind of violence is scaring away women from participating in politics and even going to vote," Ogot said. The political intolerance being witnessed, she said, risks creating voter apathy in the county, especially amongst women. The matter has been reported to Kisumu Central Police Station. The ex-MCA called for a thorough investigation and arrest of those behind the incident saying candidates should search for votes in peace instead of engaging in criminal activities. "You have to woo voters in a constructive and peaceful way. Let the people make decisions based on your ideologies of every candidate. You cannot force someone to support or vote for you," Ogot said. She pointed out that they have peacefully traversed six sub-counties which included Nyakach, Muhoroni, Seme, Nyando, Kisumu West and Kisumu East and engaged people on voter turnout. "It is only Kisumu Central where we have experienced acts of violence," she added. During the thanksgiving tour and voter mobilisation, the team have been distributing food items such as flour and sugar to the vulnerable families in the sub counties. "We are not giving food items to bribe voters but to support the vulnerable, elderly people and widows who are hardest hit with the high cost of living in the country," Ogot said. She, however, did not mention those behind the attack saying the incident was political. Ogot dismissed claims that Ojienda has not been preaching the six-piece voting pattern saying such allegations were baseless and untrue. She also asked all candidates to come out and look for votes with only 11 days remaining to the polls. Ogot said the veteran lawyer has been in the forefront wooing voters to support ODM candidates and ensuring voters vote Raila to the last man to clinch the presidency with a landslide victory. "Ojienda has been keen to deliver the senate seat to Kisumu people as well as ensure Raila wins the country's top seat," Ogot said.