Fourteen-year-old junior golfer, Calvin Juma, produced a stellar performance on Saturday to claim the Division One victory during the022 NCBA Golf Series at Karen Country Golf Club. With a round of 44 points, Calvin ended his day three points better than the closest challenger, Eunice Koome, who took the runner-up spot in the category with 41 points. Calvin’s performance ensured a 100 per cent winning streak for junior golfers at the Karen legs of the NCBA Golf Series, with last year’s event at the club having been won by the twelve-year-old junior golfer, Nathan Mwangi. Nathan also emerged victorious at Karen during the two-day Junior Golf tournament held in August last year when he took the winner's spot in the 12-year-old category. Calvin now becomes the Series’ fourth junior player to take top honours at a seniors' event since the inception of the series last year. Others to have made this mark include Cherono Kipkorir, who emerged overall winner at the Royal Nairobi and 11-year-old, Mumbi Gatu, who was crowned overall winner at the Limuru. Speaking after the tournament, NCBA Group managing director, John Gachora, said: “We are elated to have a junior, once again, claim top honours at a seniors’ event. It confirms everything we have said about the future of golf in our country: that it lies in the hands of juniors." "That is why we have made a deliberate effort to invest in the growth and development of junior golf in the country with the view of shaping talent at an early age with the intention of having these youngsters represent Kenya at top global golf events soon.” In the second division, Karen’s Anne Mahinda carded a round of 41 points, two better than clubmate Mutheu Nguze, to win the category while Rhoda Mwebesa was crowned the lady winner – after the countback – having carded a round of 37 points. In the juniors category, Sheha Omanga carded a round of 32 points to emerge the winner. Karen Country Club will be represented by Calvin, Anne and Rhoda – who all won in their respective categories at the Karen event. Among the staff, Rita Waruinge carded a round of 38 points to emerge the winner. In the nines, Koki Muia won the first nine – after countback – with 22 points while Samuel Maugo claimed the 2nd nine-win with a similar points haul. I