Ian Poulter will be allowed to play in this week’s Scottish Open after an appeal against his ban was upheld. The Englishman had entered the tournament which precedes next week’s 150th Open Championship at St Andrew's. But the European-based DP World Tour barred Poulter and 15 other players because they have joined the Saudi-funded LIV Golf Invitational series. DP World Tour chief Keith Pelley said he was “disappointed by the outcome” but would “abide by the decision” In a statement, Pelley added: “It is important to remember, however, this is only a stay of the sanctions imposed, pending the hearing of the players’ appeal as to whether those sanctions were appropriate. “The make-up of the field for the Genesis Scottish Open will be advised in due course, but based on this decision the field size will increase beyond 156. “We will make further comment on this in due course, but not during our time at Adare Manor.” Pelley is at the Irish venue that will host the 2027 Ryder Cup for a charity Pro-Am event. The DP World Tour statement confirmed that ‘following a hearing before HHJ Sycamore CBE, appointed by Sport Resolutions (UK), suspensions imposed on Ian Poulter, Adrian Otaegui and Justin Harding have been temporarily stayed, pending determination of their substantive appeals by an Appeal Panel in due course. Earlier, Poulter, who is also at Adare Manor, told BBC Sport he was “fighting for his right to play golf” and confirmed he had taken legal action against his ban from the Scottish Open. “My commitment to the European Tour has been there since day one,” he said. “And it’s still there today. I’m proud of playing so often, when it was to the detriment of world ranking points and FedEx Cup points I could have earned playing more in America.” Poulter is also among those who have been indefinitely suspended by the PGA Tour for signing up for the LIV project. The Scottish Open, which starts at the Renaissance Club in East Lothian on Thursday, is co-sanctioned between the American circuit and the DP World Tour. “I feel disappointed, and offended that I’ve been suspended from playing golf on a Tour that I’ve played for 24 years,” Poulter added. Players have been suspended after playing the opening LIV events which are 54-hole shotgun start tournaments. The first was staged at the Centurion Club in Hertfordshire last month and the second was held in Portland, Oregon last week. The PGA and DP World Tours refused waivers giving permission to their players to compete in these $25m (£20m) tournaments. Many, including Poulter, have signed lucrative contracts with LIV Golf. 