IEBC  Chair Wafula Chebukati has defended three Venezuelans arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Thursday saying "they are key personnel responsible for deployment and management of election technology infrastructure". In a statement, Chebukati expressed disappointment in the arrests saying their detention is tantamount to intimidation ahead of the August 9, polls. The three personnel, who are employees of Smartmatic International B.V., were put behind bars upon arrival at JKIA from Venezuela. "The brazen decision of the security authorities to arrest, detain and confine in a solitary hideout the three personnel without justification, is an exhibition of intimidation on hardworking persons who are only keen to deliver a robust technology infrastructure for conduct of a credible, secure and verifiable election," Chebukati said in a press release seen by the Star Thursday night. The IEBC boss added that the commission CEO Hussein Marjan tried in vain to explain to the security officials why the three were in the country. The Kenyan government is yet to respond on why the three are being held. Chebukati has however demanded their immediate release to enable the commission to continue with the preparations for the coming polls. "The Commission has a valid legal contract executed between itself and Smartmatic International B.V. for the supply, delivery, installation, testing, commissioning, support and maintenance of the Kenya Integrated Election Management System," he said. "The Commission is concerned about this unjustified intimidation, harassment and blackmail whatsoever and demands the immediate release of the three employees of SmartmaticInternational B.V." He further warned that the arrest of the officials may hamper preparations for the forthcoming polls. Chebukati said they are banking on the three officials to set up the required technology that will ensure a smooth running of the August 9, polls. "...the arrest and continued holding of the personnel has the inevitable effect of hampering the deployment of technology in the forthcoming General Election. Technology plays a central role in elections and the commission wonders what the intention behind the holding of the technical personnel is meant to achieve," Chebukati stated.