Energy CS Monica Juma has urged Kitui residents to use their title deeds for economic empowerment. She said if used wisely and prudently, the deeds would uplift the standards of living not only for individuals but the community. The CS spoke on Wednesday during the distribution of 20,400 title deeds to residents of Kitui South and Kitui East subcounties. She said the acquisition of title deeds is a default solution to the land grabbing menace as with a title deed one gets an irrevocable right to land ownership. Juma, who was on her second day tour of Kitui county, said the ongoing nationwide distribution of title deeds is meant to empower land owners economically. She said the beneficiaries could use the land ownership document to obtain loans from financial institutions. The CS said massive production of title deeds has been expedited for as many Kenyans as possible to get the vital document. This she said is in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. "During Uhuru's tenure, a record of six million title deeds have been issued across the country. "Previously, only five million title deeds had been issued since independence" she said. However Juma cautioned land owners against misuse of the documents, which could render them landless. "Let people use the title deeds wisely to spur economic growth within communities, through financial gains that would improve living standards,"  she said. The CS was accompanied by county commissioner Rioba Mbogai and was joined by the Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai when she met residents at Mutomo trading centre. Juma further urged the deputy county commissioners to offer safe custody of title deeds on behalf of land owners who cannot keep them. "I know there are some of you who due to security reasons, would like the documents kept safely for you. I advise that you hand them over to your respective deputy county commissioners for safe keeping" she said. The CS launched the issuing of title deeds in Kitui county at a meeting in Mwingi town on Tuesday. She said 74,000 title deeds will be issued to land owners across Kitui county within a week. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)