Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier wants the government to expedite the process of resolving the existing impasse with the world football governing body, Fifa. In an exclusive interview, Rachier sent a passionate plea to the wrangling parties to settle the dispute once and for all, adding that the country was already sick and tired of going round in circles and being held at ransom. “I don't understand why the government insists on extending the life of the Transition Committee because such decisions are not within any of the Fifa's statutes I'm familiar with. I know they mean well for the country but we need to find a lasting solution to the whole crisis,” Rachier said. The K'Ogalo honcho said he is not aware of any tussles pitting the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee against a group of local stakeholders who have formed a 13-member management committee to run football in the country. “I wouldn't want to involve myself so much in football politics. All I want to see is what the government will do to bring back the normalcy that we all desire,” Rachier said. “I wouldn't blame the 13-man ad hoc committee constituted by football stakeholders. I believe they are also keen to witness the resumption of football activities in the country. That's what they are pushing for in my opinion,” Rachier said. The 13-member FKF management committee caused a stir last week after penning a letter to invite all topflight league clubs for a meeting on  July 16 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani where an independent body will be appointed to run the top tier. In the letter copied to the 18 KPL clubs, FKF management committee chairman Robert Macharia said they would soon announce the 2022/23 season fixtures. However, FKF Transition Committee has since dismissed the move as a charade and warned clubs against buying into the idea. Meanwhile, Rachier has said they will channel the Sh12 million they received from President Uhuru Kenyatta into offsetting salaries. “We want to thank the president for gifting us the money. It has actually eased off the burden of paying salaries for players and staff,” Rachier said. Concerning talk that the club was about to unveil a new sponsor soon, Rachier said that negotiations had reached an advanced stage, and a deal was in sight. “We are still holding talks with the sponsors and we shall update you on the progress in the coming days as soon as we are ready,” Rachier said.