Senators have moved to stop the wanton loss of public funds in counties through delayed or abandoned projects by contractors. The lawmakers have passed a resolution to compel contractors that dilly dally with projects or abandon them after receiving payments to return the cash to the devolved units. County officials who award such contractors will also be held liable. “Where money is established to have been paid for incomplete work or works not done, the contractor and responsible officers should be held to account, with a view of the recovery of the funds lost,” the senators. “Payment of project works should only be done for the certified works so that the County does not lose money for incomplete works,” they added. These are some of the tough measures the senators have adopted in a report of the Senate’s County Public Accounts and Investments Committee. The panel scrutinized Auditor General Nancy Gathungu’s reports for 2019-20 for various county executives that flagged massive loss of public funds in stalled and abandoned projects. “The Committee noted that contractors abandoned projects midway, citing delay in payment based on certified works,” the senators. While the committee noted that some of the projects stalled due to delayed release of funds, some were due to lazy and incompetent contractors who are awarded tenders by the counties. The counties, the senators held, are not undertaking proper project conceptualization, planning, and execution of projects, thereby occasioning variations that could be avoided. In the report filed by the committee chaired by Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko and adopted by the Senate, the senators also want the counties to develop contract agreements with provisions for compensation for incomplete projects. “Contract agreements should be developed with clauses that have liquidated damages for non-completion of projects and should be drafted by County Attorneys,” the committee said. The lawmakers demanded that the counties do proper project conceptualization, and project planning to ensure timely completion of the projects. The Senators also want the county executives to establish project delivery units as well as project monitoring and evaluation units to manage the implementation of projects.