The Indian Ocean tides are high, but Hamadi Kombo braves the strong currents as he rows his boat into the deep seas. The currents are life-threatening but Kombo is relaxed and focused as he manoeuvres through the unforgiving sea waves. The ocean waters splash on Kombo's face as the waves hit the boat. But he remains steady. The fisherman is heading towards a fish cage, which has been set deep in the sea at Kijiweni in Shimoni, Kwale county. Kombo is one of the many local fishermen benefiting from Rabbitfish cage farming, a pilot project supported by the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute. The fishermen have set up rabbitfish cages inside the Indian Ocean, where they feed the fish regularly. Despite the dangers, Kombo says it is worth the risk as the cage fish farming project a game-changer. "For many years, we have been depending on inferior fishing techniques, but this is one worth dying for," he says. Kombo has over 30 years of experience in deep sea fishing. He says with the fish cage farming method marine life dangers are minimised. Kombo says traditional fishing methods are extremely risky and destructive. "Before this project, we used to go fishing at night and sometimes the ocean was not friendly," he says. With the changing environment and dwindling of fish stocks, fishermen decided to embrace fish cage breeding technology to improve lives and conserve the ocean for a better tomorrow. Bakari Hassan, another fisherman from Shimoni, is now an expert in making and preparing fish cages. He also puts his life on the line to promote marine life conservation by engaging in sustainable fishing. It is the love for his work and passion to protect the environment that made him become part of the blue economy project. "All my life, I have depended on fishing and when the only source of livelihood is in danger, you will do anything to keep it going," he says. The fish farming project is a dream come true for them. Hassan says the technology is set to revive the unstable fishing industry and improve their income and local economy. Hassan says for decades now they have been struggling to get enough fish to sustain their families, but the business is often poor because of scarcity of the commodity. "We could spend a whole day and come out with less than a kilogram of fish," he said. Since the fish cage farming project started, the fishermen spend only three hours inspecting and feeding the fish per day. They have concentrated on rearing the Rabbitfish, known as Tafi in Kiswahili. According to the fishermen, Tafi are in decline because they are rare to find but have a very high market demand compared to other fish. Rabbitfish is seasonal. "When there are not plenty of coral reefs and seagrass, the Tafi fish disappear completely," he says. Hassan says the project aims to produce the most valuable fish throughout so that they can take advantage of the shortage to uplift lives. According to KMFRI mariculture assistant director David Mirera, fish cage farming is 100 per cent better than the traditional methods. It is a science they brought from somewhere else and decided to train the local fishermen who depend on the sea for livelihood. Mirera says the technology helps farmers practice fishing in a small area thus reducing overfishing and curbing harmful fishing practices. "The fish cage farming is aimed at improving the community's livelihood and marine life conservation," he says. For years, poor fishing methods have contributed to the destruction of coral reefs and fingerlings. Mirera says the project is targeted to tap the blue economy opportunities and expose residents to commercial fishing. One fish cage can hold 1,000 fish and produce over 2,000kg within six months. Mirera says if the project is replicated everywhere, the farmers can harvest and sell plenty of fish in a short period hence enriching living standards. The fish cage farming project is conducted in partnership with the Western Indian Ocean Marine Science Association, a non-governmental organization based in Zanzibar. WIOMSA research scientist Mathias Igulu says the fish cage project is part of efforts to exploit the blue economy along the East African Indian Ocean belt. He says the ocean has a lot of untapped opportunities and they are researching and supporting what locals can do best to promote the economy and boost food security. "We have not yet used 30 per cent of our sea wealth but there is a potential of doubling the economy if we effectively embrace blue economy activities," he said. The fishermen also work in close cooperation with KMFRI staff to make the projects a success. KMFRI researcher under the fish cage project Miriam Wainaina says they are helping farmers come up with the best fingerlings for successful reproduction. She says the fingerlings are scarce and the institutions assists the community to breed fish for the project. Some farmers also collect the fingerlings from the sea but are not enough due to shortage. Esther Wairimo from KMFRI says since getting food for the fish is a challenge they work with the community to produce the best diet for the fish. According to Mirera, fish cage farming is interfered with by the strong currents. He says during the heavy waves the cages get worn out easily and require frequent repair. The cages are made of simple materials comprising water tanks, wood, doors, nets and nails. Mirera said the fish can be stolen by malicious people when there is no one keeping guard. "Some fishermen might come and harvest the fish while the rest are not around, which largely interferes with the project's success," he says. Edited by Henry Makori