President Uhuru Kenyatta has awarded four high school principals different awards in recognition of their contributions to the education sector. The gazette notice dated July 8 recognized four principals, one university student leader, an agency CEO, and a stakeholder. The Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (C.B.S) is the second highest honor after the Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart (M.G.H). The Order of the Burning Spear award is given for distinguished services to public dignitaries, exemplary members of the public service, and other professionals. The Order is divided into Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (C.B.S), Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (E.B.S), and Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear (M.B.S). Machogu Paul Tirimba, a stakeholder who participated in the collection of public views on the Competency-Based Curriculum, received the second class E.B.S. "Kenya National Examinations Council CEO David Njengere also received a third class M.B.S," the notice reads. Njengere received the award alongside two high school principals. "Flora Mulatya who is Kenya High Principal and Sammy Maiyo Kipchumba, principal of Kapsabet High also received an M.B.S award," the notice reads. The Order of the Grand Warrior (O.G.W) is an award presented to individuals in recognition of an outstanding service rendered to the country in different capacities. Two other principals were featured in this category, they include Kisii High principal Fred Mogaka and Mang'u High Principal John Kuria. Some 180 civilians were also awarded Head of State’s Commendation while 24 officers received the same honor under the military division. Among the civilians was Kenya Universities Students Organization Chairperson Anthony Manyara. Media Council of Kenya (MCK) Chief Executive Officer David Omwoyo is among 101 individuals who were conferred with the M.B.S alongside Obstetrician and Gynaecologist specialist Francis Kagema and Nation Media journalist John Kamau. Retired judge Mary Ang'awa, former Foreign Affairs Permanent Secretary Thuita Mwangi, High Court judge George Dulu and Dean of School of Medicine, Moi University College, Atwoli Lukoye were also awarded the M.B.S.