More than 60 Muslim leaders from Kwale county have thrown their weight behind Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga. The clergy, under the umbrella of Kenya Muslims Friends of Raila, said the ODM leader has great plans for the Muslim community. Led by the Kenya Muslim National Council chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao, they said they will stand with Raila. Ngao spoke at Ukunda showground social hall in Msambweni subcounty, Kwale county. According to Ngao, Deputy President William Ruto failed the Islamic leaders when they needed him the most. Ngao said Ruto is among the leaders who were opposing the Kadhis Court. "The DP is pretending to be on our side, but we saw him during the making of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, he did not realise the importance of Kadhis Court," he said. He said the DP should be rejected at all costs. "If he didn't see our significance then, do you think he cares for us now?" he posed. The Muslim clergy said they are supporting Raila because he stood with them and cared for the well-being of the religious leaders. He said through his support many people from the Muslim community have ascended to power and were appointed to important positions. Ngao said the ‘wheelbarrow agenda’ of DP Ruto has no impact on the welfare of the Muslim community. He said Ruto is only focused on empowering boda boda and small-scale businesswomen and sidelined the rest of the population. He said the Islamic leaders will campaign for Raila and ensure he is elected the next president. The Sheikh said they have launched campaigns against Ruto and his brigade. "Let them not be cheated, they will lose very early in the morning," he said. He told the Kwale residents to oppose all Ruto's allies, saying the Kenya Kwanza team has no vision. The Kemnac chair also campaigned for Hamadi Boga for the Kwale gubernatorial seat. Boga is vying on the ODM ticket. Others in the race are county speaker Sammy Ruwa (independent), Lung'anzi Chai (PAA), Gereza Dena (KANU), Chirau Mwakwere (Wiper) and Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani (UDA). Ngao said the professor is learned and in the best capacity to address the challenges facing residents. Sheikh Amir Zani from Msambweni said they will throw their weight behind Raila and Boga because they have the same goals. He said the two want to end water shortage, food insecurity and bring development. (Edited by Tabnacha O)