President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday lauded the Kenya Defence Forces for their role in Kenya's progress beyond their core mandate of safeguarding the country. He acknowledged that it  has helped in the railway restoration, revival of Kenya Meat Commission and ship building. "To all our service men and women, I shall never tire of thanking you for your bravery, excellence, and dedication. You are the golden spear of our safety, our shield against those who wish to do us harm, and a beacon of inspiration for the entire Nation," he said. He spoke when he presided over the KDF consecration, presentation and trooping of colors by the 21st Battalion of the Kenya Rifles at Langata Garrison in Nairobi City County. Uhuru said the military unit will relocate from Mariakani to Manda in Lamu County, to partner with Kenya Navy and the multi-agency team operating in the area to safeguard Kenya's maritime border and ensure safety of residents. "Together with the Kenya Navy Base Manda, the Unit will establish a permanent presence in Boni Forest from where it will secure the border areas and support Manda Base in executing Maritime defence within an already existing Multi Agency framework." "The Unit will also support in providing security to the population in Lamu County," he said. Uhuru said the award of colors to all the three battalions that constitute the 6th Brigade of the Kenya Army during his tenure is a significant milestone in enabling KDF to deliver on its duty. He pointed out that the trooping of colors is not only intended to fete national values but also to celebrate the KDF track record of diligently discharging their mandate with honor. "It is also a celebration of our national values, the sacred call to serve with honor that typifies KDF, our military’s immaculate track record of discharging its duties faithfully and courageously and, above all, it is a celebration of our country and our flag." "We are on occasions such as this, reminded of the symbolism and significance of our National Flag and its three colors – Black, Red and Green. It is the embodiment of our national pride, our values, our history; and our commitment to peace while always being ready to defend ourselves and our heritage of splendor," he said. Chief of Defence Forces General Robert Kibochi expressed gratitude to President Uhuru for suporting KDF in achieving its mandate by providing adequate resources, guidance and leadership. Kibochi urged the new battalion to go forth and fulfill its mandate as per requirements saying the Government and Kenyans at large expect the unit to compliment others in ensuring the country’s security. Earlier, Uhuru, who was accompanied by Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa, presided over the official opening of the Kenya Army Band headquarters and the Kenya Defence Forces School of Music.