Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has lashed out at Deputy President William Ruto over his agenda of resettling squatters in the coast region. Ngilu said the DP has no capacity to address the land disputes “since he (Ruto) is the one who created some of them.” The governor said in the first administration of the Jubilee government, Ruto was the major setback in solving the protracted land wrangles for the coastal people. "We came here with President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue title deeds when I was a Lands Cabinet Secretary, but DP Ruto was against the exercise, yet you were suffering," she said. Speaking on Thursday in Matuga in Kwale, Ngilu said the Bottom-UP Economic Model by DP Ruto is meant to take resources from the bottom to the top, leaving the poor people with nothing. She added that DP’s wheelbarrow calls encourage laziness and poverty. "Imagine all his children are learned but want yours to push wheelbarrows, is that fair?"She posed. Ngilu said Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition presidential candidate Raila Odinga has the best agenda for the people of Kenya. She said the ODM leader will end the land problems, improve healthcare services, improve food security, ensure free education, and address the water shortage. Ngilu is on a six-day campaign in the Coast region popularising the Azimio One Kenya Alliance and drumming up support for Raila and his running mate Martha Karua. She was accompanied by Kwale County woman representative Zuleikha Hassan, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, and Taveta MP Naomi Shaban. Mboko said Ruto is not being sincere to the coastal people over his promise of returning the port operations back to Mombasa. She said the DP is just using the port issue to campaign for his election. Mboko said Ruto is a ‘hypocrite’ since he was supporting the idea of transferring the port services to Naivasha dry port. She said while in Navaisha the DP tells people that the port will provide locals with employment opportunities, and while in the Coast region, he says otherwise. "Isn't it hypocrisy, using the port to play with citizens' minds? Ruto told us that we don't understand port matters when we were opposing transfer of the services to Nairobi and Naivasha,” she said. She said the only person who can address coastal people's problems was Raila. Taveta MP Shaban said Raila has the support of many because his agendas are directed toward solving the challenges facing ordinary citizens.