The Uganda Judiciary has halted investigations into the academic qualifications of Nairobi Governor candidate Johnson Sakaja. This was after Team University, an institution of higher learning, from which Sakaja claimed he had obtained a degree moved to court seeking orders prohibiting the Ugandan government from investigating the matter. As a result, the high court on Tuesday issued interim orders restraining the Ugandan government from investigating the qualification awarded to Sakaja by Team . The case will be heard on July 14. Two cases had been  filed by the Kampala-based university, which is already the subject of an inquiry by the Ugandan Council for Higher Education (NCHE). The varsity had asked Justice Jamson Karemani of the High Court in Kampala to stop the NCHE from investigating the degree. Additionally, the degree's authenticity is also being questioned in Kenya. Sakaja’s degree in Uganda is being probed by two institutions, the Inspectorate of government and the National Council for Higher Education. However, on June 29, 2022 the NCHE, in a letter to the Commission of University Education (CEU), absolved itself of responsibility so that the Inspectorate of Government (IG) could finish its own investigation. “NCHE commenced investigations in order to determine the authenticity of the Bachelor of Science in Management (External) degree awarded to Sakaja Johnson Arthur by Team University. However, prior to completing our investigations, the IG also began investigations into the same matter hence suspending our action,” said NCHE executive director Prof Mary Okwakol. Back in Kenya, the governor hopeful's political life is on the line. A voter dragged him to court seeking to block the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) from printing Nairobi gubernatorial ballot papers until the case is heard and determined. On Monday, Sakaja urged the High Court to strike out a petition seeking to have him disqualified from the race. His lawyers, led by Elias Mutuma, tore into claims by petitioner Dennis Gakuru Wahome that Sakaja does not possess a university degree as required by law. It is a constitutional requirement that those seeking to become governor or their deputy must hold at least a degree from a recognised university. Sakaja submitted to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission a Bachelor of Science in Management degree from Team University in Uganda. This degree certificate forms the basis for Wahome's petition arguing the Nairobi senator was cleared to run on fake academic credentials. Wahome had asked High Court judge Antony Mrima to stop the IEBC from printing ballot papers for the Nairobi governor's race until his petition is determined. The judge declined the application. Wahome's lawyers led by Paul Nyamodi informed the court the degree certificate that Sakaja purportedly holds has been revoked by the Commission on University Education (CUE). Sakaja's lawyers said the revocation of the degree certificate was not material before the IEBC dispute resolution committee dismissed Wahome's petition. In his affidavit, Wahome had said the IEBC dispute resolution committee had dismissed his evidence that the Team University degree had been revoked by CUE. Nyamodi said Sakaja was aware of the commission's decision to revoke his degree certificate and that the dispute resolution committee acted unfairly in disregarding the evidence. Justice Mrima has set Friday, July 8 as the judgment date.