Former Nairobi Governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko claims he has made a deal with Deputy President William Ruto that has detailed a list of positions he will get from the Kenya Kwanza government. The agreement, Sonko claims, has brought into the mix Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, who is eyeing the Nairobi governor seat and UDA Mombasa governor candidate Hassan Omar. Sakaja has, however, told the Star that he has no deal with Sonko. The ex-governor revealed that he will now be campaigning for Sakaja for the Nairobi Governor seat and drop his bid for the Mombasa governor seat in favour of Omar. Sonko had earlier endorsed Igathe for the Nairobi governor seat. In consequence, the DP has promised the ex-governor one Cabinet Secretary, three principal secretaries and four ambassadorial posts if he wins the August 9, polls. In Nairobi, despite Sakaja's denial, Sonko claimed he will get two CECs and three chief officers' posts. Omar on the other hand has allegedly offered Sonko three CECs positions, and three chief officers. The new deal's details come after the DP announced that the governor had joined the Kenya Kwanza team. "We welcome Mike Sonko to Kenya Kwanza, the winning team," Ruto wrote on Facebook on Saturday. The move comes two days after Sonko said he will not back the ODM candidate Abdulswamad Nassir for the Mombasa governor seat. Sonko while reacting to the High Court ruling that upheld the decision not to clear him demanded the IEBC to allow his running mate Ali Mbogo to vie for the governor seat. He said if the wiper candidate is not on the ballot, he will not support Nassir. He warned that he will instead back UDA's Hassan Omar for the Mombasa governor seat. “It’s not about Sonko. Clear Ali Mbogo and let him be on the ballot, failure to which we shall support Hassan Omar. Take this to the bank,” he said. On Thursday, the former governor lost a bid to have his name included in ballot papers for the Mombasa gubernatorial race. He had petitioned the High Court to compel the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to include him on the ballot. However, a three-judge bench dismissed the argument of Sonko that he has an active appeal at the East Africa Court of Justice. The court agreed with IEBC’s interpretation of the Supreme Court ruling that had found him constitutionally unfit to hold office.