Diary, Back in medical college in the land of Washington, I worked part-time as a Nurse’s Aid at an old folk’s home. It was a thankless, unglamorous job taking care of invalids: washing, bathing them and changing adult diapers. But it paid the bills and prepared me for the real world. Also, there was Shaniqua. My workmate, she was a young black mother of two, pretty, hardworking and extremely funny. But Shaniqua also had an ex-husband larger than a mountain gorilla and twice as ugly. Still, I was always glad to be at work when Shaniqua was on the clock. One day, in the breakroom together, one thing led to another and suddenly we locked lips. I’d be remiss not to admit that kiss remains one of the best I’ve ever had. Possibilities of a budding romance crested. We would all go bowling the day most of the staff had a day off. One day, we bowled, drunk and had the merriest time. At 10pm, and we had to leave. Having no car, Shaniqua asked me to drop her home. “And if you’re a good boy,” she said, “you might get yourself some-some tonight.” I couldn’t wait for us to get to her place. Once there, she asked me to wait in the car for a minute as she went up and made sure her kids were asleep. A few minutes later, my phone beeped. It was Shaniqua. “Tom, you gotta leave. Now!” “What’s the problem?” “My ex is here and he’s actin’ a fool.” “Are you okay?” “I am, but you won’t be if you stay there. He’s on his way down with a gun.” I burned rubber out of the place, but my small Capri was no match for the man’s Escalade. He caught up with me on the highway, drove abreast and pointed the gun at me through the window. I stepped on it, weaving in and out of the scant night traffic to put vehicles between us. I got off my exit, then realised I was leading the man right to my house. So I drove into a 24/7 grocery store (supermarket), parked, and ran inside. I walked idly along the isles, hoping to lose the guy. He peeked at me from one corner, raising his shirt to display the gun in his belt. I ran out, got into my car and drove off, taking a circuitous route home. After that night, every time I saw Shaniqua, I took to the hills.