Maxine Wahome is the LG/SJAK Sports Personality of the Month of June. The trailblazing Kenyan lady driver achieved the feat after becoming the first-ever African woman to win the WRC3 category during the WRC Safari Rally Kenya held in June. Wahome’s winning performance was made all the more impressive by the fact she had never driven the Ford Fiesta Rally3 car on gravel before the fabled Kenyan fixture. To win the monthly award, Maxine beat several other nominees including Rugby Driftwood 7s MVP Daniel Taabu and African 100m record holder Ferdinand Omanyala who timed 9.93 to win gold in the men’s 100m at the Senior Africa Athletics Championship in Reduit, Mauritius. In winning the June award, Maxine received a personalised trophy and an LG Intelligent washing machine worth Sh 85,000. In an interview, she said: “It's such a great feeling to be crowned the monthly winner more so in a field where Kenya’s long and middle distance runners have reigned supreme globally.” She added: “My goal during Safari Rally was just to learn the car more and improve on my speed and driving lines. However, I am glad I delivered the all-important win incidentally on my second appearance at the iconic event." “Wednesday of the rally week was my first time in the car because I normally drive a Subaru Impreza N12. The only testing I got with the car was on the tarmac, which is completely different to the Safari.” Wahome’s rally dream nearly stalled in the Friday itinerary when she was sidelined by an engine control unit fault on the final test. However, the youngster was able to restart on Saturday and reclaimed the top spot as her rivals came unstuck. Wahome joins the growing list of 2022 sports personalities to win the monthly award, including tennis star Angela Okutoyi in January, Junior WRC’s McRae Kimathi in February, Japan’s Nagoya Marathon winner Ruth Chepng’etich in March, April’s Boston Marathon men’s winner Evans Chebet and national volleyball team lady star Sharon Chepchumba in May. LG Electronics East Africa Marketing Manager Changhyun Kim congratulated Maxine for her fairy tale feat. Kim remarked: “LG Electronics East Africa is proud to be associated with Kenya’s talented sports personalities who continue to excel both in Kenya and overseas.” He said: “Maxine’s feat has inspired countless other women across the globe to approach the male-dominated sport with the much-needed resilience and gusto.” As a corporate entity, we are glad that this award continues to reward excellence over and above positioning juniors and women athletes as the future of sport in the country.”