Nairobi City Stars midfielder Elvis Noor Ojiambo is targeting more starting berths next season. Reflecting on the 2021/22 Premier League season, Ojiambo said he and his team had a good season but he would have been happy with some more starts. “It’s been a good season. I can’t complain though the last five matches were tough,” said Ojiambo while refering to fixtures against Tusker, KCB, Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards and FC Talanta. “It took a lot of character to maneuvre through those final games. On a personal level, I am glad that I was featured in most of them. As an individual, I will work towards earning more games next season.” Ojiambo, in his second Kenyan top-flight season, featured in 14 games in the concluded term registering seven starts. He was unused six times and managed to clock 635 minutes. Even though he featured in 11 games less, compared to his debut premiership season in 2020/21, his returns were better this time round as he provided two assists on his way to picking three notable Most Valuable Player mentions. Last season he managed an assist and one MVP mention. In these final fixtures, City Stars collected three points for a cumulative total of 49, which saw them finish fifth. Simba wa Nairobi lost to both KCB and Gor Mahia by identical 3-2 margins and drew the other three against Tusker (0-0), AFC Leopards (1-1) and FC Talanta (2-2). At the same time, Kenyan U20 trialist budding keeper Elvis Ochoro is elated after making his debut in the just-concluded season. “I am happy to have made my Premier League debut. It took two seasons for it to come. My first game was an eye-opener and I’ll take many lessons home. There’s a lot to learn from but I must say the taste of top-flight football is exciting. I want more,” added Ochoro. Before his debut arrived, Ochoro was, collectively, an unused sub in 32 FKF Premier League games — 18 times last season, and 14 in the just-ended season. Ochoro, signed from Hakati Sportif in 2020 on a long-term deal, became the 30th player fielded this term by head coach Nicholas Muyoti and his debut came just weeks after forwards Rowland Makati and Mohammed Bajaber were introduced to the top flight.