The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has filed a suit seeking to recover Sh25 million allegedly embezzled by Turkana county officials through a private entity. In documents filed at the Milimani law courts, EACC claims Amailo Investment Company Limited was paid Sh25 million by the county government for goods not supplied. The company was to supply the county with 6,024 bags (25kgs) of corn soya blend. Investigations conducted by the agency revealed the officials were Amailo directors and were using the company to trade with their employer. The company from 2014 to 2021 received Sh186 million from the county government. The money was deposited in the company’s Equity Bank account number. Part of that money comprises the Sh25 million paid to Amailo for goods not supplied. High Court Judge Esther Maina prohibited the company from dealing with the funds in its bank account pending determination on whether the funds are proceeds of corruption. EACC in the suit has sued the company, Mathew Kipchumba Kipkemei, Grace Murei, Samuel Eregae, James Arono Chegem, Esther Lokai Elim, Elim Peter Epagan and Peter Ekorot Endapal Esther Lokai Elim, according to the agency, is the county accountant general. She is legally restricted by law to do business with the county, she however had a private interest in Amailo’s contracts with the county and has been trading with the county through her relatives. The court documents reveal that between February 2013 and September 2019, she was Amailo's director. However, she allegedly resigned. EACC said her purported resignation on September 29, 2019, was a cover-up since investigations have revealed that she is still running the company through her husband Elim Peter Epagan. However, Epagan who resigned as a director from the company continues to manage the company’s finances in its Equity bank account. Esther’s father-in-law Peter Endapal is currently the Amailo director. Initially, EACC had in an application filed in Eldoret sought preservation orders in respect of the subject bank account, the same was allowed for six months from September 8, 2021. The preservation orders expired  March 8, 2022, and have in the interim been extended to July 19, 2022. “That because the preservation orders are to expire on July 19, we are reasonably apprehensive that the company shall seek to transfer or withdraw all the funds in Equity Bank Account, to frustrate any order that may be passed against it,” the commission said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris