The general election is set to disrupt the school calendar as a number of learning institutions will be used as tallying centres. Most of the institutions are primary, secondary schools, universities and technical training institutes. Several circulars and messages seen by the Star have revealed that schools that will serve as tallying centres will break for midterm on Monday. “To all parents, students will break fof midterm on Monday 1/8/2022 at 8am as the school has been identified as a tallying centre,” the message reads. Schools that will not serve as tallying centres will release students for half-term break on August 5. “Dear parent, please come and pick up your daughter (name withheld) on Thursday 4/8/2022 by 9am. The resumption date will be communicated later,” the message reads. Another school that is not a tallying centre will release learners on Friday, August 5. The Ministry of Education's school calendar had previously directed that learners break on August 11 and resume after three days. However, due to the election set for August 9, the students will not be able to continue with their studies between August 1 and August 10. According to a gazette notice from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, almost 250 schools will be used as tallying centres. In the second schedule of county tallying centres, 15 out of the 47 counties will have the tallying centres in schools. “The counties are Mombasa, Embu, Kiambu, Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, Kakamega, Tana River, Nyeri, Kapsabet, Vihiga,” the notice reads. Others are Machakos, Isiolo, Murang'a, Laikipia and Nyamira. The schools are Bandari Maritime Academy, Mau Mau Secondary, Isiolo Boys, Kangaru Girls, Nyeri Primary, Kiambu High, Kitale School Girls’, Kapsabet Boys, Nanyuki High, Nakuru Boys, Kakamega High, Chavakali High and Kebirigo Boys. According to IEBC another 17 institutions of higher education will be used as county tallying centres. “The counties are Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Garissa, Baringo, Kericho, Busia, Garissa, Makueni, Narok, Bomet, Kisumu and Turkana,” the notice reads. Others are Uasin Gishu, Kajiado, Bungoma, Homa Bay, Migori and Kisii counties. The institutions are Pwani University, Taita Taveta University, Garissa University, Wote TTI, Turkana University College, Eldoret Polytechnic, Maasai Mara University and Masaai TTI. Others are St Giuseppina Bakhita TTI, Mabanga Farmers Training College, Busia ATC, Tom Mboya Labour College, Tom Mboya University College, Migori TTC, Kisii Polytechnic and Kericho TTC. Out of the 290 constituencies, 230 schools in the listed constituencies will be used as third schedule constituency tallying centres.