Eldoret town loses Sh450 million annually through wastage, leakage and theft of water, a water firm official has said. Eldoret Water and Sanitation Company CEO Peter Biwott said the company has initiated the Linda Maji Mtaani initiative to help deal with  theft and wastage. “We initiated the Linda Maji Mtaani initiative so that we can help a woman, a girl or a resident access water as we reduce or eliminate rationing,” he said in Eldoret. Biwott said the initiative was aimed at curbing illegal connections. He said Eldoret and its environs were facing shortages of water because the company supplied about 43 million litres of water out of which about 16.5 million litres was either stolen or lost through leakages. This is against a demand of 60 million litres of water for the town. He warned the country risks suffering from serious effects of climate change and water shortages if joint efforts are not undertaken to conserve the environment and stop wastage of water resources. Kenya loses more than Sh11 billion annually through wastage and theft of water. On climate change, Biwott said there was a need for real action from all Kenyans to reverse the situation. The company is participating in tree planting activities in forests and all other water sources in the region. “Let’s all be proactive and partner so we can move from rhetoric to action. We don't have time. Our land is fast degrading, the population is fast-growing and unless something is done, our water catchment areas will be depleted,” Biwott said. The water firm boss said if action is not taken, Eldoret and other towns will become water deficient and such a situation would affect all other economic activities. Biwott said due to climate change, many dams have experienced a drop in water levels. “We need to move with speed to conserve our 177,000 hectares (437,376 acres) catchment area in this region. This will guarantee us a water secure environment in our region,” he said. He said the company was working to fully implement laws in the water sector and those found messing up in Eldoret would face punitive action. “If you are found stealing water, you pay as a household a penalty of Sh30,000 and commercial entity Sh100,000 and an estimation of water used since you connected illegally including use of sewer without authorisation,” Biwott said. Eldowas has been carrying out raids against illegal connections. Residents have complained of harassment by the company and poor quality of water but Biwott said issues to do with quality were being taken seriously. “However we urge residents to pay bills so that we can offer effective services as a company,” Biwott said. Edited by A.N