The 2017 World Under-18 Championships 800m silver medalist, Nelly Jepchirchir wants to emulate her mentor Janeth Jepkosgei when she parades at the World Under-20 Championships in Cali, Colombia. Jepkosgei won a gold medal in the women’s 800m race in Kingston, Jamaica in 2002 at a time of 2:00.80. During the national trials, Jepchirchir clocked 2:02.66 to secure the first position ahead of Evelyne Chepkoech who came second in 2:04.90. Jepchirchir said she owes her success to Jepkosgei, who coincidentally is her coach. Jepchirchir has been training under the tutelage of Jepkosgei since 2015 when she was in class seven. “Janeth is my role model and she has helped me to be where I am today. My target is to break her record and come back home with a gold medal,” Jepchirchir said. “I have improved my running style and I am happy to have improved my personal best too,” she said. Jepchirchir also expressed her excitement to be part of the Team Kenya that will be representing Kenya in Colombia. “I am very excited to be representing my country in Colombia. I am going to work hard in Cali and ensure I come back with a gold medal,” Jepchirchir said. Meanwhile, Daniel Kimaiyo was equally over the moon after placing first in the men’s 1500m in 3:36.09. He said the fact that they train together with Emmanuel Wanyonyi has helped him learn a lot of new tactics. “I am very happy to have won this race. Wanyonyi advised me to come and do my best and I have not let him down,” Kimaiyo said. The 19-year-old completed his high school education in 2020 and is currently training at Kapsabet with coach Jepkosgei. Kimaiyo participated in last year’s trials and was placed seventh in the men’s 800m race. “I changed to 1,500m because 800m was tough for me. It is also the reason I failed to make the team to last year’s championships,” he said. Kimaiyo looks up to the Olympic Games gold medallist Conseslus Kipruto for motivation. “I love watching Kipruto because he gives me the morale to keep pushing on. He is also my adviser,” Kimaiyo concluded.