Some 15,000 needy students in Thika have received Sh35 million bursaries from the National Government Constituency Development Fund. The money comes as a relief to cash-strained parents who are struggling to settle second-term school fees for their children. Thika MP Patrick Wainaina disbursed the cheques at Mugumo-ini Primary School in Thika town. Wainaina said the funds will benefit parents whose jobs or sources of income have been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the high cost of living. “Most parents are grappling with the high cost of living to a point that they can hardly provide two meals a day and some are yet to recover from the Covid-19 shocks to cater for their children education needs," he said. However, Wainaina, noted that the amount given was too meagre to offset arrears owed by the parents to schools, students received as low as Sh2,500. “Even though the money will help offset some of the fees arrears, it’s too little compared to what the schools are demanding from parents. You’ll find a student has arrears of Sh40,000 and we just give them Sh3,500, it won’t help much,” he said. The lawmaker said constitutional amendments to release more funds to highly populated areas will save parents the burden of shouldering hefty school fees. “In other constituencies, students are getting close to Sh50,000 yet they contribute little in taxes. These are some of the issues and imbalances that should be addressed through the constitution,” Wainaina said. He also quipped that during his tenure, at least Sh140 million has been disbursed to needy learners. Parents who benefited said the funds were a shot-in-arm for most of them, who are currently facing economic challenges. “Even putting food on the table has become a tall order. Things are tough for most of us and we are grateful for the little we have received,” Susan Wanjiku, a parent said. The parents also urged the government to make swift interventions that will see the cost of living lower. (Edited by Tabnacha O)