Women leaders in Kenya have been struggling to advance their numbers and representation in leadership for a long time. The journey to representation has been slow and painful, and the future still looks bleak as we are about to have the third General Election under the 2010 Constitution. Women leaders have even united occasionally, putting aside their political differences for a while to pursue their dream. After the 2017 General Election, many women political aspirants were left disgruntled. Among them was Margaret Toili, a Member of Parliament aspirant from Bungoma county. Toili was not happy with the outcome of the 2017 elections and was going to do something about it. She felt it was about time that the much-needed representation of women, youth and other vulnerable groups was seen in Parliament. "The elections made me feel that women, youth and persons with disabilities needed a defender. It's as if people are oblivious of the recognition the Constitution gives us," she said. She felt it was solely upon her to be that defender and help uphold the 2010 Constitution. She felt that only women understood the struggles they go through while vying for various seats, so only a fellow woman can fully articulate that. So Toili, backed up by other women leaders, petitioned Parliament over the matter under Article 81 B. "That article says that either gender should not exceed two-thirds of Parliament's population, and also articles 27 and 100, which further guarantee the representation of youth, persons with disabilities and other minority groups," she said. Toili said Parliament was very close to achieving two-thirds, with only 11 female members of parliament left to reach it, while the Senate only had three women left. "There were 222 Members of Parliament. However, the remaining 11 seats that would have made two-thirds possible were not clinched by women," she said. She explains that Parliament has 349 available seats and only 75 of those seats are women's. Some 47 out of 75 of those seats are Woman Representative seats for each of the counties, while the rest were elected and nominated. "With those numbers, there was no way that if women speak up about issues pertaining to women, they will be heard or supported," she said. That was in 2018, Toili said, and Parliament postponed the hearing of the petition until February 2019. A week before the hearing, Parliament was quiet about the petition, so Toili sent in another one. She claims the two petitions were taken up by Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, which he dubbed Political Mileage Bills 1 and 2. "Our main purpose as women leaders was to see that the petition was heard and acted upon. But even after that, it did not pass as a bill," she said. "The Speaker of the National Assembly said so causally that the bill had flopped once again. But there was nothing casual about that. I decided to go higher, to the heart of Justice." As anyone can petition the President of the Judiciary, the Chief Justice, Toili petitioned the then Chief Justice, David Maraga, on behalf of women, youth and persons with disability in Kenya. "The Chief Justice took the petitions to Parliament and the Senate, and the Houses wrote back to him that they needed more time," she said. With this move, more petitioners came on board to push for a satisfactory solution to the representation question. They were calling for immediate action. "Ten years after the 2010 Constitution was passed and they say they need more time. I couldn't understand what they were doing for all the 10 years since. I told the Chief Justice that there was no more time," she said. That is when Chief Justice Maraga wrote to President Uhuru Kenyatta over the petition from Toili and her fellow petitioners. "Maraga explained that Parliament had failed to fulfil our wishes as petitioners to uphold the two-thirds gender rule and representation of youth and other vulnerable groups, and should, therefore, be dissolved for not reaching its constitutional mandate," she said. Unfortunately, nothing came from the Chief Justice's petition to the President. But Toili said that that shall not be the end of that matter. "Kenyan women are not relenting, they will keep pushing. I am prepared to petition the next Parliament over the same thing if these elections leave women, youth and persons with disability without adequate representation," she said. "We shall go to court again because we have not yet gotten Parliament or Senate's ruling on our petition." Toili, who is running for a Woman Representative seat in Bungoma, said that if two-thirds is not implemented, then she would rather not vie and continue fighting for women, youth and persons with disabilities.