UDA presidential candidate William Ruto will on Monday lead Kenya Kwanza’s vote-hunting mission in Bungoma and Kakamega counties as his rival Raila Odinga tours Narok county on a similar mission. Ruto’s Kakamega campaign comes just two days after his Azimio la Umoja opponent pitched tent in the county on Friday and Saturday to woo the Mulembe nation. An itinerary released by Ruto’s campaign team indicates that while the Deputy President will be traversing the western counties, his running mate Rigathi Gachagua will be in Meru county where he will hold rallies in North Imenti, Tigania West and Tigania East constituencies. The DP will start his tour at Naitiri in Tongaren constituency at 9:00 am before heading to Kamasielo in Kimilili constituency at 10:30 am. He is later scheduled to address a rally at Kimwanga in Bumula constituency before moving to Harambee in Matungu constituency at 1:30 am. At 3 pm, the Kenya Kwanza caravan is expected to pitch tent at Lusheya in Mumias East constituency before the alliance heads to Bukura in Butere constituency at 4:30 pm for the day’s last rally. With just 28 days to go to the August 9 general election, Raila and Ruto have intensified their campaigns with each holding back-to-back rallies. This week, Raila and his running mate Martha Karua will hold another five-day campaign blitz that will take them through Narok, Taita Taveta, Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi counties until Friday. The 2022 general election has been touted as the most competitive with a lot at stake for the two leading presidential contenders. Raila is making his fifth, and probably, last attempt at becoming Kenya’s commander-in-chief while the DP is on his maiden attempt to occupy State House, failure to which he will be secluded in the opposition at least for the next five years. On Sunday, Raila and his running mate Martha Karua stormed Bomet and Kericho counites where the Azimio flag bearer promised to revive collapsed industries and prioritise anti-corruption policies if elected president. “Viwanda vingine tutaanzisha...na hizo viwanda vitatoa ajira nyingi sana kwa vijana wetu (we will establish more industries which will offer a lot of job opportunities for our youth),” Raila said. The ODM leader added that the Azimio administration has an elaborate plan to curb the rising cost of living. Ruto on the other hand popularised his bottom up economic model in Turkana county for the second day running on Sunday by holding rallies in Kaikor, Lokichogio, Kakuma and Lodwar towns. Ruto called on his Azimio rival to respect the independence of the IEBC and let the commission execute its mandate without interference. “If you say you have no confidence in the IEBC, if you say that you can’t participate in elections without a manual register, please withdraw and let the rest of us participate in the elections,” Ruto said. He assured the electorate of peaceful and democratic elections saying Kenya Kwanza has confidence in institutions of governance. Campaigns are expected to reach fever pitch in the coming days after the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Sunday gazetted names of candidates vying for various seats.