Mitihani House whose construction started in 1985 is finally complete and will be commissioned on Friday. Education CS George Magoha is expected to grace the opening of Mitihani House, which is located in South C, behind National Environment Management Authority offices. Kenya National Examinations Council CEO David Njeng'ere previously committed to ensuring the building is complete before the end of this year. “We have moved Knec head office and all our services to the new Mitihani House,” reads a Twitter statement from the council. This is even as MPs have directed that Sh200 million be deducted from the construction of the building. According to a report from the National Assembly budget committee, the project has been allocated Sh900 million in the last two financial years. "However, there is no tangible progress which has been recorded in terms of fast-tracking the completion of the project to make it functional," the report reads. The new building has received more than Sh2.5 billion since 2016 for its construction. Knec had requested another Sh2 billion up to the financial year 2024-25 for its construction. Njeng'ere narrated the challenges that have been hindering the completion of Mitihani House. He said when he took over on July 1 last year he was met with a court order. “The first thing I found on my desk was a case at the procurement tribunal to explain the circumstances in which one of the contractors had not been awarded his dues for the previous financial year,” Njeng'eresaid. A year later, another contractor filed a case against the council over pending bills. “This financial year we had a court case where there was an injunction that there should be no construction in that building,” Njeng'ere said. He said the National Treasury advised Knec to settle the pending bills with the contractor before proceeding. “I'm sure that is what every Kenyan has desired to achieve, we wouldn’t have reached there if we would have ignored the advice from the Treasury that we need to sort the pending bill,” Njeng'ere said. 