Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa has warned Bungoma residents against transacting fake land deals, which lead to boundary conflicts. Eugene warned residents against such deals, saying the legal landowner should possess a title deed registered under his name. The CS raised concern about the number of residents in Bungoma who lack title deeds. He spoke on Tuesday at Bumula airstrip during the issuance of title deeds to the residents. “Many people are staying on pieces of land that aren’t recognised at the Ministry of Lands, therefore, I ask you all to ensure that you have a title deed for your plot to avoid future complains,” he said. “Many title deeds are lying at land offices. Those who had applied for the deeds should ensure they pick them.” He praised the Jubilee government for issuing six million title deeds during the time they have been in office. “The Jubilee government took the matter of title deeds seriously,” the CS said. He said since the administration took over leadership in 2013 up to date it has been able to issue 69,000 title deeds in Bungoma saying he will traverse different counties and issue title deeds. “I am here in Bungoma, then I will go to Busia and other counties,” the CS said. Eugene urged deputy county commissioners and chiefs to sensitise the community on the importance of having title deeds. He urged lawyers to lower the legal fee so that families that fail to raise funds are supported to access title deeds. “I know that some families may fail to raise the required legal fees, therefore, I appeal to lawyers to help some of them get the documents for the processing of title deeds,” the CS said. Eugene said some constituencies in Bungoma are too big and need to be divided saying the funds released by the National Treasury to constituency NG-CDF aren’t enough to pay fees for the needy students. “Allocation of funds from the national treasury is insufficient to run projects within the constituency,” he said. Eugene said the government is working towards dividing some constituencies in Bungoma. He urged Bungoma to rally behind Raila's presidential bid.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris