ODM MPs from Nyanza on Friday hit out at IEBC, warning the commission's chairman Wafula Chebukati against engaging in any monkey business ahead of the general election. The Chebukati-led commission is currently in the eye of a storm over the preparations for the next month's election. Speaking during the burial of South Gem ward ODM candidate Nick Wanga, the leaders who included Senator James Orengo ( Siaya), MPs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Otiende Amolo (Rarieda) and Dr Oburu Odinga ( EALA) asked Chebukati to ensure whatever the commission does was in line with the Constitution. Senator Orengo who fired the first salvo against Chebukati warned that the chairman was living on borrowed times if he continues to run the commission without being transparent. "Let Chebukati know that there's still room to deal with the commission, even replacing them if they don't want to cooperate," Orengo said. Senator Orengo noted that the Constitution require the commission to carry out a free, fair and transparent election and that's what the Azimio brigade is relentlessly insisting on. "I want to remind the chairman that there exist avenues and provisions within the Constitution on how to deal with the commission. IEBC is not above the law. Be reminded that you are living on borrowed time if you continue with those acts of deception and falsehoods," Orengo said. Orengo said they are confident that the Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga will win the August 9 poll and the coalition is keen to ensure the electoral agency carries out a free and fair election. "We want to beat DP William Ruto hands down in round one and we have to ensure the commission is kept in check so that all loopholes that a petitioner can exploit to challenge Raila's victory are sealed," he said. Orengo said their competitors have panicked after sensing defeat. The ODM leaders observed that the Azimio camp was concerned that each time IEBC is on the spot, their opponents in the Kenya Kwanza, which is affiliated to William Ruto are quick to spring to the commission's defence. "We are reading the same tone in IEBC statements and those made by Kenya Kwanza brigade and we are asking ourselves, what do they know in Ruto's camp that we aren't aware of?" Orengo posed. Addressing mourners at Kasagoma village, Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo demanded that the commission must immediately release the audited voters register for Kenyans to scrutinise. "Since the KPMG finished the audit, the IEBC has not been forthcoming in releasing the report in a way that's verifiable," he said. He also urged the commission to release details of the newly created polling stations across the country. "It is important that each voter knows in advance, where they will vote," he said. Commenting on the Venezuelans arrested at JKIA, Otiende noted that it was within the jurisdiction of the police to arrest any person found in possession of election-related materials. "It appears so far, that IEBC is operating in an opaque manner and cannot condemn the police for doing their work," he said. Opiyo Wandayi accused IEBC of releasing political statements instead of acting as a neutral arbiter. "There's no way a commission that should be a neutral arbiter can issue a statement that amounts to a political pronouncement, employing a language used in political rallies," Wandayi said. He said it was strange that each time IEBC makes a mistake, it is the Ruto's UDA camp that jumps to its defense. The leaders asked supporters of Raila Odinga to turn out in large numbers on the polling day to vote for the Azimio presidential candidate. They noted that the focus is to ensure there's no runoff. Other leaders who attended the burial of the ODM candidate who was a younger brother to Kisumu City manager Abala Wanga included Speaker George Okode, Jalang'o Midiwo and a host of other leaders from Siaya County.