Azimio top guns in Kitui appear to have taken different pathways in their preferences for governor candidates threatening to throw haywire the outfit's performance in the August 9 polls in the county. The split makes it difficult to galvanise votes for Azimio-Oka presidential candidate Raila Odinga across Kitui. The two, Kalonzo Musyoka and Governor Charity Ngilu are pulling in different directions because they support different candidates for the seat. Having been promised plum jobs should Raila win, the duo would be expected to form a united front to ensure Raila and by extension Azimio- One Kenya Alliance votes in Kitui are not divided. Ngilu has vouched for Jubilee governor candidate David Musila while Kalonzo wants pioneer Kitui governor Julius Malombe to succeed Ngilu. It is feared that the different positions taken may not only cost Azimio votes but work to the advantage of the only other Kitui governor aspirant Jonathan Mueke of UDA. That is likely to happen if Azimio's supporters will go to the polls divided on whom to vote for between Malombe and Musila depending on whether they support Ngilu or Kalonzo's standpoints. During a recent campaign tour of Kitui, Raila endorsed Malombe as the Azimio candidate for Kitui governor seat. He addressed rallies at Mutha, Mutomo, Kitui town and Mwingi town. Raila appreciated that people were enthusiastic to replace Ngilu with Malombe. It was then that he announced that Ngilu would not be defending her seat as he would give her a job in the national government if elected. At the Mwingi town rally that was the last stop in his itinerary, he paraded Malombe before the crowd and endorsed his candidature. Although Ngilu was present during Malombe's endorsement, she appears not to support Raila's preferred candidate. In what is perceived as an open revolt against the person she expects would give her a soft-landing, Ngilu supports Musila's candidature. About a fortnight ago, Ngilu summoned Musila to his Ithookwe village home on the outskirts of Kitui town where she introduced him to a congregation of her die-hard supporters as her preferred successor. Ngilu is said to have asked her henchmen to back and campaign for Musila to win the seat. Details of the closed-door meeting at Ngilu's home that saw Musila cut short his campaign programme to Katulani area of Kitui Central are scanty. However, sources said for the support Musila would get from Ngilu, he would pay back by absorbing Ngilu's adherents in his administration once elected. As Ngilu pulls all stops and deploys all material resources at her disposal to make Musila the winner, Kalonzo wants the people of Kitui to elect Malombe. On Saturday, Kalonzo was in Kitui where he campaigned for Raila. During his rallies at Tulia and Kyuso towns, Kalonzo likened the position he has been promised in the Raila administration to that of a  military general who needs the support of a formidable platoon of foot soldiers. “I need bargaining power. I know you have stood with me all the while I have been in politics. Do not let me down. Please vote for Wiper candidates. Let us make sure it is six-piece for Wiper,” he said. Kalonzo said would be reclaimed and restored by the able leadership of Malombe and his running mate Augustine Kanani.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris