Joseph Irungu alias Jowie looked disturbed when he came from Monica Kimani's house on the night she was murdered, the court was told. Chief inspector Maxwell Otieno told the court Jowie’s friend Jennings Orlando, a GSU officer, told them he saw him when he came back from Monica’s house that night. Otieno told Justice Grace Nzioka that when he interrogated Orlando, he confessed that on that day he was with Jowie and three other friends at Road House Grill. He later left with Jowie using Jacque Maribe’s car and dropped him at a place on Lenana Road where it's believed he took a cab to Lamuria Gardens. Orlando, who was driving Jowie, said while in the car at some point he (Jowie) reached for a gun that was near the dashboard. He changed into a Kanzu in that vehicle. Otieno further told the court that Orlando said he waited for Jowie at a petrol station and when he finally came back, he looked disturbed. When he asked him what the problem was, Jowie is alleged to have told him that he had a disagreement with a lady friend he had gone to see, who police believe was Monica. Orlando said they left the area and used Mbagathi Road. They fuelled Maribe’s car at a petrol station along that road and he was later dropped by Jowie, and they parted ways. Otieno told the court that on September 19, Monica had come back from South Sudan and she was dropped off by a cab from the airport at around 7pm. A few hours later, at around 8.30pm Jowie is alleged to have been dropped at Lamuria Gardens by a cab. Otieno said the security guard on duty that night told them that the man, who police believe was Jowie, went to the gate and produced an ID with the name Dominic. Police later found that the ID used to enter Monica’s house had been stolen from a casual worker at Royal Park Estate where Jowie stayed with Maribe. The guard told police that the man who went into Monica’s house told him that he did not have a phone, so they called Monica who told them to allow the man into the compound. “We established that it was Jowie who used a fake ID to enter Lamuria. The guard described him as being a brown person and had a styled beard,” Otieno said. Otieno also told Justice Nzioka that after Jowie shot himself the night after the murder, he didn’t report to the police until the next day when he went to claim that he had been shot by thugs. The inspector also told the court there were two statements by Maribe on the alleged shooting. In one of them, she says he was shot by thugs and in the other, she states that Jowie shot himself in her house. (Edited by Tabnacha O)