When packing for a vacation as a woman, there are essential pieces that should not miss your backpack or suitcase. The items are not only classified in number but also type of destination for the vacation. For instance, when travelling to areas with high temperatures, one is expected to carry light outfits but carry one warm sweater. For colder areas, one is advised to carry warm outfits that will not ruin the fun. FIVE TOPS These tops should be selected from a wide range of designs. This will help you match the top with any versatile bottom, be it pants or skirts. Top designs to be carried include spaghetti top, vest top, V-neck T-shirt, fancy blouse and crazy top (with hanging sides). FOUR BOTTOMS These include leggings, skirts, short and jeans. Bottoms should be carefully selected to ensure they can match any of the five tops. Four of them will work if one of the bottoms has a dull colour and, therefore, is versatile. THREE SHOES When choosing types of shoes to carry, ensure you have one for dinner. Most people forget this aspect and end up wearing sandals to dinner. Chunky heels will work well for dinner. Also, carry a pair of sandals and a pair of sneakers or rubbers. You should not carry one type of shoes, mix them. THREE DRESSES This category is mostly for evening plans like a night out or dinner. If your vacation is full of activities, like hiking, then you can only wear dresses in the evening. Carry one shift dress, body con dress and a skater dress. Due to storage issues, do not burden yourself with several earrings, just carry one. In case your hormones react to the environmental change, then don't forget your tampons, just in case Mother Nature decides to visit. TWO SWIMSUITS This category has items that are mostly carried, according to preference and destination. You can’t fail to carry sunglasses and swimsuits to a hot destination. Unless you don’t plan to swim, then you can leave behind the swimsuits. They should be a pair because of convenience; you won’t have to wash a swimsuit in case you carried one. For a watch, carry one because you might lose track of time in case you do not carry one. Then again, you are going to have fun, not to check time like you are working. One bag should help you carry small essentials during the day while running errands, and another one will remain in the hotel room.