Police are investigating an incident in which six people were injured in a chaotic incident that happened in the Homa Bay Town constituency. The six people including five men and one woman were injured when supporters of independent candidate George Miyare and those of Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma, who is defending his seat on the ODM ticket, confronted each other. The violence occurred in Miyare’s home at Pedo village, Arujo Location on Friday. Miyare accused Kaluma of provoking him. He claimed that Kaluma incited his supporters who went to his home and began assaulting his (Miyare’) supporters. “My supporters visited me in my home to have a talk but before our meeting started, Kaluma’s supporters came and began assaulting them. They beat them up using some crude weapons,” Miyare said. The confrontation led to injuries of the six people allied to Miyare. “Apart from assaulting my supporters, they poured down porridge and githeri (mixture of maize and beans) that had been prepared for my supporters to eat. This is against the Luo culture and traditions, ” he said. Those who were injured were treated in different health facilities in Homa Bay town. Miyare condemned the incident saying it is wrong for a candidate to attack his colleague at home. “What has happened here is a sign of disrespect to residents of Homa Bay Town constituency. Our political competition shouldn’t go personal,” he added. Miyare recorded a statement at Homa Bay Police station. He also reported the matter to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in the Homa Bay Town constituency. “What happened is an electoral offence. Let the relevant authorities take the appropriate action,” he added. However, Kaluma dismissed the accusations saying Miyare is not a strong competitor saying he did not attack him. “He should look elsewhere for the people who assaulted his supporters,” Kaluma said. Homa Bay Sub-County Police Commander Sammy Koskey said they had received Miyare’s complaints. Koskey said they had begun investigating the matter. “They reported the matter and we are investigating it,” Koskey said.