Promotion chasing National Super League club, Fortune Sacco, have protested the decision by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee to award rivals Shabana their abandoned match. Fortune and Shabana were set to flex muscles at Kianyaga Stadium on June 1, at 3 pm. However, the match failed to kick off as planned given the Madaraka Day function hosted at the venue on that day went past the scheduled time. Shabana went on to lodge an appeal and the Transition Committee returned a verdict in their favour. The Committee decided to award the Kisii-based side three points and two goals and communicated its verdict in a letter dated July 1. Subsequently, the NSL log was updated to reflect the development. “From the foregoing, the FKF-TC notifies both clubs that Fortune Sacco forfeits the match in favour of Shabana FC under rule 3.3.2 of the FKF rules and regulations. Consequently, Shabana is awarded three points and two goals” read the letter signed by the head of secretariat Lindah Ogutu. But Fortune have bitterly faulted the Committee's decision, terming it unjust and misleading. The Kirinyaga-based side wrote to the committee's Independent Appeals and Disciplinary Committee (IDAC), saying it rushed to a verdict before taking time to listen to both sides. "Contrary to what is stated in the letter from the head of the secretariat that the function ended at 4.30 pm, the County Commissioner concluded his speech some minutes to 4 pm and within a short time — around 10 to 15 minutes — the field was cleared and ready for the match. “Note that checking of players for both teams was done at 3 pm and as such, the players were ready to walk onto the pitch as soon as the function ended,” the letter read in part. In its ruling, the committee noted it had received substantial evidence that the Madaraka Day function ended at 4:30 pm. The contentious three points propelled Shabana to the third spot with 53 points. Fortune — with 60 points — remain second behind APS Bomet who top the table with 63 points. 