The Swimming Stabilisation Committee has lined up a stakeholders meeting later this month as they explore ways of resolving the impasse in the Kenya Swimming Federation. Speaking on Tuesday, National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) secretary, Francis Mutuku, said they will be hoping to get a representative from Fina to address the stakeholders. Mutuku was appointed to the committee alongside Jace Naidoo of South Africa and Uganda's Benon Mwase. “We are hoping to have someone from Fina come and speak to the stakeholders and reach a consensus,” said Mutuku. He said he will have a consultative meeting with Benon Mwase in Uganda later this week as they seek to come up with a schedule on how they will operationalize the day-to-day activities as communicated by Fina executive director, Brent Nowicki. "I am traveling to Uganda later this week to talk to Mwase and we will have a virtual meeting with Naidoo to chart the way forward and see how we will operate,” he said. Mutuku has asked the swimming fraternity to come up with solutions to the problems that have plagued the sport for the last five years. "The solutions lie within the sport and I believe it is only the swimming fraternity that can unlock the impasse because they know where the problem is," he added. The three-man committee has until the end of the year to prepare for the eagerly awaited Kenya Swimming Federation (KSF) elections. "If we work with speed and cooperation from stakeholders, we can do that work in three to four months and hand the sport back to the stakeholders,” said a confident Mutuku. He said Kenyan swimmers for the Commonwealth will participate in the Birmingham games despite the suspension from Fina. "The games are organised by the Commonwealth Games Association and as Nock, we have been in consultation over the case and we have been given greenlight to send our swimmers,” he said Kenya was suspended indefinitely in April by the world governing body, Fina for failure to conduct elections in the last two years despite passing the constitution last year