Kenya Kwanza presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua has warned Murang’a voters not to support former Prime Minister Raila Odinga as well as independent candidates in the August election. Gachagua said this when he held a rally in the Kangema constituency accompanied by Irungu Kanga’ta(Senator), Mary Waithera (Maragua), Justin Muturi (former speaker), and Alice Wahome (Kandara MP). Others include Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and host of UDA aspirants in the region. Among the centres they visited includes Kamacharia, Karugia, Mugoiri, Kirere, Kagunduini market, Maragua CFF, and Kakuzi. Speaking, Gachagua blamed Raila Odinga for the woes facing Kenyans and the high cost of living. He expressed confidence that DP Ruto will be voted by a majority of Kenyans due to the leadership skills that he has portrayed in past years. He maintained that the Kenya Kwanza Alliance has the most support in the area and urged the electorates not to back Raila for the top seat. "President Uhuru Kenyatta kept away from campaigns so Raila went to pick our sister Karua from Kirinyaga so that he can confuse you to give him votes. Can that get you confused and vote Raila ?" he asked. Gachagua further blamed Uhuru for abandoning more than eight million supporters who voted for him in the 2013 and 2017 elections when he faced fierce opposition and attacks from Raila. He said the Jubilee government failed to actualize its plans in the second term after Raila schemed on Uhuru through a handshake. "They have stolen money from KEMSA and other government institutions to campaign Raila campaign. They recently brought Karua to split Ruto’s vote in Mt Kenya but they won’t succeed as people will vote for us,” Gachagua said. He further rallied his supporters to shun independent candidates whom he termed spoilers. He drummed support for the UDA six-piece. “We as Mt Kenya has said it is six-piece for UDA as Ruto needs supporters in parliament and these independent candidates should not be voted in August,” he said. Gachagua said that most people elected on independent tickets are hopeless and mostly add no value to society. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria further warned electorates of Supporting Raila Odinga through Martha Karua. He said that Karua has been misled to campaign for Odinga whose history is known by everyone. His Kiharu counterpart Ndindi Nyoro expressed confidence that Kenya Kwanza will form the next government if Kenyans support them. Ndindi said that the Mount Kenya region made a decision a long time ago regarding their preferred candidate and they won’t be influenced. Murang’a senator Irungu Kang’ata said that the rejoin still has respect for Uhuru Kenyatta but he (Uhuru) erred in supporting Raila Odinga. Kang’ata said that president Uhuru meant well to the community and the introduction of a handshake was used to mislead him. “Raila must have used witchcraft on Uhuru to confuse him, they brought BBI and it flopped and even in August, they will fail terribly,” Kanga’ta said. Both Raila Odinga and William Ruto have been fighting over the control of the Mount Kenya region. Ruto on his side is banking on Rigathi Gachagua and his grassroots supporters while Odinga is banking on Martha Karua and Uhuru Kenyatta. About two weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta expressed confidence in Martha Karua whom he termed as God sent. Uhuru said that Karua will protect the interests of the people from the Mount Kenya region. On the other hand, the Deputy President has constantly requested Uhuru Kenyatta to stop supporting Raila Odinga and let them face each other on the ballot.