The Judiciary on Thursday held an open day at Milimani courts where court users received advice and views on how to resolve cases efficiently. The launch was presided over by Justice Lydia Achode. She said about 5,000 people seek justice in the courts each day, and the open day was a way to reach out to all of them. The main aim was for court users to meet and brainstorm on how to facilitate and improve the courts’ administration of justice. Court users include magistrates, judges, prosecutors, police, chiefs, lawyers and members of the public. Judge Achode, who was recently promoted to the Court of Appeal, said another reason was to promote accountability and improve the performance of our court. “In the spirit of inclusiveness and shared leadership and in our endeavour to be transparent and accountable to Kenyans, we have organised an open day to enable us to engage in cooperative dialogue with stakeholders through the court user,” she said. The judge also pre-launched the upcoming Service Week for the family division, which will take place from Monday to Friday next week. Justice Achode said the Service Week will cater to family matters that are pending, especially succession cases. She encouraged all Kenyans with pending succession cases to go for the Service Week. “We are cognizant of the fact that a big number of our case backlog is made up of succession cases. Unfortunately, despite succession law defining the proper administration of an estate, many court users are unable to benefit from the seemingly progressive laws,” she said. The judge said some of the challenges in family matters include bureaucratic processes, difficulty in establishing status, legal challenges by other relatives, and lack of awareness of the available legal protections. Matters that will be heard during the Service Week include all files with pending applications for rectification or confirmation of grant and those which are due for confirmation and which do not have applications for confirmation of grant. Achode said all contested matters, which do not have dates, have been identified and screened for suitability for mediation. She said mediators have been mobilised to hear the matters. 