A police officer who shot dead a drunk man who had mistaken his house four years ago has been found culpable for murder by a Thika court. In a ruling delivered on Tuesday, magistrate E Riany ordered the prosecution of Corporal Soo Kipkirui Selote and the investigation of two other officers who were with him that night for trying to cover up the murder. “In the result, there is sufficient evidence pointing to the culpability of Cpl Selote in the death of Kilee. He was deployed to save a situation of alleged robbery but intervened with militarised response,” the court ruled. According to a witness who testified at the inquest, Cornelius Kilee had attended a birthday party. He left at 3am and went to his former house which he had moved out of two months prior. The court was told Kilee accessed the house through the kitchen window because he did not have a key. His mother Margaret Kilee, who also testified, told the court they used to stay as a family in that house for 14 years before she moved into her own house. Margaret said when living in the house, Kilee would go out and when he came home late he would use the kitchen window to access the house. However, on that fateful night, he entered the house through the window not knowing a new family was occupying it. They called the police saying a robber had broken into their house. Three police officers, including Selote, went to the house which led to the death of Kilee. The court also heard that after being shot his body was moved downstairs with his face facing upwards and neighbours recognised him as the son of a former tenant. Witnesses who went to the house after the incident said the sitting room was a mess as if there had been a commotion in the house According to new tenant Ephraim Muhoro, he was in his house sleeping when the lights in his bedroom were switched on and he saw a man with dreadlocks. Muhoro claimed that Kilee was armed with a hammer and he even wanted to rape his wife who was sleeping next to him and their two children. He claimed that the deceased was holding a knife when the police came and it was in that confrontation that he got shot and killed by police. But the court found loopholes in their statement and that of the police that he was shot in self-defence. “Selote testified that he shot Kilee from behind, confirming that he was not facing the shooter. Dr Mathaiya explained that the deceased was at a lower position than the person who shot him due to the trajectory of the bullet path,” the ruling reads. Riany said if that was indeed the case, then it means that the officer shot the deceased from behind while he stood and there was no way he would have attacked the officers with the knife as alleged. “It is questionable how four men could not subdue an intoxicated person,” the court said. The court also found that Selote used excessive force on the deceased despite the National Police Service Act requiring officers to use less force. “The deceased also had injuries that could not be explained and despite the court being told that the sitting was in a mess with the television out of place, no explanation came forth about all these,” the court ruled. 