A sombre mood engulfed Mgeno village of Mwatate in Taita Taveta on Saturday during the burial of seven people who died in a road accident on Friday. The seven victims were part of the 21 people who died at Mwembeni near Taru along Mombasa-Nairobi highway when an 18-seater matatu they were traveling in rammed into an oncoming trailer as the driver was overtaking another vehicle. Six of the other victims were buried in different locations within Voi and Mwatate on Friday. Villagers and relatives could hardly control their tears on Saturday as the bodies were moved for burial from the Moi County Referral Hospital mortuary in Voi. It took the intervention of Kenya Red Cross officials to console and control the overwhelmed crowd to allow the process of collecting their loved ones. The convoy carrying the seven bodies later made its way to Mgeno Primary School where a joint requiem mass was held. A contingent of National Youth Service officers and police had been deployed to the venue to control tens of mourners who attended the interdenominational funeral service. A dark mood engulfed the emotional send-off mass with every speaker eulogising the departed souls as key contributors to development in the area. “It is a heartbreaking moment for us as a community. We cannot describe the loss because they were all breadwinners in their families,” John Mjomba said. Mjomba further said the village is in the process of soliciting funds to settle burial debts after failing to raise the required amount on time. “We had budgeted to spend at least Sh600, 000, but we only raised Sh400, 000. Well-wishers are welcome to help us clear the debt and help families of departed members start life afresh,” he said. The seven victims included six women and one child. They are Rose Mrizi (59), Jardern Mjomba (44), Priscilla Mkawughanga (42), Eunice Maghema (31) and Rose Wali (45). Others were 33-year-old Esther Kambe and her 18-month-old daughter, Shantel Mwagogo. Kambe was described as a loving and a hardworking woman who never quarrelled with anybody in the village. Her sister Rozina Chao tearfully narrated how the two left their home on that fateful Friday on a promise that they would represent the family in the wedding ceremony in Mombasa. “It was my sister-in-law’s wedding and she had to go and represent the rest of us. Shantel was set to be among the flower girls,” she said. Although the rest of the victims were killed on the spot, Kambe survived with serious injuries. She however succumbed while undergoing treatment at Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital a day later. Mwatate subcounty deputy county commissioner Margaret Mwaniki, who attended the funeral service, said the accident would have been avoided had the driver exercised caution. She urged road users to be careful on the road to curb the rising cases of accidents. Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui, Senator Jones Mwaruma, Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime and Woman Representative Lydia Haika also condoled with the relatives. Haika promised that leaders will ensure that children whose parents perished in the accident get education and other basic needs. “This is a burden that we shall carry as leaders. We will ensure we give them scholarships so that they get an education and help their families,” she said. The woman representative called upon all leaders to pull together resources in assisting the bereaved families.  (edited by Amol Awuor)