The ongoing drought in many parts of Kenya will continue with most places receiving inadequate or no rain this month, the Met department has said. July marks the peak of the cold season, but temperatures will remain slightly higher than the average for this month in most parts of the country. “The current shortage of water, food, pasture, and browse for both human and livestock use across the ASAL (arid and semi-arid lands) areas of the northeastern, parts of the northwestern, and parts of the eastern sector is expected to worsen due to the dry conditions predicted for the month,” Met director Dr David Gikungu said. These areas have not had adequate rain since late 2020, a climactic event not seen in at least 40 years, experts say. At least 4.1 million people across the country, up from 3.5 million in May, are now surviving on food donations. The National Drought Management Authority said this number is expected to increase and more camels, cattle, goats and sheep may die if it does not rain. In a monthly forecast for July, Gikungu said only Western Kenya and parts of the Coast are assured of near-average rains this month. This area comprises the counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Others are areas northeastern counties of Turkana, West Pokot, and western Samburu. “The expected total rainfall amount [in these counties] is likely to be near the long-term average for July,” Gikungu said. He said Mt Kenya counties of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi will only experience cloudy skies with occasional rains this month. “A few days are expected to be cold and chilly with daytime (maximum) temperatures falling below 18 degrees Celsius in various parts. Occasional afternoon showers are likely to occur at the beginning of the month,” he said. The largely dry weather is likely to exacerbate hunger and starvation across the country. Last week, the state disbursed Sh1.1 billion to buy food in drought-affected counties. NDMA chief executive officer Hared Adan said the funds would be distributed to vulnerable households in Marsabit, Wajir, Mandera and Turkana counties. In a statement, Adan said funds would be distributed under the Hunger Safety Net Programme. He said Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana and Wajir counties were among the hardest hit by the ongoing drought after four consecutive failed rain seasons. The CEO said the situation has undermined livelihoods and community coping mechanisms. He said the authority has disbursed Sh638.6 million under the drought shock responsive cash transfer portfolio to an additional 58,000 households in the four counties. “Mandera and Marsabit counties, with more than 19,000 and 18,000 beneficiaries, will receive Sh108 million and Sh101 million respectively, while Wajir county with more than 17,000 beneficiaries received Sh95 million," Adan said. "Turkana has the highest number of beneficiaries with more than 35,000. The county has received Sh195 million in HSNP routine cash transfers." Edited by A.N