Africa's fastest man Ferdinand Omanyala has said nobody should be blamed for the delay of his US Visa that saw him arrive at the World Athletics Championship in Oregon somewhat late. Omanyala on Friday said the ongoing blame game should cease even as he defended the government saying they did their best to sort him out. The athlete said the Ministry of Sports through CS Amina Mohammed were instrumental in his Visa being granted once the issue was raised. "Let's stop pointing fingers. The government actually really helped," he tweeted. "It was through Government intervention by the Ministry of Sports and Athletics Kenya that I got my VISA. In fact, the Ministry of Sports through CS Amina were instrumental in my VISA being granted once the issue was raised." The delay was blamed on the unavailability of appointments for a visa interview required before the issuance. Omanyala received the important pass following an uproar from Kenyans on social media who faulted the US Embassy in Nairobi for the delay. He failed to make it to the final of the 100m after finishing fifth in the semifinals. He clocked a sluggish 10.14, missing out on the two automatic qualifying slots for the final. Responding to the delay of Omanyala's visa, Athletics Kenya (AK) exonerated itself from blame. In a press statement, the agency faulted Omanyala for not handing in the necessary documentation for Visa processing. AK said that the preparation for the championship started in early June. A contingent of 80 athletes and officials was selected. "Other athletes were issued with their Visa a day after they went for VISA Biometrics at the embassy of the United States in Nairobi on July 7 while Omanyala's passport was not released. He needed to fill additional forms referred to as supplementary questioning for Visa applicants, to verify some facts," the statement read. AK President Jackson Tuwei said Omanyala's failure to fill out the forms before the deadline led to the delay that saw him arrive in the US hours before his first race. The agency played down claims that it prioritised facilitating government officials' travel to the United States over athletes. "Allegations that persons other than athletes and support personnel illegally travelled to Oregon are false and unsubstantiated. Athletics Kenya hopes that this statement will set the record straight as a true account of the status of the Kenyan delegation in Oregon."