Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has promised Mathare MP aspirant Kevin Kioko an appointment in his government should he win the August polls. Kioko, popularly known as Bahati, was cleared to vie for the seat on the Jubilee ticket, a constituent party of the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party. "Huyu Bahati ni mtoto yangu. Yeye nitampatia kazi katika serikali (Bahati is my child, I will give him work in the government)," Raila said. The ODM leader spoke on Sunday while on the campaign trail in Rwaraka within Mathare constituency. In return, he asked the electorate to vote for incumbent MP Anthony Oluoch of ODM. "Mbunge wa Ruaraka ni bwana TJ Kajwang, halafu mbunge wa Mathare ni bwana Oluoch (Ruaraka MP is TJ Kajwang and Mathare MP is Oluoch)," Raila said. Bahati and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna have previously engaged in a war of words over the singer's candidature in Mathare. This was after Sifuna suggested that the Jubilee party had reached an agreement with ODM to zone the area and front an ODM candidate. Bahati rubbished the claims and said he would never shelve his ambitions. Raila's offer to Bahati on Sunday was the second time Raila was vouching for the election of his allies by asking their competitors to drop their bids in exchange for state appointments should the Azimio team form the next government. Raila is pushing for six piece voting in all areas where ODM has fielded candidates. Earlier on while in Kibra constituency, Raila prevailed upon incumbent MP Imra Okoth to drop his bid to defend the seat as an Independent candidate in exchange for an appointment. He told Imran to shelve his political ambitions and let ODM candidate Orero Mwalimu have a smooth sail to Parliament on August 9. "Imran nitakuwa naye ndani ya serikali, awache Mwalimu aendelee hapa Kibra (I will be with Imran in government, let Mwalimu continue here in Kibra," Raila said. Imran chose to defend his seat on the Independent ticket after losing the nominations to Orero Orero garnered 3,422 votes against Imran's 2,739 votes during the primaries held in April.