Equity Bank Hawks welcome champions Kenya Ports Authority in a top-of-the-bill Kenya Basketball Federation League at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium on Sunday. The two giants have won all their opening three fixtures which makes this top-of-the-bill encounter a mouth-watering affair. However, the bankers will today step onto the court to face off against Zetech University Sparks, who are on top of the 12-team log with eight points from four games. “I have two tough games in one weekend and I will take one game at a time. I only have nine players to choose from and I will do a lot of rotation,” said head coach David Maina. “I have players injured but I will work with the ones available. I will do a lot of rotation since these games are not easy. I don’t understand why I am given two tough games and after that, I will be idle for a month,” he lamented. The tactician will call upon Lynette Atieno, Maryanne Nyagaki, and former KPA shooting guard Linda Alando to help his side bag maximum points and carry the day. The students are coming into this game well aware that it was the Hawks who denied them a slot in last year’s play-off finals following one of the most tightly contested games of the series. Giant killers Africa Nazarene University (ANU) Wolfpacks, who mauled KPA, will welcome Kisumu Lakeside in what on paper looks like a lively encounter. “So far, so good, for my boys. We had set ourselves a target of at least two more wins before the start of the second leg, and I think with our performance so far, we will get there,” said Anu’s coach Mike Oluoch. Hapless University of Nairobi “Terrorists” who have suffered three consecutive losses face off against KPA, who are fresh from a 62-54 victory over Ulinzi Warriors in Mombasa. The following day, Abel Nson's Storms confront the University of Nairobi 'Dynamites' who will be playing their opening match of the season in a match they look poised to win. The men’s games for the day will see UoN Terrorists'square off with Lakeside while KPA winds up their two-game tour of the city with a match against Umoja.