Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate William Ruto sustained his offensive against President Uhuru Kenyatta accusing him of planning to disrupt the August 9 poll. Ruto said he was aware of plans to use the chiefs and their assistants to recruit people in polling stations to cause mayhem on the voting day in a clear scheme to manipulate votes in favour of Raila Odinga. The night meetings, he said, are being held in various parts of the country where up to 30 people are being enlisted and coached to participate in sabotaging the exercise. Noting the strategy was bound to go on the blink, Ruto told the President to instead let Kenyans decide for themselves a leader of their choice rather than using dynamism. “We are asking the public servants not to accept to be used to sabotage and cause conflicts, your job is to serve all Kenyans equally irrespective of their political affiliations,” he said. Ruto said his administration will protect those who will be sacked for failing to accept to be misused by the government. The Deputy President who returned to the Western region on Sunday told the officers to stay put since they will be reinstated to their jobs and promoted once he ascends to power. Ruto spoke in Kakamega after being denied entry to Bhukungu stadium. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali was Saturday roughed up by police at Bukhungu Stadium, where he had gone to organize the rally. On the same day, President Kenyatta continued to strike back asking Ruto to focus on selling his agenda, rather than spreading what he termed as "lies". “Sell your manifestos and leave me alone. I am only doing my work. If you will be elected, that's okay, if not, we will go home together,” Uhuru said. Speaking when he officially opened the Nairobi Expressway on Sunday, Uhuru said he decided to respond to Kenya Kwanza leaders because they have been lying to the masses. He said he has been President for the last five years and he has never harmed anyone despite the numerous attacks they have fired at him. On Friday while in Nandi, Ruto accused Uhuru of issuing threats claiming while at the Statehouse meeting in Nakuru he held a private meeting during which he threatened him and his allies. “Please, you should not be the source of threats in Kenya. Stop threatening Kenyans, your work is making sure all Kenyans are united,” he said. Ruto, who earlier held rallies in Nandi, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia told Uhuru to stop involving himself in politics and allow him to compete with his rival since he is not in the race. “You have oppressed us for the last five years and that is enough, you have used the KRA and DCI to frustrate my friends. We respect you, we are your friends just go home,” he said. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi told the President to desist from launching projects that have not been approved by Parliament as he was giving a burden to the incoming government. Wetang'ula warned him against attempting in any way to interfere with the elections saying he was courting fights in the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris