The Akamba elders have called for peaceful co-existence among Kenyans ahead of the August 9 polls. Through the Ukamba Governing Council, they urged politicians to preach peace among their supporters to ensure peaceful campaigns and elections. The council’s chairman Bonface Kilonzo told the Kamba community to remain united and well organised for other communities to emulate them. The council has a membership of 22 clans across the Ukambani region. “We call on all Kenyans to remain peaceful during this period,” Kilonzo said. They addressed the press at Wavinya Ndeti’s home in Kinanie, Mavoko subcounty on Saturday. The elders endorsed Ndeti for the Machakos governor seat. Kilonzo said Ndeti was the best bet for Machakos saying her appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta to serve as the Transport CAS shows that she's capable. After the endorsement, Ndeti was given a traditional stool which she sat on and a stick held in her hands to symbolise readiness to compete, She was also prayed for, for her to win the seat. The elders condemned Saturday's political unfolding during Azimio leader Raila Odinga's tour of Machakos. CCU leader and Machakos governor candidate Nzioka Waita was at some point forced by Wiper supporters to leave the dais alleging that it was Wiper's event meant for Ndeti to receive clergy’s blessings. The incident disrupted the prayer meeting for about 15 minutes before Raila joined the clergy alongside other leaders restoring calmness with Waita staying put on his seat unmoved. Raila said he wasn’t aware that the event was meant for Ndeti to be prayed for. “The Lord is spiritual and temporal. We are happy to be here. Steve didn’t tell me what exactly the meeting was all about. I was told that we were going to have a meeting with the clergy before we go for the rally,” Raila said. “I didn’t know that it was a prayer session for the Machakos governor candidate. But all the same, it’s a good thing.” Raila said they cannot appear to be partisan. “This is Wavinya's function. We also have Waita vying for the same seat. Ultimately, the Machakos people will decide who their next governor will be,” he said. Ndeti said she was shocked by the incident. “I had a meeting, called over 3,000 pastors to come and pray for me. This isn’t a do or die, there is life after elections,” she said. Waita distanced himself from the blames for the prayers’ disruptions saying he had accompanied Raila from Nairobi to Machakos for the tour. “There was no problem in attending the prayer event. As he ascended the podium, hired goons attempted to prevent us, but he managed to get there and stay on despite further efforts to remove him,” Waita’s campaigns spokesperson Caleb Mwamisi said. “We stand for peace and we deeply respect the clergy.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris