Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Monday took his campaign to Narok promising to establish a leather factory in the region. The former Prime Minister said he will ensure the region–comprising mainly pastoralists-benefits from their livestock. “You are lucky to have livestock, but they are sold at a throwaway price and the farmer gets nothing in return. We want to bring the industry here where we will slaughter the animals and sell the meat in Nairobi and some to external markets,” Raila said. Raila said many unemployed youth will be gainfully engaged in the industries, which will spur the economy of the region. Speaking in Narok West, the ODM boss said he will have a leather factory as part of the one-county-one-industry initiative to ensure the region gets high returns from livestock farming. Raila also promised to improve road networks in the region to open up the area for massive economic takeoff. He reiterated his commitment to roll out free education from nursery school to university as well as implementation of Baba Care within his first 100 days in office. Raila was accompanied by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Senator Ledama ole Kina, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Moitalel ole Kenta (Narok North MP), former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege, Junet Mohamed (Suna East MP) and Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja MP). Kalonzo rallied the Maa community to back the Azimio candidate, saying the region stands to benefit under Azimio government. He said the Masaai community has suffered years of marginalisation and cannot afford to be outside the government. “The winner of the August 9 elections is clear and he will be Raila. We must think deeply as Kenyans and weigh the two sides, especially what they stand for,” Kalonzo said. Raila is facing Deputy President William Ruto, Roots Party's George Wajackoya and Agano's David Waihiga in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The ODM leader is taking a fifth stab at the presidency. Kenta urged the Maa community to support Raila in the State House race. The ODM Narok gubernatorial candidate said the community will benefit a lot in terms of development if Raila ascends to power. Edited by A.N