As the 2022 campaigns near the homestretch, the gloves are literally off. Deputy President William Ruto has yet again launched an onslaught against his boss, Uhuru Kenyatta, following a series of remarks made by the Head of State recently. In a bare-knuckle response to alleged threats by President, the DP has fired back at Uhuru telling him to focus on his retirement. "Nataka nimuombe rais wetu wa Kenya. Tafadhali rais, you should not be the source of threats in Kenya. Wacha Kutisha wakenya. Kazi yako ni kuhakikisha wakenya wote wakae pamoja (I want to ask Mr. President, please, you should not be the source of threats in Kenya. Stop threatening Kenyans, your work is making sure all Kenyans are united)," he said. "Wacha kutuambia tutakujua wewe ni Rais, sisi ndo tulikuchagua na tulikuchagua uwe rais wa kenya. Wacha kututisha, sisi si watu wa kutishwa (Stop saying we will know you are the president, we are the ones who elected you to the presidency. Stop threatening us, We cannot be threatened)." The DP was speaking at a campaign rally in Kapsabet, Nandi County on Friday. He went on to tell the President to pay attention to marketing his candidate Raila Odinga instead of daily attacking and, he said, threatening him. "Namuambia rafiki yangu Uhuru Kenyatta, please, wakati ulikua unahitaji watu wa kusimama na wewe tulisimama na wewe to the last man. Huyo Kitendawili unatusukumia saa hizi ni jamaa amehangaisha Kenya na alikuhangaisha ata wewe (My friend Uhuru Kenyatta, the time you wanted someone to stand by you, we stood by you, to the last man. That Kitendawili man you are forcing on people is a man who troubled  Kenya and also tortured you)," he said. "Nataka nikuambie, wacha kuniletea maneno, wewe sukuma candidate yako bwana kitendawili. Unaniongelea nini? (I want to tell you, stop attacking me. Just campaign for your Kitendawili candidate. Why are you talking about me? )Mr President, stop talking about me, talk about your candidate...Wachana na William Ruto. I supported you when you needed a man to support you." He added: "If you do not want to support me, leave me alone. With a lot of respect Mr President be a decent Human being, Kuwa muungwana, kuwa na shukurani, sisi ndo tulikusaidia, wacha kujifanya. Sasa wewe umeanza kunithreaten ati sijui utanifanya nini.... Mimi na wewe tafadhali tuheshimane." Loosely translates to: "Be a gentleman, say thank you, we were the ones who helped you. Stop pretending. You have started threatening me saying this and that... let us respect each other".