Kenya, like many other countries, has been facing the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The cost of living has gone up and the lowest in the economic chain, such as domestic workers, suffer the most. Many of them earn below the recommended minimum wage. According to the 2022 Domestic Worker Survey conducted by Sweepsouth and released on Sunday, Kenyan domestic workers earn an estimated Sh8,841 a month. The report explores the pay and working conditions of domestic workers in Kenya and South Africa. "All costs apart from school fees have increased from 2021 to 2022 according to our respondents, including the cost of transport,” the report read. More than 100 respondents said food, transport, rent, airtime and data and electricity costs are estimated at Sh11,711 per month. “With an earning of less than Sh10,000, many are not able to meet this cost of living, leading them to compromise on vital items such as food,” they said. “This median earning is a clear indication of Kenyan employers’ resistance to wage laws and the government’s lack of enforcement of its own labour laws,” the report read. On May 1, during Labour Day celebrations, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced an increase in the minimum wage by 12 per cent. Cotu had demanded a 24 per cent increase. The Regulation of Wages Order 0f 2018 says domestic workers in cities should earn a minimum of Sh13,572 per month, those in smaller municipalities or towns a minimum of Sh12,522 and those in other areas a minimum of Sh7,240 The increase would mean that minimum wage would go up to at least Sh15,000 in cities, Sh14,000 in municipalities and Sh9,000 in other areas. Due to the high price of petrol, transport prices have also gone up. “Seventy-three per cent of the domestic workers surveyed said they travelled to work and spent more than an hour commuting in one direction, which meant they had to wake up early and get home late, posing a safety threat,” the report said. Several respondents, the report said, opted to quit their jobs because the cost of travelling from their homes to their employers’ workplace was unrewarding compared to the pay. A majority of domestic workers said they meet the deficit by taking  loans, especially from mobile lenders, plunging them into debt. “Three out of four respondents said they were in debt. Seventy-three per cent of domestic workers surveyed were in debt and had very minimal savings,” the report said. It said one in four respondents had savings and a pension, while the rest did not claim to have insufficient income to save. Very few had private medical cover. Despite there being provisions for a monthly penalty amounting to five times the contribution for an employer’s failure to remit NHIF and NSSF deductions, a majority still do not. "This is very worrisome because Kenya has very limited social security options available, especially those working in the informal sector,” the report said. It further found that Kenyan domestic workers are more at risk of experiencing abuse in the workplace, the most common being verbal abuse. “Sixty-two  per cent are more likely to face verbal abuse and almost four times more likely than their South African counterparts to face sexual abuse,” they said. A majority of domestic workers were reluctant to answer questions about abuse and harassment, the report indicated. Sweepsouth recommends that Kenya work towards enforcing existing legislation on minimum wage requirements and labour protection so domestic workers can be guaranteed decent work. 