Women candidates in Lamu have promised to spearhead sports and talent development to create jobs for the youths. Speaking in Tchundwa village, Lamu East, Safina party gubernatorial candidate Umra Omar said she is already working with private partners to set up a sports academy in Lamu. She revealed the partners approached her after her efforts in aiding Feiswal Mohammed, a footballing prodigy from Pate Island. Mohammed successfully went for trials with the third-tier French side La Berrichonne de Châteauroux. In her manifesto, Omar said a budgetary allocation will be set aside for sports development and nurturing boys and girls. “Lamu has a lot of untapped football, swimming and volleyball talent because the current and past leaderships have not had the will to support youth’s initiatives,” she said. “The current sports policy in the county is nonexistent if any and is based on a system of patronage that is meant to benefit the politicians." Woman Representative Ruweida Obo said the Lamu East CDF has failed to address sports development despite getting an annual fund. “There is nothing in terms of sports development like infrastructure in Lamu East,” she said. She said despite receiving Sh4 million annually through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund, her office has been able to sponsor football tournaments four times a year across the county. Obo, a Jubilee candidate for the Lamu East MP seat said she will set aside at least 10 per cent of the annual CDF allocation for sports development if elected. “Sports development is an area the current leadership has ignored despite towns such as Eldoret growing through sports,” Obo said. Woman rep candidate Nana Mote said she would support sports development initiatives, especially for girls. “It is hard finding a football or swimming team in Lamu despite the immense talent we have,” Mote said. She said she would work with corporates such as Kenya Ports Authority and LAPSSET to improve sporting activities as part of their corporate social responsibility initiative. Mote said Lamu has the capacity to sponsor youths with swimming talent to go for trials on the international stage or participate in global events. Hongwe ward aspirant Jennifer Wairimu said she will also sponsor a bill to set aside funds for sports development. “Rather seeing unemployed youths being dependent on handouts or patronage, sports can be used to harness talents that would otherwise be wasted on drug abuse,” Wairimu said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)