The expanded Mwatate subcounty hospital will serve a wide area and the Voi/Taveta Highway corridor. For decades, the hospital has been struggling to serve the population due to  lack of critical infrastructure. The They praise his track record for infrastructure, title deeds, water tanks, bursaries., as residents called it, had only 28 beds, The expanded hospital has a wing with 160 beds, a maternity wing and a unit for newborns. The hospital has modern equipment and advanced medical services, superintendent Dr Esha Said said. She said the hospital has  a paediatric ward, male and female wards, a gynecological ward, operating theater an ICU. “It is has an expanded and fully equipped laboratory and we can do many more tests now than before," she said. The new wing opened in March and the number of patients has increased steadily. Dr Said said the facility will offer dialysis services to reduce the number of patients being referred to the already overstretched Moi County Referral hospital in Voi. To ensure smooth running of the new dialysis center and ICU, the hospital has put up a water treatment plant and a modern oxygen plant. Implementing the facility, the medical superintendent said, has created space for a ultrasound, orthopaedic, physiotherapy and counselling units. The rooms initially used as wards have been renovated. We have used them to start more than four new units, the superintendent said. The health facility was initially started as a Covid-19 isolation center but later expanded to accommodate a new hospital wing. The revamped hospital is nowa key support facility for dispensaries that used to refer patients to Moi Hospital in Voi. Patient Esther Kidali praised the health department for the expanded facility, saying it has reduced the cost of treatment and travel. In the past, Kidali said, patients had to wait a long time to be attended to. “I delivered my baby here six weeks ago and the services are good. There are also more nurses compared to the past. She had just brought her baby for a check-up. The facility is one of Governor Granton Samboja’s flagship projects. Others are a cancer centre, a sickle cell and haemophilia centre, medical oxygen bulk storage plant and the Australian Aid and the Fred Hollows Foundation funded eye Centre, all at Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi. (Edited by V. Graham)