Two-time world and Olympic 1500m champion Faith Chepngetich has set her sights on breaking the world record in her specialty. Speaking on arrival at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Thursday evening, Chepngetich said the world record is the only accolade missing from her glittering resume. "I want to go for the world record. I have accomplished so much in 1,500m save for the global mark,” observed Chepngetich. Ethiopian star Genzebe Dibaba holds the world record at 3:50.07, set five years ago in France. Meanwhile, Chepngetich has a personal best time of 3:51.07 set at last year's Diamond League meeting in Monaco. Chepngetich, arguably the Greatest Of All Times over the distance, hopes to stay injury free and mentally strong for the word record attempt. “Most important is to stay injury free and be mentally strong to compete to break the World record," she added. She added it's humbling to be part of an exclusive club of athletes who hold both the world and Olympic title after losing the global title to Netherlands Sifan Hasan in Doha in 2019. "That time I had just returned from maternity break. This time round, I wasn't scared of her even if she was to triple like at the Tokyo Olympic Games. I thank God that he answered my prayers,” said Chepng'etich, Chepnggtich's next race will be the Monaco Diamond League meeting on August 10. "It’s a fast track and I hope to run well. I am really looking forward to race in Monaco for the second time,” she added. Song and dance rent the air at the airport where she was received by Athletics Kenya chief administrative officer Susan Kamau, deputy director of sports Jackson Indakwa, friends and family members. Chepngetich said she was delighted with the reception at the airport. "First of all I want to thank you all for turning up late to welcome me. I wasn’t expecting this. I feel humbled and loved,” noted Chepngetich. She urged the country to support and pray for Kenyan athletes still competing in Oregon. "We keep our fingers crossed. Our athletes have gone through tough challenges, especially the lack of physiotherapists. However, they are in high spirits and we hope for the best,” she concluded.