Deputy President William Ruto now claims that Raila Odinga will miss the presidential debate because he has no agenda for the country. Speaking in Kisii on Sunday, Ruto said that the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate has no agenda for the country and has nothing to tell Kenyans. "There is only one plan in Kenya. Our competitors don't have a plan, they don't have an agenda. That is why they cannot articulate any agenda," he said. He noted that Raila has opted out of the presidential debate because Kenyans have demanded to have a leader who has clarity on what he wants to do for the country and its future. "He cannot come for the debate because he has no plan. He doesn't know what to say." Ruto also confirmed that he will attend the debate and to tell Kenyans the plan Kenya Kwanza has for the country. He said this will help Kenyans make an informed decision on August 9. The DP added that Azimio has no plan to fight corruption because they are products of the same. "Their campaign finances are from Covid billionaires and that is why Raila cannot face me because he knows I will ask difficult questions about corruption, state capture and conflict of interest," Ruto added. The Deputy President further claimed of a plot being hatched by Azimio to rig the forthcoming polls. "We have already seen the tokens through the harassments of IEBC officers. We want to tell them we are watching," he said. He told them to go ahead and hand pick the officers they want to execute the polls rather than harassing the commission. “Kenyans will accept nothing less than a free, fair and credible poll," he said. Ruto said President Uhuru Kenyatta owes the country a peaceful atmosphere so that the IEBC can conduct polls free of the rigging drama that has started Ruto was accompanied by party leaders- Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) Mudavadi accused the government of intimidating IEBC to submit to its dirty machinations. "You breach the law by harassing, intimidating and sabotaging plans by the Commission as it prepares for the polls," he stated. Kenya, he said needs peace as it inches closer to the polls. Other leaders present were Senator Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache). Kisii county UDA Governor candidate Ezekiel Machogu, Senatorial candidate Joash Maangi promised Ruto a substantial vote harvest come the General election. On Sunday morning, Azimio spokesman Makau Mutua in a statement said the coalition noted that having the candidates- DP William Ruto and Raila- on the same platform this year would be a bad idea. Mutua claimed Ruto had issued his reservations telling the moderators not to focus on corruption and integrity- issues which Azimio wanted to take centre stage. “Our opponent has no regard for ethics, public morals or shame, that is why he has demanded that the debate not focus on corruption, integrity, ethic and governance- the key existential question that Kenya faces. These issues sit at the core of the Azimio campaign. Any debate devoid of these questions will be an insult to the intelligence of Kenyans,” he said. “That is why we do not intend to share a national podium with a person who lacks decency. As is well known, our opponent traversed the country hurling epithets at us and other key national leaders, including vile, sexists attack.” Mutua said, instead Raila Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua plan to hold a televised town hall to explain to Kenyans the Azimio agenda.