Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua have scheduled a five-day campaign marathon in Mt Kenya and Kakamega County. The series of rallies come just two days after the duo completed a similar campaign trail in the Nyanza region on Sunday. Last week's campaign began on Wednesday in Homa Bay before heading to Kisii, Migori, Nyamira, Siaya and winding off in Homa Bay County. Karua was in Nairobi on Sunday. Communication released Monday by Raila's press secretary Dennis Onsarigo indicates that the Azimio team will begin the Mt Kenya vote hunt on Tuesday in Nyeri county. They will move to Kiambu and Kirinyaga counties on Wednesday and Thursday respectively before shifting camp to Western Kenya on Friday and Saturday for a series of rallies in Kakamega county. With just 35 days to the August 9 general election, Azimio appears to be on a charm offensive to counter UDA presidential candidate William Ruto's influence, particularly in the Mt Kenya region where he enjoys a large following. Most recent opinion polls show that the ODM leader has a head start in all but in Rift Valley and Mt Kenya regions, Ruto has an edge over him. The latest InfoTrak survey suggested that Raila leads in 20 counties from Coast, Northern, Lower Eastern, Western, Nyanza and Nairobi with 9.3 million votes. Ruto on the other hand took lead in 16 counties from Northern, Mt Kenya and his Rift Valley backyard with a combined vote of 8.4 million votes. Overall, the Azimio team polled 42 per cent against the Ruto-Rigathi Gachagua pair with 38 per cent. Even though Raila has narrowed the gap over the past few months, Ruto's continued dominance in Mt Kenya gives him an upper hand in the presidential race. Political analysts aver that Raila's choice of Karua as his running mate has played and continues to play a role in cutting Ruto's influence in central Kenya. The two leading political camps have fired up their campaigns in the contest for more than four million votes of undecided voters in at least 11 swing counties. Analysts say whoever carries the day in swing regions will most likely easily win in State House race.