The core vision that I have come to develop for my life is to keep getting better and better everyday. This is not confined to my financial status or condition of living rather it is a holistic approach to personal development. By getting better, what I mean is to put to death everything of an earthly nature that resides in me and instead clothe myself with compassion, kindness, gentleness, humility, patience and above all...love, which binds these virtues together in perfect unity. This is guided by God's word in Colossians 3:1-14. Yet as I continue to exist on this earth, I have come to realise that this vision is easier said than done, especially when efforts are reliant on our mere human flesh. And now, I come to understand what David means in Psalm 37:4 when he says to "delight in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart." Regardless of the purity of my desires, it is fruitless to imagine that I can meet them away from my Maker. The story of Cornelius in Acts 10:1-47 is an example of the generosity and faithfulness of the Father towards those who put their trust in Him. Cornelius was a Roman and a centurion in the Italian regiment in Caesarea. Despite hailing from a people who did not worship God, Cornelius is described as a God-fearing man who prayed regularly and helped the needy in the local community, regardless of their cultural backgrounds. As a result of this constant communion with God through prayer, Cornelius is taken to a new dimension as far as his spirituality and relationship with the Lord is concerned. He is visited in a vision by an angel of the Lord who informs him that his prayers and help to the poor have been recorded in heaven. As such, the Lord brings Cornelius and his household into contact with Peter and they are baptised with the Holy Spirit. Indeed, Cornelius is an example that the Lord who searches the heart and examines our minds will always answer when we call out to Him. It may seem like he is dithering sometimes but let us not forget that His timing is the best. Like Cornelius, we should always seek the Lord to cement our relationship with Him. This entails reading His word with an intent of knowing Him more, spending time in prayer and fasting as well as fellowship with others. Most importantly, let us always seek to apply that which He has taught and communicated to us. Eventually, our labour in Him will not be in vain, just like it wasn't for Cornelius. Glory and honour be unto His name.