For the last two years, the Law Society of Kenya has been known for wars and squabbles that badly dented its image. But it is now under new management, and a major image reboot is afoot. From change of colour scheming and getting a new chief executive, much has changed in just slightly over the three months the society has been under new management. The new team is led by president Eric Theuri, who is deputised by Faith Odhiambo. They were elected in March this year, alongside 11 other council members. Theuri told the Star in an interview on Monday that he found the society virtually stalled as most of the bills for utilities had allegedly not been paid for two years. Theuri took over from Nelson Havi, who got elected in February 2020. Theuri said part of the rebuilding is netting more partners and donor entities to support it in pursuing its vision. For example, the president said over the years, the secretariat had been ineffective and the tumultuous last two years made it worse. “We had a bit of house cleaning to do because we got in when certain systems were down," Theuri said. "When we sought to get the lines back, we were told they [telecom service providers] had even sold the number to a new user because, as you know, two years is a long time.” He said the society had its emailing system stopped, internet connection discontinued, electricity supply cut numerous times and water services stopped. “It was a bulging debt incurred in the years overseen by the successive administrations. These people would get the services but not pay up and as is expected, the service providers would discontinue their cooperation due to non-payment. So the better part of the time in office has been about paying up the debts.” He said the society had started implementing an ERP system. “So we have had to start all over again given that the technology needs updating and it's very costly.” Besides getting the staff back on footing and making it easier for the secretariat to operate, the Theuri-led council has also recruited a new CEO Florence Muturi to take the place of Wambua, whose tenure ended in February this year. Empowering the secretariat has also included changing the signatories to the lobby’s bank accounts and ensuring that no council member is part of it. “This is to ensure that just in case my council becomes divided and unable to agree on anything, the society does not become held at ransom by one or two council members who are signatories. They can continue to do the work that they must.” The new signatories include the CEO, one of her deputies and the lobby’s chief accountant. Theuri said he has also had to visit numerous partner entities to seek re-establishment of ties. "We only assure them that we know better and that the society is back to transacting business as required by law and basic decorum", Theuri said. And to avoid past pitfalls, Theuri said, he took his team and the secretariat for a retreat once he took office and had a consultant teach them on corporate governance. They also took personality tests “so that we understand each other better and appreciate their differing perspective.” Part of the reforms he said his team envisages include digitising the annual signing of the members’ practising certificate to make it faster and convenient. Theuri also said the forensic audit of the society’s account is ongoing and a report will be tabled during the society’s annual general meeting on July 27. He said they also want the lobby’s regulations reviewed during the meeting to make them modern and responsive to the needs of their members. Edited by A.N