Two charity organisations have partnered to expand donations of sanitary towels to schoolgirls in Western to keep them in school. Kakamega Forest Heritage Foundation and Mama Ibado Charity have partnered to reduce the number of girls who miss classes during their menstrual period due to lack of sanitary towels. Kakamega Forest Heritage Foundation has been donating sanitary towels to girls in Kakamega county alone. It is estimated that more than one million girls in the country stay out of school due to lack of sanitary pads, significantly hurting their overall performance in class work. Lack of pads due to economic hardships has been cited as one of the factors contributing to teenage pregnancies as the girls are forced to look for alternative sources of money to buy pads and some end up being sexually abused. The two partners donated sanitary pads to 361 girls in three high schools in Shinyalu constituency and committed a yearlong sanitary towel and undergarment supply to keep them in schools. “Sanitary pads donation is our flagship programme and we will see how best we can scale it up across the region. The challenge is widespread in Kakamega and even other counties,” Mama Ibado Charity founder Ahmed Jibril said. “Today we are here to support the girl child. Their plight was brought to our attention by Kakamega Forest Heritage Foundation and we said we will be partners to support the initiative,” Jibril said. Jibril is the chairman of Fly 748, a key partner of the initiative through Mama Ibado Charity. Kakamega Forest Heritage Foundation chairman Johnson Murilla said the donation will boost girls performance in education. “Our plea to you is to put your best foot forward. We want you to be perfect. We want you to be the best you can be so that when we leave the stage we have people of substance not only from Lugala but Kakamega and beyond,” Murilla said. Mama Ibado Charity director Sinclair Geraldine challenged school teachers to dispel the myth that monthly period is an illness. “It is a gift that makes us fertile and allows us to get life. I wasn’t aware of the problem that girls face here and it is very disheartening. However, I am so proud to hear that girls have been excelling as a result of this programme because it speaks about its value,” Geraldine said. Edited by A.N