Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali was Saturday roughed up by police at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega county,  where he had gone to organize Deputy President William Ruto's rally. Video seen by the Star showed the MP being manhandled by police who were escorting him to their standby vehicle. In the Video, the MP was seemingly resisting arrest prompting the police to push him forcefully to the extent of assaulting him. Washiali, however, remained defiant and opposed to boarding the police vehicle. He is heard, shouting; "Mnanipiga, mnanipiga... Kwani mimi nimekosa nini?". Loosely translates to: "You have beaten me, You have beaten me.... what offence have I committed?". Video courtesy of Kenya We Want, Facebook page: The MP had gone to Bukhungu stadium to organize DP Ruto's rally when the skirmish ensued. The Star has established that the camp failed to secure a permit to hold a rally at the venue. Malala, now eyeing the governor seat, told the Star that the county resorted to what he termed "a cat and mouse game" when they sought a permit for the venue. Malala said they used to pay Sh100,000 for the venue but they were asked to pay nine times the amount on Saturday. "They told us to first pay Sh900,000 to use the venue. We negotiated with them and after we reached a deal they again told us the banks were now not working and that is how they locked us out," the Senator said in a phone call interview. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, now eyeing the governor seat, said on Saturday they will stage a rally at the entry point of the Stadium following their lockout from the venue. The Senator said they will block the adjacent road to talk to their supporters. His sentiments were shared by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula who said the rally is still on. "Tomorrow the 31st July 2022, Kenya Kwanza will have the mother of all rallies in Bukhungu Stadium Kakamega, the police & county gov behaviour/misbehaviour notwithstanding," he tweeted. The DP is expected in Kakamega to hold his final rally in the region as his campaigns enter the home stretch. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and a host of Kenya Kwanza rallies are expected in the area.