Nairobi-based regional interior design firm– HENSON Interiors is eyeing to increase its market share and product offering after sealing a deal with Egyptian giant-Mobica. Henson Africa provides commercial interior design and furniture supply in East Africa for a number of sectors, including hospitality, office, medical, retail, and education among others. It has entered a supply deal with the 40-year-old Egyptian family-owned private company which is positioned as a top African furniture market leader, with a presence in the Middle East and Europe. It has the largest furniture system manufacturing in the Middle East with 22 factories stretched over 300,000 square metres. The two firms have entered a furniture partnership, which incorporates design, supply, installation, support and maintenance of products in the Kenyan market and the region. “The partnership promises world-class furniture solutions and we couldn’t get a more reliable partner in modern furniture than Mobica, which has a loyal network of clients and has been able to invest heavily in expanding manufacturing capabilities and building its product portfolio, ” said Ruth Kamau, general manager, Henson Africa. According to Kamau, Mobica has gained a lot of trust in the Kenyan market. “The partnership offers us an opportunity to stir our market with new interior design ideas and by extension inspire our local furniture productions,” she said. Henson has been in operation for over five years in East Africa in the areas of commercial business support in sourcing, supply, and maintenance of laundry, commercial kitchens, and furniture. It focuses on turnkey solutions, seeking to fulfill commercial needs in interior design and furniture supply, kitchen design and fitting as well as commercial laundry equipment supply and maintenance. Some of the recent key projects is the designing and equipping of Tamarind Hotel-Langata,in Nairobi. It has also supplied a number of other major businesses, corporates, and embassies. The company is currently engaging five upcoming hotels with design to supply contracts of furniture to be sourced from Mobica furniture. Meanwhile, it is keen to tap on opportunities coming with the African Continental Free Trade Area to expand to other markets. “We are already serving the East Africa region and this will encourage trade between African countries, we look forward to the growth of our business across the whole of Africa,” the firm said.