The race to succeed Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime, who has left to vie for Taita Taveta's gubernatorial seat, is taking shape. Three of the frontrunners in the race; all from Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition party, are locking horns in the heated campaign. They are Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlagui (Wiper), nominated MCA Christopher Mwambingu (ODM), and businessman cum politician Peter Shake of the Jubilee party. The candidates have intensified their campaigns in a scramble for the 44,411 votes. Majala, who fell out with Governor Granton Samboja before moving on to fight for a parliamentary seat, has been courting the mining community in the vote-rich Chawia and Rong’e wards. In a rally at Kamtonga on Wednesday, Majala promised to help the artisanal miners benefit from different types of minerals in the area. “The community must benefit from tons of precious stones in the area. I shall help artisanal miners access a good market for their minerals,” she said, pointing out that residents are still languishing in poverty despite sitting on the multi-billion minerals. She further promised to streamline the issuance of bursaries to bright students from needy backgrounds. “The issue of bursaries and school fees is a bigger problem to both students and parents around Mwatate, and we need to streamline this and find a lasting solution to help our students. They are our future leaders and we need to nurture them,” she said. She expressed confidence in trouncing other candidates in the August polls, noting that she is seeking to contribute to the good governance of Mwatate and Kenya at large. “Women vying for parliamentary elective office are less than 20 per cent and we pray all go through to push us closer to the required one-third,” Majala noted. On the other hand, Mwambingu, a youthful activist and politician is mounting a breathtaking campaign promising to bring fresh leadership. He said he will deal with the perennial human-wildlife conflict that has for years wreaked havoc in the area. “Human-wildlife conflict has contributed in a bigger part to the level of poverty in the area. We shall push the government to fast rack compensation of farmers from the losses incurred,” Mwambingu told Maktau residents on Wednesday. He said the straying of wild animals especially elephants, lions and hyenas from the neighbouring Tsavo National Park had negatively affected agriculture, further faulting the Kenya Wildlife Service for failing to control the frequent invasions. The nominated MCA said humans and wildlife have been tussling for water, especially during the dry season leading to the massive destruction caused by marauding jumbos. He asked the KWS to come up with other water conservation measures in the parks that will ensure a steady supply of water for wildlife. Mwambingu further said he shall push for remittance of royalties to the community from the money collected in the expansive park. Governor Samboja is backing the candidature of Shake, a canon with the Anglican Church of Kenya. Shake, a prominent businessman in the region, is banking on his past support in the education sector to ascend to power. Other candidates in the race are Deputy President William Ruto’s ally Morris Mbondenyi (UDA), Ben Mghana (PEP), Dominic Kitando (TSP) and Gibson Kirubai (Independent).