These results were obtained from a national survey Tifa Research conducted between July 21 and 26, 2022, a full month since our previous survey. In contrast with Tifa’s previous surveys (since the outbreak of Covid-19), this survey was conducted in the field, that is, at the household level. Respondent selection was not limited to those with mobile phones (and who, therefore, had participated in such surveys before, when their phone numbers were voluntarily given to Tifa for the purpose). As was the case then, this survey also focuses on issues related to the forthcoming election. In particular, it aims to shed light on (if not definitely answer) the following questions: Given that the last survey (again) placed Raila Odinga slightly ahead of his chief rival, William Ruto, have their positions changed since then, and if so, by how much? Whatever their current relative positions, the previous survey documented a significant decline in the proportion of those stating that they were ‘undecided’ about the presidential choice. Has this trend continued, and if so, which candidate (s), if any, has/have benefited most from this development? The last survey also registered a significant challenge to the achievement by either of the two main candidates of a first round win, based on the entrance of George Wajackoyah into the race, with a rating of about 4 per cent, which could well force a second round run-off contest if neither Ruto nor Raila has a significant lead over the other. It is thus relevant to ask whether this ‘third horse’ (or at least a quickly-trotting ‘donkey’) could bring this about? Moving away from the presidential race, what is the current distribution of political party and coalition support and, in particular, the electoral importance of other, more localised, parties with regard to ‘down-ballot’ contests? More generally, what do Kenyans feel about the capacity of elections to actually change their lives and, relatedly, how do they perceive the motivations of those who vie for elective office? Further, is it possible to assess the overall level of interest in this election in terms of what voter turnout rates both nationally and in particular parts of the country are likely to be? The comments were dispatched by Tifa