ODM nominee for Kisumu Central constituency Joshua Oron has intensified his campaign to grab the seat as the August 9 elections draw closer. Oron who beat the incumbent MP Fred Ouda to clinch the ticket in April 13 primaries has his eye on the vote-rich informal settlements in the constituency where he has centred his vote-hunt as the campaigns hit the home stretch. His campaign team that has onboard youth and women representatives, professionals, jua kali people, opinion leaders, elders, politicians and the business community has been combing every corner of the cosmopolitan constituency in search of votes. The team has abandoned the political rallies, instead choosing to knock on doors to convince voters to back the ODM candidate for the seat that has traditionally gone to parties affiliated with Raila Odinga. In 2013 Ken Obura won the seat on ODM. He however lost it to Oudia in 2017. Oudia would lose the ODM ticket to Oron in the primaries forcing him to contest as an independent candidate. He is facing a strong ODM wave that's sweeping across Nyanza counties considered an ODM zone. Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga in recent tours of the Nyanza counties such as Nyamira, Kisii, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay was categorical that he wants his supporters to elect ODM candidates in what has been dubbed six-piece. " I want you to support me by turning out in large numbers during the August 9 polls. But I also want you to vote for ODM in all the positions from MCA. I need numbers when I form the government," he said in his tours of the region. Oron who has an interest in the hospitality industry and health sector believes he has what it takes to move the constituency to a higher level in terms of development. " This constituency needs a leader who is in touch with the ground and who understands the needs of the constituents. Most residents of Kisumu Central need clean water, improved sanitation in the estates and employment. They need roads and want cases of insecurity firmly dealt with," he said. Oron said he will ensure education, health and empowerment of the youth and women are prioritised. Kisumu Central constituency has a total of 120,023 registered voters according to data from the IEBC. Railways ward has 22,952 registered voters. Migosi, 16,654 registered voters Shaurimoyo Kaloleni, 16,479 registered voters, Market Milimani has the highest number at 28,992 registered voters while Kondele has 20,252 registered voters. Nyalenda B ward has 14,694 registered voters.