Busia Azimio la Umoja governor contender Paul Otuoma has promised to introduce a raft of measures that will transform Busia’s health sector if elected. The former Funyula MP said on Tuesday his administration will focus on passing legislation to streamline operations in the sector. Among the laws the county assembly will debate and pass will be legislation that recognises community health volunteers as permanent and pensionable county employees, he said. Otuoma said CHVs play a significant role in the development of the health sector and improving their working conditions will be among his top priorities. “We have community health volunteers and these are the most important and significant first line of defence in terms of trying to prevent diseases,” he told journalists. The governor candidate said they will come up with legislation to enable CHVs to be equipped with basic necessities. “I have been engaging with some of them and the problems they face are many because some don’t even have gloves,” he said. Otuoma said CHVs play a vital role in health sector operations because they work mainly in villages preventing diseases. He spoke two years after CHVs in Busia went on strike to push the county government to pay them Sh35 million in arrears. Community health volunteers are entitled to a monthly remuneration of Sh2,000 each. The 157 women and 99 men mainly drawn from Budalang’i claimed that the county government, through the health department had failed to pay them the money they had been promised. “We need to take care of their welfare by introducing regulations so that they can be mainstreamed in the budget. An employee cannot be offering such services to the community when at the same time the community is not recognising or even rewarding that,” he said. Otuoma said under his government, dispensaries and health centres will receive modern equipment to improve services. Besides, he said he will also focus on bringing in strategic partners so “we can mitigate areas where the county government may not be having what it takes to provide services”. “It is only a healthy and happy population that can work and transform Busia for the better,” Otuoma said. The department’s budget for the 2022-23 financial year stands at Sh2.31 billion having risen from the previous year’s 2.29 billion and Sh2.03 billion in 2020-21. Edited by A.N