Mombasa ODM governor candidate Abdulswamad Nassir has pledged to establish the Mombasa Care health programme if elected. The programme is a replica of ODM leader Raila Odinga’s BabaCare promise of Universal Health Care in his presidential manifesto. Nassir said it will provide basic prevention and care services for residents. He said he will establish a health task force, comprising broad-based professional representation. The task force will make recommendations on how they can mainstream the contribution of Community Health Workers and volunteers in providing quality healthcare. “To ensure Universal Health Care for all, I will introduce this programme to ensure that all residents are under the National Hospital Insurance Fund,” Nassir said. He spoke at Timbwani ward in Likoni on Thursday where he had an engagement with CHVs and workers. He was accompanied by ODM Woman Rep candidate ZamZam Mohamed and Likoni MP Mishi Mboko and MCAs from the constituency. Nassir said he will propose a Bill in the County Assembly to implement a compensation mechanism for CHVs to recognise their important role in society. He said his administration will ensure that they are provided with personal protective equipment for safety as they perform their duties. Nassir’s administration will strive to bring CHVs under the cover of Mombasa Care’s NHIF programme by subsidising the monthly premiums. “Our government will pay the monthly contributions for those who cannot afford to do so,” he said. “My administration will endeavour to resource the devolved healthcare infrastructure at the subcounty level so that there is adequate staff, medication, and equipment to serve the needs of the people.” He said his government will acquire a second cancer treatment machine so that cancer patients in the county will no longer have to travel out of Mombasa for treatment. “I will acquire more dialysis machines to make sure that our people are properly covered,” he said. Nassir said his administration will address the overall equipment needs of the county. He committed to harmonising labour relations with healthcare workers to ensure strikes become a thing of the past. Nassir said his administration will resolve issues of recruitment, continuous and progressive training for healthcare workers, and overdue promotions where justified. “Our healthcare workers are the backbone of health systems and we will give them the respect they deserve. There can be no health without healthcare workers,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris