Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o on Thursday faulted Deputy President William Ruto over claims Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga is protecting corrupt governors. On Wednesday at a rally in Sololo town in Marsabit, the DP claimed Azimio had been turned into a "fumigation camp" for corrupt leaders. He told Raila he cannot be dining with corrupt governors and those who embezzled the Covid-19 billions and continue to lecture them on corruption. "Stop the conmanship, you have no business giving us lectures on corruption while you are using corrupt money to campaign. You cannot be dining with the corrupt and giving lectures on corruption," Ruto said. "Stop talking about corruption while you are the one protecting governors who have stolen public money. You protect them so that you can share the money they have stolen." The Deputy President's remarks come in the backdrop of attacks from Raila-led Azimio coalition over what they claim is Ruto's lack of a plan to tackle corruption. The leaders claimed that in his manifesto, the DP had not indicated how he intended to fight graft. Azimio in a statement said the manifesto was punctuated by empty promises, slogans and handshakes and it missed conspicuous issues facing the nation, one of which is corruption. "Kenya Kwanza is the home of the largest collection of questionable political characters this country has ever seen. Under its large tent reside convicts and suspects of economic crimes and corruption against the people of Mt Kenya," the statement read. Raila claimed Ruto has been implicated in many economic crimes and acts of corruption. "It is no wonder Ruto and Kenya Kwanza have no agenda or plan to address corruption, the number one impediment to the development of our country. Nothing will ever go forward in this country without slaying the dragon of corruption." But Nyong'o said Ruto has no moral authority to say Raila is dining with corrupt governors when the whole nation knows that he, Ruto, has accumulated his wealth through "dubious means". "Ruto, the renegade Deputy President who has failed to resign honourably from his office while fighting the same government he serves, has no moral authority to say that about Raila," he said. Nyong'o said he would like the Deputy President to tell them who among them (governors) is corrupt. "I, for one, would like to invite Ruto to the Council of Governors meeting tomorrow at MovenPick Hotel to tell us 'kinaganaga' who among us is corrupt. That is if he is man enough to call a spoon a spoon and not a diminutive spade," he said. Edited by A.N