The Azimio la Umoja Coalition party presidential candidate on Friday reminded Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi how he funded him the first time he was getting into politics. Speaking in Magarini, Kingi’s backyard, Raila narrated how he helped Kingi in his campaign for the Magarini parliamentary seat. “I funded his campaigns when he ran for the Magarini seat. He had no money. He won the seat and I picked him as a Minister for the East African community and later moved him to the Ministry of Fisheries because of the blue economy,” said Raila. The presidential hopeful said he also campaigned for Kingi to win the Kilifi gubernatorial seat but was astonished when he told him that he wanted to form his own party. “I asked him why ODM had suddenly become a bad outfit after sponsoring his political journey for over 15 years. “He formed the Pamoja African Alliance party and came to me asking to join the Azimio coalition. I welcomed him, but after one month the other side seduced him and he said he is leaving,” said Raila. Raila said the PAA party is a trap to impoverish the region and warned the residents against voting for the party. He urged the residents to vote for him and other ODM leaders. “I need you to give me enough soldiers so that I can have a voice. If you will not vote for the ODM leaders then my opponents will have the powers to send me home,” he said Raila warned Magarini residents against buying into the “political conman-ship” displayed by his competitors. He said his competitors are out to loot public resources, including land, which has been a very contentious issue in the coast region. “Some joined politics while they were as slender as a needle but right now they are as fat as a tick. They have stolen from you and they want to continue with that spree,” he added Raila was accompanied by his deputy Martha Karua, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, Kilifi senator Stewart Madzayo, Kilifi ODM governor candidate Gideon Mung’aro, and Mombasa businessperson Suleiman Shahbal. Also in attendance were Magarini ODM MP Candidate Harry Kombe and several MCA candidates allied to the coalition. Karua said the same money that is being splashed to Kenyans by their competitors is the same money, which was meant to fund development projects. “Do not give them another chance to steal your future. Reject them and vote Azimio secure your future. From Marafa, Raila held another rally in Watamu, Mbalamweni in Kaloleni, Rabai and a roadside rally at Mazeras.