Siaya senator James Orengo has said that DP William Ruto will be investigated and held accountable if Azimio takes over the reins of power. Orengo said Ruto is an absentee Deputy President and should be blamed equally for any problems experienced under the Jubilee administration. “It is us who are going to have a commission of inquiry against William Ruto over corruption allegations,” Orengo said. The senate minority leader exuded confidence that Azimio will for the next government stating that Ruto is only influential in 10 out of the 47 counties. Additionally he warned UDA presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua that investigating the Kenyatta family would lead to dire consequences. The outspoken legislator was speaking at Boro in Siaya when he noted that Gachagua had, during the deputy presidential debate, intimated that a Kenya Kwanza administration would form a commission of inquiry against the first family. Orengo said that Gachagua does not have proper understanding of the law and they (Orengo and his legal team) wouldn’t hesitate to teach him a painful lesson. “Gachagua will feel an excruciating pain on his skin and nerves if he will dare touch president Uhuru Kenyatta after exiting office,” Orengo declared. He said that Gachagua has no history in the liberation struggle and, instead, was a KANU operative, a regime that ruled Kenya with dictatorial tendencies. “What was Gachagua and his boss William Ruto doing when others were fighting for rights and freedoms? Gachagua belong to KANU which oppressed this country for a long time,” Orengo said. It was disappointing that Gachagua resorted to attacking Uhuru at the debate despite Uhuru's absence from the ballot, Orengo added. On the other hand, Orengo hailed Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition’s presidential running Martha Karua for enumerating her team’s track record and what Azimio is planning to do if elected. “I was happy about Karua in the debate. She talked about her track record with Raila. Theirs is a service of patriotism and a fight for social justice.” He urged the electorate in Siaya to prepare and vote for him as the next governor because he will help Raila at the top and salvage devolution at the bottom. “Some people are saying that Orengo should remain in Nairobi and help Raila. I am good both at the top and bottom.”