Deputy President Wiliam Ruto has found himself on the receiving end of numerous criticism over claims that he plans to probe President Uhuru Kenyatta once he wins the presidency. The President's allies and that of his Handshake partner Raila Odinga took on the DP dismissing his alleged plan. Led by Azimio spokesperson Junet Mohamed, the leaders turned the heat on Ruto saying he is the one who should be probed. "I am asking you the people of Bondo, between Uhuru and Ruto who should be probed? Even class three school kids know who should be questioned," Junet said. Mombasa Governor on his part poked holes into the UDA party saying the party is made of people with questionable characters. "If you are looking for someone to arrest, begin with yourself. This country has never seen a leader facing more corruption questions than Ruto. The whole of UDA is facing questions on integrity," Joho said. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu trashed the alleged plan saying it won't see the light of the day. "It is shameful that someone is plotting to jail Uhuru if he wins the presidency. My question is, in which Kenya will he be the president?" Nominated MP Maina Kamanda dismissed the reports saying Ruto will after all not be elected adding that his plan will fall flat. Speaking in Tharaka Nithi County on Saturday, Ruto allies however dismissed claims that they want to probe Uhuru. Led by Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki, the team denied claims that they are planning to probe Uhuru once he exits the office. "We have seen some people twisting our pledge to fight corruption. What I want to say here categorically is that we pledged to probe cartels that have been siphoning taxpayers' money. Unless you want to claim Uhuru is one of the cartels." Ruto's presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua also weighed on the reports and said they have no problem with the president. He said they will allow him to retire in peace as they focus on turning around the economy of the country. "Mr President, we have no problem with you. We will let you retire in peace and we won't get you in trouble if we take over the country's leadership," he said.