Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali says he is the right man to steer the county forward. Addressing a political rally in Moyale sub-county on Monday, Mohamud described his opponents as "clueless". He claimed most of them have resorted to throwing insults instead of selling their agenda to the people. "Some of my opponents have no agenda. Some of them have been in government for more than a decade but have little to show," said the governor Governor Mohamud said unlike his opponents who he said have no development agenda, his administration's development record is being felt across the county. "While my opponents have resolved to use their energy spreading propaganda, my government has been working and implementing development projects to uplift the lives of the citizens," he said The governor who is seeking re-election on a UDM ticket called on his opponents to carry out an issue-based campaign instead of insults. Speaking at a rally in Hellu on Sunday, the governor said in his first term, he has completed the construction of Marsabit's modern market, modern laboratory, tarmacking of Hellu-Manyatta road and some of the projects that are beneficial to the residents are ongoing. He mentioned the medical training college, Sololo level four hospital, and fish factory among others as some of his other projects. He called on residents not to gamble with their lives by voting for a leader who has no track record in the August general election. "You have said all the projects we have done in less than five years. I am sure you know the difference between us and others. Walk with us on this path of unity and progress," said Governor Ali The county boss believes that the projects and the program he has initiated have transformed the lives of the people and that will be the basis of his campaign. "I have been able to deliver on many of my promises, I will be campaigning on the strength of my vision," he said The governor says he has steered several development projects that touch the lives of ordinary citizens and that will give him an edge over his opponents. Key among the projects he initiated include the transformation of the health sector where he implemented a number of initiatives which paved way for massive infrastructural and service delivery reforms. The completion of the mother and child complex has reduced the mortality rate while increasing the number of expectant mothers giving birth at the facility. Mohamud called for peaceful campaigns while exuding confidence that he will retain the seat. He asked his community to support and vote for Godana Hargura for the Senate seat and Nasra Ibrahim for the woman representative seat. He hopes the electorate will assess him on the work he has done and give him another chance to lead them promising if re-elected, he will deliver more. Deputy governor Solomon Gubo asked residents to support and vote for Governor Mohamud. He said through him, the county will record development. Community elder Mr Abdishakur Abdi said under governor Mohamud's leadership, the county citizens' aspirations and historic steps are being taken care of in every field including health, education and road construction. Youth leader Abdikadir Boru applauded the governor's commitment to the well-being of the youth and development in the region. He said the youth have never enjoyed the level of inclusivity in government as it is being experienced under his administration.