The DAP-K party leader, who is also the Kanduyi MP, said that Deputy President William Ruto is unfit to lead the country as the head of state. In an interview with press on Thursday at Members Club in Bungoma town, Wamunyinyi said that all the Kenya Kwanza leaders have bad history. He asked residents to think twice before giving them chances to serve in different elective seats. Wamunyinyi argued that Ruto’s running mate Rigathi Gachagua has a bad reputation in Bungoma County as during governor Lusaka’s regime he was given a Ks.350M tender to supply beds at Bungoma County hospital but delivered nothing. “Please don’t make a mistake of electing a person like Rigathi into a public office because he has a bad history of squandering public money, he has a case here in Bungoma where he needs to answer the whereabouts of the 350M,” he said. Wamunyinyi slammed DP Ruto for publicly assaulting defense CS Eugene Wamalwa during his votes haunt tour in the Western region saying that Ruto is too bitter. If he gains the State House powers he could use them to intimidate communities living in different parts of the country. Ford Kenya party boss Moses Wetang’ula and his counterpart Musalia Mudavadi were not left behind as Wamunyinyi termed them selfish. He asked them to stop protecting and cheering the DP as he makes attacks on Luhya leaders. “Ruto should have respect for our leaders, Eugene Wamalwa is our eye at the high table in the State House, therefore if we allow people to intimidate him the region risks losing great deals with the government,” Wamunyinyi said. On her part, Former Bungoma County woman MP DAP-K aspirant Dr. Regnaldah Wanyonyi said that Ruto referring to CS Wamalwa as a woman was very demeaning and he should apologise. “As Luhya women we are unhappy with how Ruto is treating our people. Sincerely speaking Ruto cannot mistreat our people then expect us to vote for him it is really bad,” she said. However, Wamunyinyi said that Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, among other leaders in the Kenya Kwanza coalition, have integrity issues and should not be given positions to serve in public office. She said that Raila Odinga and Martha Karua are the leaders whose track record is publicly known and shown through Kenyan history. Meaning that they should be given a chance to serve as the head of states. “Both Raila and Karua have no bad history in public offices, so let's rally behind them to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta,” she said.