Twenty-three assorted firearms and 59 bullets have been recovered in the ongoing security operation in parts of West Pokot county. Police said they hope to recover more of the weapons held illegally by civilians to ensure safety for all in the region. Two more AK-47 rifles were surrendered to security agencies in Sekerot location and Sukuk sublocation at the weekend. Police spokesman Bruno Shioso said this followed a sensitisation drive targeting residents. “We continue to encourage those in possession of illegal firearms to take advantage of the immunity extended by the government and surrender their weapons to our security agencies and the National Government Administration Officers,” he said. He said the recoveries are part of an ongoing disarmament drive in the region. It is being conducted by multi-agency teams in volatile areas of Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot counties. The government announced an extended month-long curfew and operation on June 8 to trace guns behind the attacks by bandits and criminal gangs. The curfew effectively locked up five of the 20 wards in Elgeyo Marakwet as the government renewed efforts to tackle banditry in the Kerio Valley. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i commissioned the operation to restore security following persistent attacks that left dozens dead and thousands displaced. Matiang’i blamed the violence on political incitement and expressed frustration at the lack of goodwill and cooperation from area leaders. He compared the insecurity in Kerio Valley to the situation in Marsabit county, where an ongoing security operation has restored peace. The decision to change tack and go beyond traditional law enforcement is informed by the recommendations of a special team. The new approach links national and local level security operations. It provides urgent interventions to address the wider political, economic and social drivers of violence. As in the case of unrest in Laikipia county, the operation has law enforcement, health, housing, employment and other components.