Kenyans mourned Nairobi Half Life actor Maina Wilfred Olwenya who died on Monday, July 4. Olwenya, who played Oti in the 2012 film, was pronounced dead after collapsing at a Nairobi hospital. The cause of his death remains unknown with the family expected to give detailed information on what transpired. Investigations into the circumstances surrounding his death are ongoing. The family has called for calm and privacy at this time and will consequently relay more information when they are ready. Olwenya also worked as a voice-over artist in various adverts. Some of the radio stations he did voice-overs for include Radio Jambo. Maina Kageni of Classic FM publicly mourned the late actor on Twitter. "We'll miss you here at Radio Africa... among the very best voices in East Africa... great actor, superb talent!!! Recalling your outstanding role in the movie Nairobi Half-life... what a game-changer you were, big boss!!! Thanks for everything," he tweeted. The Radio Africa Group also remembers the late actor for his great contribution. For about five years, Olwenya worked in the production department serving as a sound artist for Radio Jambo station. The deceased was nicknamed 'Aturkan' while working on the radio, a former co-worker said. "He could not pronounce the name Turkana correctly, repeatedly saying Aturkan meaning A Turkana. This led to 'Aturkan' becoming his studio name." The production department at Radio Africa described the deceased as a good-natured and happy man. "He had a good voice. His voice was everything. To be honest, he had a good soul, "the production team said. The late Olwenya was involved in the production of adverts and commercial soundtracks for Radio Jambo until last year. Other Radio Africa staff including broadcasters Mbusii and Maina Kageni have joined in mourning the actor. Kenyans also took to Twitter to mourn the celebrated Olwenya. "Olwenya Maina has passed on! Damn! He was super talented. His role as 'Oti' in Nairobi Half Life was well executed. I loved all the roles he played. It's just heartbreaking. May his Soul Rest in eternal Peace. We have lost real talent," Bravin Yuri tweeted. "Rest In Peace OLWENYA MAINA aka "Oti". Kenya has lost a worrier in the film industry. His famous movie "NAIROBI HALF LIFE" was massive, it helped shape and changed perceptions of many youth regarding crime and terror & realise how crime destroys lives," Mohamed Juma said.