Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji has urged school administrators to be patient with parents on fees as schools are set to open after a week-long holiday. Githinji said the current high cost of living has become a burden for parents to bear so schools should be accommodative to them. Gichimu spoke on Thursday during the disbursement of Sh40 million bursary cheque to 14,000 university, college and secondary school students in Gichugu. In addition, he said the period the schools closed was too short for parents to raise sufficient money. He wants schools to keep all students with fees arrears for at least two months as the parents seek funds to clear the fees. He said the funds will help sustain the beneficiaries in their respective institutions as it complements the little amount parents have raised. The cheques were received by different school representatives while those yet to be picked will be dropped to the various institutions. “We understand the government has been trying to resume the normal school calendar so I, therefore appeal to school heads to be patient with parents who are working very hard to put their children through school,” he said. He underscored the importance of reinforcing the kitty to continue achieving its intended purpose of helping needy learners. In addition, he said if re-elected he would continue agitating for equal distribution of the funds. “We want equal distribution of resources across the country so that students in populated regions can also benefit,” he said. Jamleck Njiru, one of the parents lauded the bursary committee for undertaking the process with accountability. He said the financial aid will help his two sons, who will be resuming school next week. “We have been undergoing a very tough financial period which has made it difficult to raise school fees. The bursary has lifted a huge weight off our shoulders and our children will be able to open school with minimal challenges," he said. Njoroge Mwangi, another parent said the new school calendar has deeply hurt their pockets. “We yearn to resume the old school calendar so that everything returns to normal. The new one has drained our pockets because we are struggling to raise fees,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)