Nairobi governor candidate Polycarp Igathe has pledged to provide free lunch in informal settlement schools if elected on August 9. He said the initiative seeks to achieve “zero hunger” in informal settlements – which constitute 60 per cent of Nairobi’s population – with children receiving food rations every Friday to take home. “The challenge in Nairobi is stunted growth because many children in informal settlements do not get a balanced diet. Going forward, it will not only be education, our children will also get food while in school and some to take home,” Igathe explained. “I would like to promise that the Nairobi County government will be providing food to all learners in informal settlements if I become governor,” he added. The proposed programme, known as Linda Jamii, will see households receive food packages weekly. The food will include carbohydrates, protein and vitamin components to ensure a balanced diet. “The [scheme] will be known as Azimio Linda Jamii because the heart of jamii is the family. The family is the foundation of society,” Igathe stated. The Gubernatorial hopeful explained that many children in Nairobi’s slums fail to go to school due to hunger as their parents live on less than a dollar a day. According to the former Nairobi Deputy Governor the programme would serve all learners at Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) centres, primary and secondary schools. Igathe also promised to ensure that all children who score at least 380 marks in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam automatically qualify for a bursary from his administration. With a people-centred manifesto, Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Nairobi gubernatorial candidate Polycarp Igathe has reiterated his commitment to enhancing service delivery if elected on August 9. Committed to delivering zero hunger, decent jobs, and well-being for Nairobi residents as the priority, his performance agreement focuses on three areas; Society, the Economy, and Environment. The former Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) at Equity Bank urged the public to exercise their political right by voting as that is the only way of implementing the change they want. “You have refused to take responsibility to vote but you keep accusing others, saying it is that fellow. Chapter One of the constitution says the sovereign power of the Republic of Kenya belongs to the people,” Igathe said.