Perhaps — just perhaps — Kenya would have won a gold medal in the men's marathon race at Oregon22 in Eugene on Sunday had Lawrence Cherono made an appearance. Unfortunately, as fate would have it, Cherono stumbled out on the very eve of the event after violating an anti-doping rule. His absence left the field open and Ethiopia’s Tamirat Tola wheezed to an easy victory for the coveted gold in an impressive 2:05.36. Cherono's compatriots fared badly in the race with two-time New York Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor fizzling out into a disappointing fifth. All hell broke loose after investigations conducted by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) unearthed the presence of Trimetazidine in Cherono's sample. The World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) studied the sample in its Lausanne-based laboratory after receiving it on May 27 before returning the findings to AIU on July 13. Trimetazidine helps to metabolize fatty acids in the body. It also allows for more blood flow to the heart and limits quick changes in blood pressure. This can help lessen chest pain from blocked blood vessels. The ban shattered all his hopes and dreams and trashed all the effort he had channelled into preparation. Cherono became the latest Kenyan athlete to be sanctioned in recent years, joining the ballooning star-studded list. In February 2021, Kenyan distance runner James Kibet was handed a four-year ban for anti-doping violations. The ban came after his urine sample collected at the Corsa dei Santi event in November 2019 tested positive for nandrolone and anabolic steroids. In his defence, Kibet said the substance could have entered his body through contaminated pork meat. The AIU argued the athlete must ensure no prohibited substance enters the body. In April 2019, 2008 Olympic 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop also suffered a four-year ban after he tested positive for EPO in an out-of-competition test in Kenya in November 2017. And although he appealed, the AIU panel dismissed any suggestion that the positive test came as a result of natural EPO from training at high altitude, medication, irregular sample collection, sample spiking or substitution. Both Kiprop's A and B samples contained EPO. A month earlier, Olympic marathon champion Jemima Sumgong had her doping ban doubled to eight years after an IAAF disciplinary tribunal ruled she had fabricated medical records. Sumgong had initially been slapped with a four-year ban in 2017 for testing positive for the blood-boosting drug EPO. She denied any wrongdoing, claiming she might have been set up during a doctors' strike at a hospital in Nairobi. Sumgong claimed she visited the hospital for treatment for a ruptured ectopic pregnancy. However, a joint investigation between Anti-Doping Kenya and the Athletics Integrity Unit failed to any record of her hospital visit. Medical experts also pointed out that EPO was a very unlikely treatment for her claimed condition and she would have been hospitalised for at least four days. Earlier in 2018, marathon runner Rita Jeptoo was banned for four years after testing positive for recombinant EPO (rEPO). Her sample was given before winning the 2014 Chicago marathon. She was disqualified from that race and given a two-year ban by Athletics Kenya for the offence, but the IAAF appealed to Cas for a sterner penalty. Hopefully, a concerted effort by the relevant authorities will put an end to the vice once and for all given it is already spilling out of control.