Garissa Woman Representative Anab Gure and Nominated Senator Falhada Iman have stepped up their efforts to consolidate votes for UDA presidential candidate William Ruto and Kenya Kwanza. On Friday and Saturday, Gure and Iman culminated their week-long tour of the Fafi subcounty by holding a rally in Bura East to popularise Ruto's bid. During the tours, they held discussions on the signed Kenya Kwanza women charter and engaged the residents on the manifesto, breaking down key components. Falhada said Ruto had women's interests at heart and they had every reason to vote for him. “We are here to break down our manifesto with a focus on women issues under Ruto's presidency,” she said. Falhada was nominated on a Jubilee ticket but has since shifted to UDA. She said they will use the remaining days to drum up support for Ruto. The nominated senator said the region would benefit under Ruto's presidency because he understood the challenges they faced. “Citizens are yearning for a change from poor leadership and governance to a better future,” she said. “Our presidential candidate will accelerate the issuance of national IDs and end historical injustices. These are not mere pledges we entered into a political agreement to ensure the pledges are fulfilled.” The nominated senator said Ruto promised financial and capacity-building support for women through the hustler fund, for women-led cooperative societies, and table banking among others. She said he will also establish a social welfare fund for Kenyan women working abroad as a safety net. “The participation of women in the key economic sectors is minimal and a majority of women remain in low-income jobs and endure poor working conditions but our manifesto will place them at the centre of every decision-making process and prioritise them,” Falhada said. The Deputy President promised to enter into a political agreement with North Eastern residents to ensure all his pledges are fulfilled. Gure said that Ruto's pledge to introduce a women's rights agency to protect women from Gender-Based Violence was a big plus for women in the region who have been victims of the vices. She said women from the region who are most marginalised will get the opportunity to access the Sh50 billion that will be established to enable women to get credit to support their businesses. During the alliance manifesto launch on June 30, Ruto made seven pledges to Kenyan women if elected president. Ruto promised to distribute free sanitary towels, fully implement the two-thirds gender rule, allocate half of his cabinet to women and promote access to better healthcare for all women. The DP who earlier this month toured the Northern region to popularise his bid said if elected, he would tackle insecurity, improve education standards by employing more primary and secondary teachers, improve the livestock sector and infrastructure.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris