Tomato farmers in Kobura ward, Nyando subcounty are expecting to reap big after the completion of a tomato processing plant. The Kochieng’ Tomato Processing Plant in Nyamware village undertaken by the Kisumu county has been completed and fully equipped. The plant is now awaiting commissioning by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o in the coming weeks. Chief officer for Industrialisation and Energy, Mr Joseph Oganga, confirmed that the department spent Sh20million on the flagship project in the financial year 2021-22. Oganga said Nyong’o’s manifesto is focused on promoting industrialisation in the lakeside county in line with the Big Four Agenda on food security and manufacturing. “We are committed to promoting local value addition, establishing cottage industries to establish business hubs in villages outside the city,” Mr Oganga said. Oganga said the agro-industry project is the first of its kind to be funded by the county to promote sustainable agriculture. Agriculture and Fisheries,  chief officer Dr Paul Omanga said tomato production in the rice schemes during the off-peak season is significant to sustain the factory production. Tomato is among the high-value crops planted post rice harvest in the vast Ahero, West Kano and South West Kano irrigation schemes on 200 acres and more than 11,000 farmers. Other horticultural crops planted in the region include African vegetables, hot pepper and watermelon. However, Omanga said at the onset, the plant would focus on tomatoes and later expand to process more agricultural value-added products. “The same equipment can be used to process mangoes, avocadoes, pineapples and other fruits which will be transported from far-off areas for processing,”Omanga said. The achievement marks a significant stride for small-scale tomato farmers, by reducing post-harvest losses, increasing profit margins and creating job opportunities. “Upon its operationalisation, the facility will equip farmers with best farming practices, quality seeds and tools, capacity building, access to financing and sourcing of markets for processed products,” Omanga said. The project will be managed by the Kochieng’ Multipurpose Cooperative Society. The plant has a modern ablution block with a biodigester and a 15-metre high mast solar-powered floodlight and drilled borehole to supply water to residents for domestic use. The plant also plans to produce tomato juice, tomato paste and other products that will be branded and supplied to local supermarkets. In addition, the plant will also commercialise the water project by procuring and installing a water purifying and bottling plant to produce branded mineral water for sale. “The water purifying plant will be managed by a youth cooperative society to provide employment and boost household income,”  Oganga said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)