Former Murang’a senatorial candidate Peter Kagwanja has launched a 10-day last mile popularisation campaign to lobby support for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kagwanja dropped his bid after the Jubilee ticket was awarded to his rival Kembi Gitura. He said he will use his campaigners to rally residents behind Raila's bid. Kagwanja said his campaigners were so effective and they will do the same for Raila. His aim, he said, is to ensure more than 70 per cent of Murang’a people vote for Raila by delivering at least 450,000 votes. Murang’a has 621,161 registered voters spread across 1,131 polling centres. It is estimated that Raila enjoys between 30 and 40 per cent of Mt Kenya’s support while a majority backs UDA presidential candidate William Ruto. Kagwanja says his mission aims at diluting Ruto’s support in the county. While launching the campaign on Tuesday at Kenol in Maragua constituency, Kagwanja said Raila is set to win and Murang’a should not be left out. “Whether we like it or not, it is clear that Raila will win the elections and the question is, where will Murang’a and the Mt Kenya region be?” he asked. He said he will ensure Murang’a is at the heart of Raila’s win to secure her position in the Azimio administration and remain relevant in national politics. “We need to come out and overwhelmingly vote for Raila. His son has married our daughter and that makes him our inlaw. If we vote for him overwhelmingly, he will remember how his in-laws contributed to his victory,” Kagwanja said. He also reminded the residents that Raila’s running mate Martha Karua is from the region. “When she gets there, she should be able to say that Murang’a voted her in with 70 per cent. We need to protect and strengthen her with our vote,” he said. His team hit the ground on Tuesday and has committed to ensuring they campaign for Raila. Kagwanja’s supporters said Murang’a was involved in the first and second liberation and should be at the centre of the third liberation. Another supporter Margaret Wanjiku Mwangi said Raila has pledged to strengthen the economy which will benefit residents and lauded him for picking a woman as his running mate. Wanjiku, who will coordinate the campaigns in Gaturi ward, Kiharu constituency, said Raila gave most women a reason to vote for him. “ I will lead campaigns in my village and ensure the majority vote for him. We want Murang’a to be in the next government and not in opposition,” she said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)