Caffeine is naturally derived from fruit, leaves and coffee beans and can be added to beverages to make a drink. Coffee is usually a good go to drink in the morning especially on those chilly days to keep you warm. Most people usually start their day with a cup of juice, coffee or tea. When it comes to deciding if coffee is good or bad for health, it is agreeable that having too much of it can have a negative effect on the body. Here are key symptoms of too much caffeine in the body. Dizziness Caffeine, whose deprivation usually causes headaches, can also result in dizziness if taken in excess. The caffeine effect which constricts blood flow in vessels to the head is also responsible for restricting the blood flow. Experts say that too much of  it can actually make you feel lightheaded and woozy. Anxiety Feeling  jittery, nervous and anxious are considered to be side effects of the caffeine in coffee that triggers the release of adrenaline. Here, the body system goes into the state of ‘fight or flight’, leaving us at a level of anxiety which increases with the amount of coffee consumed. Insomnia One can have dry eyes and find it difficult sleeping sometimes. Drinking too much coffee may lead to a person not being able to go to sleep when they actually want to. The study  found that 33 per cent of people admit that caffeine makes it hard for them to fall asleep. Muscle tremor Twitching eyes and trembling hands caused by caffeine in the coffee acting as a stimulant which can cause the twitching of muscles. High blood pressure Taking too much caffeine can put one at risk of cardiovascular conditions if the already have high blood pressure because of the caffeine stimulant. Blurred vision The excess caffeine can increasing  blood sugar levels in the body resulting to blurry vision and tingling in eyes . Confusion Anger, irritability and confusion are signs that a persons mood is being affected by caffeine consumption or its withdrawal. Experts say that increased adrenaline also can cause hallucinations or brain fog and its recommendable to quite the caffeine.