Migori police have launched a manhunt for two suspects believed to be behind teargas lobbying in political rallies. In the latest incident on Saturday, the two suspects lobbed teargas at Kababu centre in Suna West when Senator Ochillo Ayacko was being coronated and endorsed for his governor bid. The coronation was organised by the Suba Council of Elders and invited elders from Luo, Luhya, Kisii and Kuria communities to oversee the coronation. This was deemed as a major boost to Ayacko’s bid from the influential council in Suna East and Suna West. “We have launched a manhunt for the main suspect who has been identified,” Suna West police boss Elizabeth Wakuloba said. She said after lobbing the teargas during the tail end of the function, he jumped on a waiting unregistered motorbike and escaped from the scene. “We have crucial leads on his whereabouts and we will seek to know how he got hold of a teargas canister and those working with him,” Wakuloba said. The Saturday incident came only a day after the county security committee led by county commissioner Meru Mwangi and county police commander Mark Wanjala met with nine governor candidates. The meeting was meant to discuss the need for peaceful campaigns. “The teargas attack was planned by a fellow candidate from Suna West, he called one of the organisers and vowed to disrupt the coronation. We have also identified the man who lobbed the teargas,” Ayacko said. The only governor candidate from Suna West is an independent candidate and businessman Philip Mwabe who refuted the claims. “I have also heard that story in the press. I believe it is political time and any allegation goes for mileage,” Mwabe said in a text message when asked for comment. Ayacko said after being placed as a front runner and the candidate likely to replace governor Okoth Obado, there have been plans to ensure the campaigns take a violent path. He said the coronation was a big plus to forming an inclusive administration. This is the fourth political function to have teargas lobbed in recent months, piling pressure on police to arrest the suspects. On December 18 chaos erupted as Ayacko rose to address a gathering at a home in Ragana ward and an unidentified man hurled a teargas canister at the crowd. On September 17, a similar incident happened when a teargas canister was lobbed at ODM delegates in Maranatha Hall which disrupted the then ODM politician Jimmy Wanjigi’s presidential bid. Both incidents happened within a kilometre radius.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris