The fight against criminal gangs in Nakuru is not targeting members of any tribe, Rift Valley regional commissioner Mohammed Maalim has said. He warned against ethnicising the operation against the gangs, saying it is a security matter. Some human rights groups have called for the suspension of newly appointed Nakuru county commander Peter Mwanzo, accusing him of orchestrating extra-judicial killings. The accusations followed the gunning down of four suspected members of Nyuki Group, an affiliate of Confirm Gang in the Barut area of Nakuru West constituency. The groups have been blamed for the murders of at least seven women in the area over the last two months. Mwanzo was deployed to Nakuru just last month to lead the operation against the gangs. Six youths are being held by police over the killings. There have been claims the police are targeting members of a particular community. "When there is an issue of fighting insecurity and organised criminal gangs, let it not take ethnicity's direction. A criminal does not have a tribe. Anyone who is caught by our security agencies or we get information of their criminal activities by the community, will be dealt with as criminals and will face the full force of the law," Maalim said. He spoke in Njoro on Friday. This comes as two brothers who were among four suspects shot dead by police in Barut Nakuru, last week were on Thursday buried at their home. Dennis Kipchirchir, 23, and Kevin Kipyegon, 20, were shot dead by police on suspicion that they were members of a criminal gang. The family and neighbours have, however, asked the authorities to help them seek justice insisting that they were innocent and police ought to have arrested them and taken them to court. Nakuru county commander Peter Mwanzo said that the four were shot when they attacked police officers at night days after two people were beheaded in the area. These claims have however been refuted by the family members who say that the police picked them up in the house, handcuffed them and took them to one house where they were shot at close range.