Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos says he has served with humility for two terms and leaves a strong legacy of development and unity. Tolgos said under his administration the county’s economy had been rated to have grown at the fastest rate than other county. Residents enjoy better access to healthcare, education, infrastructure, water and a vibrant agriculture sector, he said.. He said  the people of Elgeyo Marakwet were more united than before. Tolgos was speaking at a series of meetings in Keiyo South where he had stop overs at Setano, Enego, Kocholwo, Molol, Koimur, Katumoi , Kapkayo, Chepsirei and Kimwarer. "Throughout my leadership, with meagre resources, I have been able to treat every part of the county equally and equitably. I have united our people and am leaving behind a solid legacy," Tolgos said. The governor is now vying for the senate seat through the Jubilee party. He is facing off with Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of UDA running for his third term in the August 9 polls. "I come to you in humility to seek your mandate and I promise to serve you as senator with a difference, better than the current holder of the office," Tolgos said. The outgoing county boss sought to sell his political agenda saying he had the best qualities to serve the county in the senate. He said he had over the years struggled to lobby for increased government resources and opportunities to the community to further improve the road networks, create employment opportunities and other services. Tolgos is engaging in a tight battle with Murkomem for the seat and analysts say he has pushed the race to Murkomen’s doorstep, giving the senator a run for his money. The governor accused Murkomen of doing nothing about stalled projects in the region including the Arror aad Kimwarer dams among others. Governor Tolgos said his challenger had failed in executing duties of a senator in representation, oversight and legislation as outlined in Article 96 of the Constitution. Tolgos said despite the community availing over 3,000 acres of land in Kerio Valley towards establishment of a university in the county, Murkomen did not support the initiative. He said he had been mistreated by DP William Ruto’s camp forcing him to stick with President Kenyatta and Azimio leader Raila Odinga. “I had to seek an alternative avenue to help the people of Elgeyo Marakwet by remaining steadfast with President Uhuru Kenyatta and through Azimio la Umoja, One Kenya Alliance," Tolgos said. (Edited by V. Graham)