Youth, women and people living with disabilities have been urged to embrace coffee farming for sustainability and continuity of the sector. Kenya Coffee Producers Association chairman Peter Gikonyo said involvement of the excluded groups is vital to the growth and success of the industry. “Women need to stand in their rightful positions since coffee farming is a business like any other. Everyone should be involved in coffee farming, to benefit from the returns. It doesn’t matter who you are,” he said. Gikonyo spoke during a farmer’s training exercise in Machakos on Thursday. He said the training aimed to address why the three groups haven’t been well incorporated in the coffee sector. “There seems to be a vacuum somewhere since the average age of coffee farmers is 60. Coffee farming has been left to men. Youth, women and people living with disabilities should be encouraged to participate,” Gikonyo said. He said youths are lazy and impatient and choose not to be actively involved in coffee farming, since the crop takes time to get ready for harvesting. The chairman said those living with disabilities should be incorporated in the sector depending on the nature of their disabilities. “As an organisation, we are looking for ways on how the disabled can benefit. We will soon create a fund for coffee farmers living with disabilities," he said. Machakos Optic Services Youth Cooperative chairman Dennis Mutua said they are working with various groups to have as many youth as possible involved in coffee farming. He urged parents to discourage children from moving to towns and cities to seek job opportunities and instead engage in coffee farming, since it pays well and has good returns. Mutua said parents should train their children on coffee farming and provide them with necessary support to make them successful in the sector. He also said the government should support farmers through capacity building and invest on value addition. Mutua said the government should help farmers by marketing their coffee for them to make more profits, as the sector was flooded with brokers. National Coffee Cooperatives Union CEO Nicholas Mwangi said there is need to invest on empowering the youth to get involved in coffee farming. He said if coffee farming is to continue in the next 10 to 15 years, women should be involved not only in production but also deliberation and leadership in the coffee sector. Mwangi said NACCU will organise such interactive training sessions to push the agenda and innovative ideas to uplift coffee farmers. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)