Turkana leaders have condemned the violence witnessed during Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga's rally in Lodwar on Wednesday. Led by Governor Josphat Nanok and Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor, the leaders called for peace, tolerance and respect. Chaos erupted after ODM and Jubilee supporters clashed in Lodwar town. Trouble started when Suna East MP Junet Mohamed called former Petroleum CS John Munyes to speak ahead of MP Jeremiah Lomurkai in Morelum, Turkana East. Munyes and Lomurkai are eyeing the governor's seat to succeed Nanok on Jubilee and ODM parties respectively. The Jubilee supporters termed the decision a way of sabotaging Munyes in Azimio. A group of charged crowds donned in Jubilee T-shirts stormed the rally in Moi Gardens and started chanting “No Munyes, No Raila”. They started throwing stones at the podium where Raila and other leaders were addressing supporters. Former UNCTAD secretary general Mukhisa Kituyi was forced to cut short his speech. The security team restored calm and Raila addressed supporters. Governor Nanok termed the violence a 'pain'. "I condemn with no uncertain terms the current violence, tensions and pains that Azimio presidential candidate and partners rivalry are causing Lodwar residents," he said on his Twitter account. Nanok said businesses in entire Lodwar town were closed in the afternoon. The governor said in the last 10 years, Lodwar has been peaceful. Emanikor, who is eyeing the Turkana Central MP seat on Jubilee ticket, said she had conducted peaceful events in preparation to receive Raila. “As an Azimio parliamentary candidate for Turkana Central, I condemn in the strongest terms possible the violence that took place in Turkana during Baba's visit,” Emanikor said. The MP said after a rally in Turkana East, people learnt that the Jubilee governor candidate Munyes missed Turkana South and Turkana West rallies and tension started building up in Lodwar and on social media. Emanikor said she withdrew her vehicles and supporters, most of whom were women. “I take this opportunity to condemn the violence meted out by both the Jubilee and ODM factions of Azimio. I also condemn acts by other coalitions who also interfered and caused confusion in the town. When UDA had their rallies in Turkana last week, none of the Azimio parties interfered,” she said. She urged political parties and their supporters to practice tolerance and respect. Earlier in the day, a viral video of a Turkana county officer was seen allegedly buying ODM T-shirts publicly in Lodwar town amid cheers from youth. 