Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has pledged to push for the introduction of electric motorcycles and tuk tuks in Mombasa county to curb the effects of carbon emissions if elected governor. Nassir, who is eyeing the seat on an ODM ticket, said the region has more than 7,000 registered tuk tuks and tens of thousands of boda boda operators. To make Mombasa a green city, he said, there will be a need to introduce electric motorcycles and tuk tuks, which are the main mode of transport for the many residents in the region. Speaking during a meeting with Nyali boda boda riders on Saturday evening, Nassir said Mombasa county will encourage the adoption of electric motor vehicles. “We all know the effects of global warming because of increased carbon emission,” he said. One of the main advantages of electric motorcycles and tuk tuks is that they use limited non-renewable fuel and do not pump out a lot of harmful emissions. Nassir further said to make Mombasa a green city, his administration will ask all registered boda boda and tuk tuk Saccos to encourage their members to buy electric motors. He was accompanied by ODM woman representative candidate for Mombasa Zamzam Mohamed during the meeting with bodaboda operators in Nyali. The Nyali boda boda leadership asked Nassir to ensure that the county builds for them an office in town. They also asked the governor candidate to have some of their members absorbed into the inspectorate department and key appointments at the policy-making tables. In his response, Nassir said he will ensure an office for boda boda riders is built at the Makadara grounds within the Mombasa central business district. “I will also ensure the boda boda fraternity are also given an opportunity in the management of the county transport system and get slots at the inspectorate department,” he said. In his manifesto, Mvita MP said, there are promises that touch on the welfare of the boda boda operators in Mombasa county. “I commit that when elected, our government shall construct dedicated stages to enable PSVs drop off and pick up passengers without obstructing traffic.” He said the conduct of the county inspectorate has been an issue of public debate among Mombasa residents, especially boda boda and tuk tuk drivers, who complain of harassment. “Our government will invest in the continuous training of county inspectorate staff to change attitudes and ensure that the people of Mombasa see them as a service instead of a force,” he said. Nassir added that they will set aside funds to partner with National Transport Safety Authority to train and issue licenses to Mombasa’s boda boda operators. “This will ensure our people understand traffic rules and operate their motorcycles safely,” he said. He further said they will assist the operators to set up and register their Saccos so that they can benefit from all of the services offered by the county government.  (edited by Amol Awuor)