President Uhuru Kenyatta’s relative and his close friend say they have no enmity with the head of state. Uhuru’s cousin Kung’u Muigai and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Monday said in Nyeri that, although they chose to differ with the President politically, they still remain good friends. Muturi said by taking a different political standpoint from the President, he did not betray their long time friendship. He said he was just fulfilling his moral obligation of guiding the Mt Kenya community to the direction he believes their interests will be catered for as Uhuru retires in the coming few weeks. “I am firmly of the view and belief that in Azimio, the interest of our community will not be taken care of. Those are just pretenders,” Muturi said. The Speaker, a friend and a key ally of President Kenyatta, now seems to read from a different script after joining Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza alliance. Uhuru has opted to support Raila Odinga-led Azimio la Umoja. Muigai, who is the patron of the Kikuyu elders, expressed similar sentiments, saying, though they differ politically with Uhuru, they relate well during family functions. He cited a traditional wedding that took place in the family recently. He said the President is not running for office but chose to support Raila and that, like him, every other Kenyan has the right to support whoever they want. “When he ran for office, as a brother, I stood with him.  But this time he is not running  and so he has chosen whoever he wants to support and so I am also free to choose who I want to support,” Muigai said. The larger President’s family, he said, is still united and that the family does its things together but has the right to have different political opinions. He said even in 2002, some members of the family opted to support Kenyatta while others supported Kibaki and that this is not the first time they are divided politically. The family, he said, will still remain united even after the election. The same, he said, applies to the elders whom he said have the right to support a presidential candidate of their choice. However, he cautioned them against scandalising or insulting each other. “Everybody should talk about the positive things of their candidate,” he said. Kikuyu elders have been divided into two, with some supporting Azimio and others Kenya Kwanza. However, Muigai said no one was being forced to follow any of the political outfits, and that they will be talking to the people and show them why they think Kenya Kwanza is good for them. They spoke at Kabiru-ini ASK showground in Nyeri after a meeting with Kiama Kia Ma elders from four counties of Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Nyeri and Laikipia to consolidate votes for Ruto. They said the meeting was also meant to explain why they support Ruto and asked the community to continue supporting him, saying, he is the only one with the community’s interest at heart.  (edited by Amol Awuor)