Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati has said he will increase scholarship beneficiaries from 7,000 to 10,000 if re-elected the governor in the forthcoming polls. The county boss faulted his opponents for fighting the scholarship kitty adding that he won’t scrap it. Wangamati was speaking in Bumula ward in Bumula Constituency on Friday during the public engagement with residents. Wangamati noted that with the remaining days to the election, he will intensify the Azimio la Umoja campaigns in Bungoma to ensure that Raila gains more votes than the Kenya kwanza team. “I have been down because my family was bereaved. I am now back to the limelight and all plans are in place to ensure that I win this election in August,” Wangamati said. He added that if his opponents win the county seat, they will scrap the scholarship kitty saying that they have no plan to support education in Bungoma. “You have heard what my opponents are saying about the scholarship kitty, please vote wisely,” Wangamati said. He added that if he wins elections, he will allocate more funds to the kitty so that more students can be supported to access education. “This year, I increased the number of beneficiaries from 5,000 to 7,000 because the performance was excellent,” he said. Wangamati said that Bungoma is an Azimio la Umoja stronghold and he won’t allow Kenya Kwanza to dominate in the region. “In 2007, 2013 and 2017 we have supported Raila Odinga therefore let us this time round stand with him to ensure that he succeeds President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said, adding that Raila has good plans to revive the economy of the country. He added, “ as the economy of the country stands it needs a visionary leader like Raila Odinga”. He said that if elected he will set up industries in every Sub County that will create employment opportunities for youths in the county. On his part, the Senatorial aspirant on DAP-K Prof. Charles Ngome who is also the deputy governor asked Bumula to rally his bid saying that for Bungoma to go ahead, Wetang'ula should be removed from the regional politics. "All the challenges that our administration has faced were created by Senator Wetang'ula and if you won't vote him out then Bungoma will never develop," Ngome said. Also present was Bumula MP on DAP- K ticket Jack Wamboka, Bungoma County woman aspirant on DAP-K Regnalda Wanyonyi among other DAP-K candidates. Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa is also backing Wangamati's re-election arguing that he has delivered. Ngome said that their administration will remain in the minds of Bungoma residents because of the scholarship thing, the dual-carriageway and the good work done in the education sector.