More than 800 court cases against Uasin Gishu government were recorded in 2019-20, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu says. She says the high number of pending and unresolved cases may have a significant financial impact on the operations of the county government. “The many pending cases can adversely affect future cash flows of the county and its operations,” Gathungu says. Gathungu, in her 2019-20 audit report for the county, says examination of records provided for the audit revealed that 886 cases were pending against the county government. She says the county explained that a number of measures had been taken to deal with the spiralling court cases. The measures include handling the matters in-house, operationalising the office of the county attorney, out-of-court settlements and the establishment of an independent fund to deal with the cases. A report from the county indicates that most of the cases were filed in court by various contractors and service providers. The audit report also highlights key areas such as concerns in budgetary control and performance during the financial year under review. Gathungu says the summary statement of appropriation-recurrent and development combined-reflects final expenditure budget amounting to Sh11.6 billion and actual expenditure of Sh8.3 billion. This resulted in under-expenditure of Sh3.3 billion or 28 per cent of the county budget for the year. The under-expenditure on development vote amounted to Sh2.9 billion or 50 per cent of the budgeted amount of Sh5.8 billion that had been set aside for development programmes. “The county management attributed the significant under-expenditure on the development vote to delays in disbursement of funds from the National Treasury and prolonged heavy rainfall experienced during the 2019-20 financial year,” Gathungu says in the audit report. She says challenges led to delays in the implementation of projects and the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic led to strict health protocols which affected most ongoing projects as contractors reduced their workforce Gathungu also flagged the county for low absorption of donor funds. The county had budgeted to use Sh1.1 billion from partners but only used Sh186 million She says the county explained that low absorption was due to late receipt of the funds and slow procurement processes, but notes that the management was unable to demonstrate how the problem could be solved. “Under-utilisation of grants implies non-delivery of planned projects for the residents of Uasin Gishu county,” Gathungu says. She has also questioned the use of Sh4.9 million paid through imprest for facilitation of six night outs for 62 members of the county assembly. Gathungu says the county government did not provide an explanation on why it incurred expenditure on behalf of the county assembly, which has its own budget.