The UDA gubernatorial candidate Katoo ole Metito on Tuesday said his main agenda if elected, is to nurture the economy of Kajiado. Metito, who spoke to the Star on the phone, said Kajiado is endowed with a lot of resources that if harnessed well, the region could lead other counties in revenue collection. He said the county can produce enough sand annually for the construction industry in Nairobi, Machakos, and Kiambu. “It also can produce enough building stones annually for the said region. We also produce marble and have the largest mine in Maili 46,” said Metito. The UDA gubernatorial candidate said the county can collect about Sh6.8 billion in revenue alone from the mineral resources and an extra Sh500 million from agricultural resources in Loitokitok and surrounding areas of Kimana, Illasit, and Rombo where the large-scale growing of tomatoes and maize is done. “If elected as the next Kajiado governor, my team will address the working needs of county health workers by harmonising their remuneration,” said Metito. He also said he will ensure emergency response units of the health sector such as ambulance services are available and reliable. The county hospitals, he said, ran out of drugs because of poor planning of financial resources, and his team will prioritise the payment of drugs at KEMSA. Metito said he will build the required infrastructure to upgrade and modernise health facilities by creating sub-county centres of excellence. He said he will upgrade the Kajiado referral hospital to a working and reliable medical facility. “My government will also provide NHIF cover to the elderly and people with disabilities,” he added. Commission on Revenue Allocation The Commission on Revenue Allocation's latest report states that Kajiado’s own-source revenue has been growing over the past six years. It states that in the 2013/14 financial year, revenue collection was Sh453 million, and this grew to Sh786 million in the 2014/15 financial year. In the 2015/16 financial year, the collection dipped to Sh651 million and further dipped to Sh557 million in the 2016/17 financial year. In the 2017/18 financial year, the revenue collection returned to a positive growth pattern collecting Sh682 million. In the 2018/19 financial year, the collection was the highest at Sh884 million. The OSR for Kajiado, the reports say, has grown the most in the second year and marginally improved after that. The report further says Kajiado county is operating significantly below its estimated revenue potential. In 2018/19 which is the highest reported collection, the county was collecting 13 per cent of the estimated revenue potential of the County. The estimated revenue potential of Kajiado county is Sh6.8 billion. The report further states that there is a need for revenue enhancement reforms that will lead to revenue growth patterns that move the county towards its estimated revenue potential.