Fresh from winning the Dala Sevens title, Homeboyz coach Oscar Ayodi is bullish about the Deejays' chances at the Prinsloo Sevens this weekend. Homeboyz headline Pool 'A' of the Rift Valley leg in Nakuru, where they face Catholic Monks, Kabras Sugar and Western Bulls. In winning the Dala title, Homeboyz became the fourth team to win a leg of the circuit after KCB, Strathmore and Mwamba but Ayodi feels they can clinch another victory. "It will be a fresh start going forward. The boys are excited and relishing the challenge but will not underestimate any team,” said Ayodi. Meanwhile, second-placed Menengai Oilers will bank on home support as they battle to win their first tournament of the season. They headline Pool'B' alongside cross-town rivals Nakuru RFC, Masinde Muliro University and Kisumu RFC. Gibson Weru's charges have played two finals — in Mombasa and Kisumu — losing to Mwamba and Homeboyz respectively. However, Weru hopes it will be the third time lucky, saying: "If we can reduce the errors we have made in the two finals we have lost, then we can win the tournament. Generally, the boys are in the right frame of mind and this being a home tournament, it will spur the boys.” Series leaders KCB have a tricky outing in Pool 'C' where they meet Nondies, Impala and Quins. Coach Dennis Mwanja said there is no margin for error. "It's an open group. Quins will want to bounce back after a poor show in Kisumu, Impala are dangerous and for me, Nondies have made a tremendous improvement so far in the series. We must be at our best for the three matches," said Mwanja. Pool 'D' will see Mwamba face off against Strathmore Leos, Blak Blad and promoted Vihiga Granites — who won the second-tier competition last season. The top two teams in each pool qualify for the Main Cup quarters while the rest are relegated to the classification matches set for Sunday. The series will conclude with the Kakamega Sevens on July 16-17. Standings KCB 75 points Oilers 72 Strathmore 66 Mwamba 63 Homeboyz 60