@robertomollo3 Some ODM governor candidates in Nyanza continue to face challenges in campaigns despite being endorsed by party leader Raila Odinga. The candidates campaigns are not a walk in the park as that of their colleagues who contested in the past election. Previously, candidates flying the ODM ticket would slow down their campaign momentum and vigorous political activities after emerging winners in the party primaries. Nyanza region, which comprises of Homa Bay, Kisii, Kisumu, Nyamira, Migori and Siaya counties is perceived as the political bastion of Raila. In the 2017 general election, all governors were elected on the party ticket. They were Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), James Ongwae (Kisii), Anyang Nyong'o (Kisumu), Okoth Obado (Migori), Colonel Rasanga (Siaya) and the deceased John Nyagarama (Nyamira) Governors Awiti, Ongwae, Obado and Rasanga are finishing their second and final term in office as the party candidates in their respective counties strive to succeed them. Gladys Wanga who is the current Homa Bay woman representative wants to succeed Awiti, Senators James Orengo and Ochilo Ayacko want to succeed Rasanga and Obado respectively. Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati is out to take over from Ongwae of Kisii while Nyong'o is defending his Kisumu seat. Political observer Gor Oloo said ODM candidates are finding it rough in their campaigns to succeed the outgoing governors in Nyanza due to underperformance. He said majority of the governors have been hiding behind the ODM party and Raila to get elected and fail to deliver afterwards. Oloo who spoke to journalists in Homa Bay town on Tuesday said most of the governors are accused of graft as they have a lot of audit queries. “Many residents believe that status quo will remain if ODM candidates especially in Luo-Nyanza are elected,” he said. Oloo also said repeated nominations by ODM National Elections Board also put the party candidates at a disadvantage. The party NEB, on several occasions, has been accused of mishandling primaries and favouring particular aspirants. The party also issued direct tickets to all its preferred candidates for governor seat in Nyanza, despite promising to conduct credible primaries. Oloo says this has seen many residents protest against the party as some openly campaign for ODM opponents. He also said some ODM politicians use dubious means including bribing NEB officials to get the party tickets. “Most of ODM politicians focus on getting the party ticket and forget about developing residents. This time round they are being told to put the interest of residents first,” Oloo said. For two weeks, Raila toured Nyanza and endorsed the ODM candidates by lifting up their hands in public. The ODM leader asked residents to stand with the candidates on grounds that they are his foot soldiers and would help the party to remain strong in the region. The tour saw Raila endorsed Orengo, Wanga, Nyong'o, and Ayacko. Arati and Timothy Bosire of Nyamira have not been directly endorsed by Raila. However, Oloo says nothing much has changed in favour of the ODM candidates since Raila toured the region. Wanga is still having a hectic campaign time against independent Evans Kidero while Orengo is facing UDM’s Nicholas Gumbo. The same fate is facing Nyong'o who is running against MDG’s Jack Ranguma as Ayacko faces DAP-K’s John Pesa and Dalmas Otieno (Jubilee). “Residents argue that political parties don’t implement development only individuals do. They support Raila for president but will vote for a person they think will develop them as governor,” Oloo said. The fact that Raila is contesting presidency on Azimio-One Kenya Coalition party instead of ODM is also campaign fodder for opponents. “Six-piece voting may fail to carry the day because Raila is seeking presidency on a different party ticket. Most opponents use the platform to dismiss ODM candidates,” Oloo said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)