The Kenya Forest Service has warned individuals who have encroached on forest lands to move out since they are moving in reclaim them. Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau on Wednesday warned that there were individuals who occupied lands in the forests and pretended that it was not an issue. However, Kamau said while the national tree campaigns were ongoing, the KFS was able to identify portions of lands that had been grabbed. He added that they have already reclaimed 57 hectares of lands that were in wrong hands. Kamau said the portions are in different forests amounting to 57 hectares. "We will not allow anyone to continue holding forest lands. We shall ensure we have left the forest lands in the good hands of the government" he said. He spoke at Ragia forest in Lari subcounty where he led a tree planting exercise that was organised by Dedan Kimathi Foundation and the Kenya Defence Forces. KDF soldiers were led by Major HK Sandars and the Kimathi foundation was led by its CEO Everlyne Wanjiku. Also present were Lari deputy county commissioner James Kamau, Kinale assistant county commissioner Lillian Kwamboka and Lari headquarters assistant county commissioner. Others were Becky Chepkemoi and Kiambu county ecosystem conservator Thomas Kiptoo. The KFS boss also sent a stern warning to anyone planning to destroy and steal forest vegetation. Kamau said the government was keen in checking and protecting the trees planted in the forests, adding that anyone who will be found will face the full force of the law whether that person is an officer or a community forest association member. He applauded stakeholders and partners for working hard to support the government's new set target of achieving 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. "The work we have done has seen the 10 per cent target being surpassed and now we are at 12.3 per cent," he said. Kamau also applauded the national government officers who have partnered with them to ensure no trees are stolen and have also enlightened the society about the need to protect the environment. Lari deputy county commissioner said the government was supporting all stakeholders to ensure its strategies and efforts to recover forests are achieved. The chief conservator said they aim at conserving water catchment areas by restoring forests. He further said a tributary from Ragia forest flows its waters to Kariminu dam which is important to residents and neighbouring counties. Kamau applauded President Uhuru Kenyatta's intervention years ago when KFS and environmentalists protested that the environment was at risk owing to wanton destruction of forests. He said in 2013, the forest cover stood at 6.99 per cent and it has grown tremendously when Uhuru launched the national tree planting campaign. As of now, Kamau said the head of state has issued a new target of 30 per cent tree cover to be achieved by 2030. The conservator said Nyandarua stands at 27 per cent while Kiambu is at 19 per cent forest cover, adding that there is a lot of work that needs to be done.  (edited by Amol Awuor)