There will be no transfer activity at Ulinzi starlets as the soldiers already have a complete squad, according to coach Joseph Mwanza. Mwanza believes all his players have what it takes to deliver on the field and has no intention of offloading any or making new signings. "We have quality everywhere. We are neither signing nor releasing players because all the players deserve to wear the Ulinzi badge," he said. Mwanza further added that the team will only move into the transfer market should players be called up for military duties. He also urged players who had little playing time last season to fight for their future and challenged them to prove themselves in training. "We will only change our stance if there will be military duties that will require our players to be away." He added: "All my players are good but they cannot all play at the same time.  Some players missed playing time last season but that doesn't mean they aren't good enough to help the team. Everyone starts afresh in the preseason and selection will purely be based on merit." The Super Cup champions lost just once but drew 10 games last season to put a dent in their title hopes. Despite finishing second in the 12-team league, Ulinzi were 17 points adrift of champions Vihiga Queens. The soldiers managed 43 points as compared to Vihiga's 60. "That was always expected because the team was in transition. Injuries and work-related commitment also limited the team's options in attack," revealed Mwanza. "Our lethal captain Neddy Atieno was selected to serve in the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee. Lucy Mukhwana went for career  progression while the pair of Diana Shakava and Silya Rasoa suffered injuries." He added: "When you are building a team, there are always hiccups that you will meet along the way and that serves as a learning curve." Ulinzi signed Mercy Airo in mid-season from Gaspo Women to beef up their depleted attack but the protracted transfer saga limited the buccaneering attacker to only five appearances.