Candidates in Taita Taveta county have ditched the traditional major rally campaigns for smaller meetings in halls. In Voi, for instance, candidates have been meeting ethnic welfare groups and businesspeople to rally for support. In previous electioneering, the county’s major towns of Voi, Mwatate, Wundanyi, and Taveta would be characterised by huge political rallies convened by candidates. However, things are taking a new twist with nearly all front runners in the gubernatorial, Senate, and woman representative seats courting small groups. Only campaign vehicles mounted with loudspeakers are traversing the towns playing loud campaign songs. The method, some say, is cost-effective and easier to convince voters without distraction from warring sides. Voi MP candidate Albunus Muli on Monday said it is better to meet 300 people from the same ethnic group or business than 500 people in a rally. “It is easier to convince them to vote for you.” Muli who is vying on Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party said it is such groups that are likely to determine the race, owing to the fact that the seats have attracted a long list of candidates. He said candidates who will successfully convince different ethnic groups are likely to be ahead of others who are concentrating on open-air rallies. “The secret is getting enough votes from non-indigenous communities who form the majority of the voting bloc. These groups can only be reached during their weekly meetings,” Muli said. Senator Jones Mwaruma said he is keen on consolidating support from small groupings before the end of the campaign period. He spoke during a meeting with teachers at Taveta town on Saturday. “As we approach the tail-end of the campaign period, we keep on consolidating our support base. We engaged teachers on a wide range of issues concerning their welfare as well as guiding our people on the right voting pattern,” he said. Mwaruma said he was using the meetings to rope in everyone in the journey of securing a second term. Earlier, he had met with the Anyuol group from the Luo community and Voi business people from the Kamba community. Tens of candidates also flooded a welfare meeting by the Kamba community living in Voi on Sunday, wooing them to back them. They were led by Woman MP Lydia Haika and governor candidate Dan Mwazo (Wiper), Andrew Mwadime (independent) and DAP-K’s George Mwandembo. Haika lauded the community for backing her bid in the last election and promised to push for an increment in National Government Affirmative Action Fund allocation once reelected. “My agenda is for all groups in the county to benefit from the NGAAF grant. This will help boost their income,” she said. Mwazo said the Kamba community commands more than 33,000 votes of the 181,827 registered voters in the region. He asked them to keenly vet all candidates and make an informed decision that would help the community prosper. “We are in this current mess as a county government because you did not make the right decision last election as a swing vote. This time, the Kamba will determine who wins,” Mwazo said. He promised to appoint a Cabinet minister from the community and include them in other roles once in office. The former senator also said he will set up a modern market, which would highly benefit hundreds of business people in Voi town. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)