Steve Kamuyu is a patient man who believes that through perseverance, dedication and agility one can achieve anything in life. Kamuyu, Director Enterprise Business at Huawei Kenya has risen up through the ranks at the technology firm over 17 years. “The success I have personally had in Huawei, and of the company in Kenya overall, has been due to taking the same approach as Eliud Kipchoge of persevering to overcome challenges, and dedicating ourselves non-stop to developing the best technologies, people and service for Kenya,” The University of Nairobi alumni graduated in 2003 with a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical and Electronics Engineering. He later joined Huawei Kenya as an account manager in 2005, a position he served for two years before later on being promoted to a senior account manager in 2007 to 2012. In 2012 he was chosen to become the deputy account director and later rose to his current position as the Account Director. What are some of your biggest achievements in Huawei? Successfully lead my team in delivering key projects and innovative solutions and services to support our customers network and business growth; Given several prestigious awards by our company for my contribution to our company business success. Played a major role in culture integration & conveyance of our company core values, setting a remarkable pace for other local staff career growth and self-actualization. When you took over as the Director Enterprise Business, what were some of your expectations and targets? Widen my networking in the public sector and tactfully maximize my experience to handle more challenging work targets and complex market segment. Have you already achieved some of your targets and expectations and there any you feel may not be possible? It’s truly fulfilling to see myself taking up challenging responsibilities and steadily finding solutions to support our customer business growth and in return our company business success. Embracing & practicing our company core values has helped me to weather down huge challenges & remain focused to the target and mission. What is your next move? Self-actualization is highest need according to Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. As I widen my contribution in our company to serve our customers and Kenyans though our innovative products, solutions and services, my target is to grow my career into the next level. Anything you would like to add? I wish to let all Kenyans know that they can truly be champions in their space and world. But there is a certain discipline & orientation one has to take in order to remain focused. And that's the core values we are talking about. “Generals are not made in the palace, but rather in the battlefield”