Machakos Wiper gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti has refuted claims by her political opponents that she is tribal. She said she has never been tribal terming the claims as malicious and intended to taint her image among the electorate ahead of the August 9, polls. Ndeti spoke on Saturday while addressing more than 1,000 members of the Gikuyu, Embu and Meru Association at her home in Kinanie, Mavoko subcounty. “My father started this town, Athi River, in 1945. I’m born and raised in Athi River. I was raised in a family, which doesn’t know the meaning of tribalism,” she said. The candidate said those who knew her when she was Kathiani MP, know she is not tribal. “People spread propaganda that I’m tribal. When I look at your face, I see the face of Christ. I don’t care where you come from. If you come with a problem, I have to listen and help you. “I want to assure the 45 tribes in Machakos county, we are going to work together. No child is an insider or outsider, all are my mother's children and this is your home,” she said. Ndeti urged the Gema community to support her bid and form the next Machakos government together. She said if elected, her administration will ensure the livelihoods of residents are improved. The former Transport CAS further said the business interests of the Gema community will be catered for by her government. She promised to relieve traders in Machakos county from being taxed lots of money for multiple business permits. "I know traders face a lot of challenges in Machakos county. Traders pay three or four times for licenses if they have multiple businesses within the county. "If I win and we are going to in Jesus name, we will fix all these things in 30 days. Single business permit licenses will be paid once whether you have several businesses in the county,” Ndeti said. She said residents can’t be happy if the county government keeps collecting taxes, but no services are rendered. “You can’t collect people’s money and you aren’t giving them services. Machakos residents are suffering because of several problems including water, health, education, agriculture and business,” Ndeti said. The candidate said she has traversed all corners of the county and is aware of all problems residents face. Gema, Machakos chairman Joseph Githeu said they visited Ndeti following her invitation. “We members of Gema, Kyama Kyama community from Machakos county visited her because she wanted to request for our votes. “She had requested us to mobilise more than 2,000 members but were only managed 1,000, 300 others are from the Kamba community living in the county,” he said. Githeu said they endorsed Ndeti for the Machakos governor since she is the only candidate among the five contesting for the seat, who requested for their support and votes. Others in the race include Nzioka Waita (CCU), Machakos deputy governor Francis Maliti (Maendeleo Chap Chap), former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama (UDA) and ELP leader Rose Mulwa. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)