Kenya Ports Authority are ‘doing fine’ in training ahead of their top-of-the-bill Kenya National Basketball League encounter against visiting Ulinzi Warriors this weekend Coach Sammy Kiki said they have been hard at work seeking to rectify the mistakes they displayed in their 73-63 defeat to Africa Nazarene University in Nairobi last weekend. “We are doing fine in training,” said Kiki. “We are working hard to rectify our mistakes, especially in defence.” This will be the first meeting between the two giants and serves as the porters' first home match of the season at the Makande Welfare Hall and Kiki is keen to get everything right in their quest to leave a smile on their fans’ faces. “The players are responding well to training as we work on our chemistry in attack,” said Kiki. in a top-of-the-bill Kenya National Basketball League KNBL encounter in Mombasa this weekend. The soldiers, who won a closely-fought battle, 47-41, against the University of Nairobi “Terrorists” are yet to find their rhythm in attack. Meanwhile, debutants Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology face a tough away task against women’s champions KPA. Zetech University teams — Titans and Sparks will also be at the coastal city for a set of tight matches against the porters on Sunday. At the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium, Equity Bank Hawks will play Eagle Wings on Saturday while Thunder tackle an upbeat Umoja side. Umoja will hope to build on their 77-68 over-time victory over the Titans, their first win for the season. On Sunday, Hawks, who struggled before beating a Strathmore University Swords side 54-41, face Storms. A tight varsity duel will see Africa Nazarene University confront the Terrorists, who lost 67-46 to Equity Bank Dumas last weekend. “Terror is a very good team. We have met many times before. They shoot and go for transition a lot so we have to balance the court and rotate well in our defence,” said ANU coach Mike Oluoch. “They crush well for rebounds, so we have to box them out. We are preparing well for the game and God-willing we will play well and win.”