Governor candidates Simba Arati of Kisii and Irungu Kang’ata of Murang'a would win if the election was held today, a survey by Tifa Research shows. The poll findings released on Thursday showed the two lawmakers command large leads over their closest challengers. The survey indicates 66 per cent of voters in Kisii would choose Arati while his closest challenger Ezekiel Machogu would be elected by 11 per cent. Only three per cent of the respondents said they preferred Chris Obure for the top county job. Undecided voters accounted for 15 per cent of the respondents in the survey that was conducted between 5-7 July 2022. Data was collected through telephone interviews from 516 respondents. The margin of error was +/- 4.3 per cent. Arati’s ODM is the most preferred party in the county with an approval rating of 47 per cent followed by Machogu’s UDA, which scored 18 per cent. Jubilee scored four per cent, with one per cent of the respondents saying they felt closest to Roots Party. Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja is the most popular coalition in Kisii county at 57 per cent. Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance scored 20 per cent. Raila is the most preferred presidential candidate among Kisii voters (61 per cent) followed by Ruto (20 per cent). Roots presidential candidate George Wajackoyah is preferred by one per cent of the voters. Richard Onyonka is the most preferred senatorial candidate (27 per cent) followed by James Magara (nine per cent) and Joash Maangi (five per cent). Donya Toto is the most preferred woman representative candidate (32 per cent) followed by Janet Ongera (15 per cent). In Murang’a, Kang'ata has the highest support for the governor seat (58 per cent) followed by Jamleck Kamau (13 per cent), Wairagu wa Maai (five per cent) and Irungu Nyakera (three per cent). UDA is the most popular party in Murang’a county (57 per cent), Jubilee (11 per cent) and ODM (three per cent). Joe Nyutu is the most popular candidate for the senatorial seat in Murang’a (42 per cent) followed by Kembi Gitura (nine per cent) and Hellen Kigia Mwangi (six per cent). Betty Maina (37 per cent) is almost twice as popular as her nearest rival, Waithira Kibinda (19 per cent). Sixty-two per cent of the respondents in Murang’a prefer Ruto as their presidential candidate, while 18 per cent will vote for Raila. Wajackoyah is preferred by four per cent of voters. Data was collected between 25-26 June 2022 from 407 respondents both male and female. The margin of error was +/-4.9 per cent. George Natembeya has a large lead over Chris Wamalwa in the Trans Nzoia governor race. Natembeya is supported by 56 per cent of voters while Wamalwa is preferred by 21 per cent of the electorate. Henry Ndiema and Allan Chesang  tied in the senatorial race for Trans Nzoia at 24 per cent. Lillian Siyoi has the highest support for the Trans Nzoia woman representative seat at 22 per cent, followed by Susan Nakhumicha at 11 per cent. The proportion of undecided voters is very high at 40 per cent. In the presidential contest, Raila is more popular than Ruto at 52 per cent and 34 per cent respectively. The survey was conducted between 28-29 June 2022. Data was collected through Computer Aided Telephonic Interviews 416 respondents both male and female. The margin of error was +/-4.8 per cent. In Nyamira, Amos Nyaribo is the preferred governor candidate followed by Walter Nyambati at 36 and 19 per cent respectively. Timothy Bosire is supported by 11 per cent of voters while Bernard Momanyi is preferred by nine per cent of voters. Mogeni Erick Okong’o is the most preferred senatorial candidate after he scored 39 per cent followed by Kennedy Mong’are Okong’o (13 per cent) and Nyambega Mose (seven per cent). Jerusha Momanyi is the most preferred woman representative candidate (28 per cent) and Emily Matoke (21 per cent). In the presidential contest, 58 per cent will vote for Raila, while 26 per cent prefer Ruto. Data was collected through telephonic interviews between July5-7, 2022 from 626 voters. The margin of error was +/- 3.0 per cent. In Isiolo, Godana Doyo (independent) is the most popular gubernatorial candidate in the county followed by Abdi Guyo (Jubilee). Doyo is preferred by 45 per cent of voters while Guyo is supported by 34 per cent of the electorate. Fatuma Adana Dullo is the most popular senator candidate in Isiolo county (47 per cent) followed by Nuh Mohamed Ibrahim (26 per cent). Rehema Dida Jaldesa is the most popular woman representative candidate in Isiolo county, followed by Mumina Golo. Jaldesa and Golo are supported by 36 per cent and 29 per cent of voters respectively. Raila is the most popular presidential candidate with a lead of eight per cent against main competitor Ruto. The Azimio presidential candidate is preferred by 50 per cent of voters while Ruto is supported by 42 per cent of the electorate. The survey was conducted between July 5 and 6, 2022. Data was collected from 435 residents through telephonic interviews. The margin of error was +/- 4.7 per cent.