Gukena FM's MC Jimmie Kajim on Sunday held a thanksgiving event at his home in Kiambu county. MC Kajim was celebrating his seven years working in the media Industry and his transition from the secular industry to fully serving God. The event was held at Mang'u Primary School in Gatundu constituency. Speaking to Word Is, MC Kajim said he is no longer going to host Mugiithi concerts. "I have never gone back home to say thank you to the people who raised me, and that is why I came," he said. "I also wanted to inspire the generation that no matter where you come from, you can be something." Kajim said he did not use a coin to mobilise people to attend the event, although it was full. "This shows the influence I have on the people. I stopped MCeeing Mugiithi and withdrew from my ambassadorial job of the alcohol brand I was advertising for," he said. "This event is a form of transition to my next step, which will be to serve God with my talent. Moving forward, there will be more gospel concerts." Speaking about the decision, MC Kajim said he was making money from the secular events but he was not content. "It was not bringing happiness to my life," he said. "I have been born again even before but I was exploring a career since there was a loophole. It was more about money." MC Kajim wants to concentrate more on corporate events and build his new brand. He said his friends support him since he does the same to them. "I believe in giving my all in wherever place I am. Being an influential person means you attract all people, from children to old people," he said. The evening event hosted various business industry gurus, politicians and other celebrities. Politicians who attended the event included Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege and aspiring MP Elijah Kururia. Artistes who performed included gospel singer Betty Bayo, Sammy K, Mugiithi singers, DJ Fatxo and Jose Gatutura. MC Kajim also praised his wife Silvana Wambui for being supportive of his achievements.