The government has been urged to invest more in technical and vocational training institutes to improve access to education. TVET authority board chairperson Florence Indede said they are committed to addressing the institutions reforms. She spoke on Thursday during the launch of a Kenyan Journal to guide research in Technical, Vocation and Training Institutes. “I urge all TVET institutions to enhance research and innovation by dedicating more resources as stipulated in the Science Technology and Innovations Act,” Indede said. According to the journal, most TVETs are not equipped with sufficient digital devices. If well funded, TVETs will be able to offer distance and online classes to students. “The study concludes that TVET readiness for online teaching remains underachieved, despite e-learning being the new normal,” the journal reads. According to the research, 75 per cent of the surveyed institutions had internet connectivity, with 60 per cent having well established computer network to support e-learning. "However, only 58 (35%) of the institutions had teleconferencing applications and software to support virtual learning," the journal reads. Currently, all TVET students go to school physically due to unavailable distance learning materials, including devices and internet connection. The study further says there is low tutor to computer ratio and lack of teleconferencing facilities. If this is adopted, the research reveals that access to TVET education will be increased across the country. “TVET stakeholders should endeavor to entrench e-learning within the TVET system in order to reap the many benefits of ICT,” the journal reads. The authority urged the government to allocate funds to enable the institutions to facilitate acquisition of digital devices. In the 2022-2027 TVET's plan by the Ministry of Education, Sh1.55 billion will be spent to implement several policies. These include Sh197 million for strengthening knowledge and Sh113 million for effective implementation of TVET programmes. Another Sh245 million will be spent on provision of adequate data on relevance and assessment of TVET programmes and Sh454 million on enhancing knowledge on efficient resource mobilisation. “The ministry is set to spend Sh588 million to enhance governance and management of TVET,” the plan reads. Education CS George Magoha said the ministry is working on a policy to commercialise TVET research. Magoha’s speech was read by TVET director Tom Mulati during the launch. This means soon research products from TVET institutions and their stakeholders will be sold to clients. “Commercialisation will provide additional revenue to the institutions and ensure that equipment provided by the government are effectively used,” Magoha said. The CS also said the research will be used to provide solutions to common problems facing the society. He however challenged TVET researchers to focus on emerging issues in the sub sector when handling the next research journal. “Future research themes should consider new approaches in TVET trainer education and continuous professional development,” Magoha said. Other issues, which Magoha wanted addressed include smart teaching, trend analysis, sustainable TVET funding and development, blue economy and green TVET. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)