President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday commended State House Staff for their commitment and dedication to serving the nation in the last ten years. Uhuru spoke after attending a special thanksgiving prayer and worship service to mark his and First lady Margaret Kenyatta's successful 10-year tenure. He thanked the staff for the different roles they played in helping him deliver on his mandate, as the Head of State. "On my own behalf, the First Lady and my entire family, we are grateful to all of you, all departments of State House, for we have worked very well together. We shall miss each one of you, and we will carry fond memories of working together in the service of our nation," he said. “It has, indeed, been a great pleasure and a great joy working with you because if you are working in an environment where you are happy, you are also able to deliver.” Uhuru called on members of staff who will remain at State House to support the incoming administration and serve with zeal to keep propelling the nation to greater heights in development. “The Government, the country cannot stop. It will move on. We took the mantle from others and we shall pass it on to others because the country must move forward," he stated. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua noted that President Kenyatta’s vision and leadership in his two five-year terms have seen the country make great strides development wise. Kinyua cited the Stand Gauge Railway (SGR) and the Nairobi Expressway as some of Uhuru's legacy projects that will benefit the country for generations. State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua said the transformation of State House under Uhuru’s leadership has made it a more conducive place to work in. “You have shown us how to serve. Your generosity and your openness to other Kenyans and your care for their welfare, your patriotism, these are lasting example you and the First Lady left for posterity. You have been our model of what a leader can and should be. Your legacy is seen, your example will always remain in our hearts,” he noted.