Former Formula 1 boss Bernie Ecclestone will be charged with fraud by false representation following an investigation into overseas assets believed to be worth more than £400m. The 91-year-old spent 40 years as the head of F1 before being removed as its chief executive officer in 2017. The Crown Prosecution Service said the charge follows an investigation by HMRC. “The CPS has authorised a charge against Bernard Ecclestone,” it said. The CPS said the charge of fraud is “in respect of his failure to declare to HMRC the existence of assets held overseas believed to be worth in excess of £400m”. Last month Ecclestone said he would “take a bullet” for Russia’s president Vladimir Putin in an interview with ITV’s Good Morning Britain. In May, Ecclestone — who was involved with F1 in various roles since the 1950s — was arrested in Brazil for illegally carrying a gun while boarding a plane. Meanwhile, IndyCar driver Colton Herta is to test for McLaren this week. The American, one of the most highly regarded drivers in the US-based single-seater series, is a potential candidate for a future McLaren seat. Herta, 22, will drive a 2021 McLaren at Portimao in Portugal — where grand prix were held in 2020 and 2021 - on 11-13 July. “Colton is a proven talent in IndyCar,” McLaren team principal Andreas Seidl said. “We will be interested to see how he adapts to a Formula 1 car. “We believe this testing programme will provide him with valuable experience while demonstrating the benefit of expanding previous car testing to showcase promising drivers for the future.” McLaren have signed Lando Norris to a long-term deal until the end of 2025 but they are considering their options for the second seat, currently occupied by Daniel Ricciardo. The Australian has struggled to match Norris since joining McLaren in 2021 and there are questions over his future at the team. Ricciardo is contractually committed to McLaren until the end of 2023, which is also the date at which Herta’s deal with the Andretti Autosport team expires. Herta has ambitions to race in F1 and the sport has long sought a competitive American driver to help it make an impact in the US marketplace. If he impresses in the test, a switch to F1 with McLaren in 2024 as a replacement for Ricciardo could suit both partie