Africa 1,500 metres African champion Winny Chebet hopes the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham will hold out better tidings following her debacle in Oregon. Chebet said she was heading to Birmingham eager to brush aside her heartwrenching experience in Oregon where she trailed the pack. “My next focus is the Commonwealth Games and I want to see if I can get something there. I'll sit down with my coach so that we can plan on how to succeed in Birmingham. I'm eager to record an improved performance there.” “I wish my teammates all the best in Birmingham and I'm urging them to give their best performance so that we can all make the country proud. “There is nothing to give us sleepless nights ahead of the Commonwealth Games. There won't be much difference between the kind of competition we experienced here and what we expect to get in Birmingham. It's the same athletes we shall be meeting there,” Chebet said. Chebet failed to impress in the sizzling women's 1500m final at the Hayward Field track in Eugene on Wednesday, fizzling out to a disappointing 13th place. She had finished sixth in the Heat 1 in a season-best time of 4:03.08 to book a berth in the finals. Despite the debacle, the Thika barracks-based soldier said she was returning home with her head held high after securing a berth in the thrilling finals. “I thank God I managed to book a place in the finals. It wasn't all that easy but we are grateful Faith won Kenya's first gold medal because other athletes brought home silver and bronze,” Chebet said. Her performance was in stark contrast to the amazing show exhibited by the newly crowned World champion Faith Kipyegon. The 28-year-old mother of one, put in a scintillating performance in the women's 1500m final at Oregon22 in Eugene to fire past a competitive field, clocking an impressive 3:52.96 on her way to retaining the world title she first bagged in 2017. Chebet insists Oregon presented invaluable experiences that she will capitalise on to impress in Birmingham. The Kiptere Secondary School alumnae, whose skills were refined by junior coach Japhet Kemei, was making her third appearance at the world event, having lost in the semi-finals in 2017 London before finishing fifth at the 2019 Doha. She was in her best element during the World Athletics Championships and Commonwealth Games trials at the Moi Stadium Kasarani on June 24, where she clocked four minutes and 11.21 seconds to win the women’s 1,500m race. Chebet had proved her prowess in the 800 metres race before dabbling in her new challenge. She was christened the `Silver Girl' after garnishing her cabinet with five silvers clinched in the World Youth and World Juniors championships. 