Three times world Champion Ezekiel Kemboi has endorsed Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga for the top seat. He spoke on Sunday during the Coalition campaigns in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County. The athlete while addressing residents said Raila is the best bet for the region. "Mi nimekuja hapa kama last born wa Baba. Kwa majina naitwa Ezekiel Kemboi Amolo (I've come here as Baba's last born. My name is Ezekiel Kemboi Amolo)," he said. The athlete assured that his presence in Raila's team meant that the issues of the youth will be prioritized. "Mkiona niko hapa, maswala ya vijana nitashughulikia. Hamtakuwa mnapiga simu. Mimi mwenyewe nitakuwa nyumbani. Mi nitawakaribisha nyumbani (When you see me here, I will deal with the issues of youth. You won't have to call. I will be at home, I will invite you)." Raila had led campaigns to UDA leader William Ruto's backyard, where he led an itinerary from Nandi County to Uasin Gishu. Speaking during the campaigns, Junet promised that the Azimio administration will address the needs of farmers. Raila's running mate Martha Karua said they are keen on promoting equality for all Kenyans regardless of political affiliation, class or gender. She urged their opponents to stop lying that their lives are in danger yet they enjoy state protection. "I urge the DP, If you think anyone in your household is in danger, please assign officers to them. And if the officers aren't enough, you're employed by the State, ask for more officers," she said. "But I urge you, please do not lead our nation towards the wrong direction, saying things you know are not true like that your family is in danger." This comes after Ruto alleged that his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta was threatening him, and urged him to spare his children. “With a lot of respect be a decent human being, we are the ones who helped you so stop pretending now, you have started threatening me but as long as you don't harm my children, let us respect each other,” he said while speaking in Kapsabet, Nandi County on Friday. Karua wondered how the citizens were going to feel safe if someone in Ruto's position felt threatened. "There is no use in lying for political reasons. We have to agree on what these Kenyans will decide on August 9," she said. The Narc leader reiterated her urge to Kenyans to vote for honest leaders, who embrace integrity.