Supreme Court judges are under no obligation to review judgments and decisions of judges sacked on disciplinary grounds. This follows the enactment of a law that deletes the provision that required the apex court to review the judgments and decisions of such judges. The Supreme Court Amendment Act 2022 removes from the apex court the responsibility of reviewing the decisions of the sacked judges. “The principal Act is amended by repealing section 14 [of the Supreme Court Act, 2011],” the new law assented to by President Uhuru Kenyatta on June 21 reads. The expunged law required the court to review the decisions - either on its own motion or on the application of any person – from June 23, 2011. The decisions were to include those arising from cases by judges removed from office on account of a recommendation by a tribunal appointed by the President. The apex court was to look at such cases and whether they were dispensed of before or after the commencement of the Supreme Court Act, 2012. Decisions of judges removed from office under the Vetting of Judges and Magistrates Act, 2011 were also to be reviewed. Also to be reviewed were cases that were decided by judges who resigned or opted to retire following a complaint of misconduct or misbehaviour. Even so, the cases were only to be reopened if the judgment or decision was the basis of the removal, resignation, retirement, or complaint against the judge. It required the Supreme Court to conduct a preliminary inquiry to determine the admissibility of the matter, and also determine if it had all the necessary powers to determine the review. Those that were filed for review before the expunged law was in place were to be dispensed of by the year 2015 – two years since the apex court’s law came into force. Recently, former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko moved to the apex court seeking a review of the judgment which upheld his impeachment in 2020. In the matter, mentioned on Tuesday, Sonko wants Chief Justice Martha Koome to recuse herself from the matter. The ex-governor cited the grounds that Justice Koome made remarks to the effect that impeached public officers shouldn’t be cleared by the IEBC to contest elections. He also argues that Justice Said Chitembwe, who was part of the High Court bench that ruled on his impeachment, is presently under investigation for alleged misconduct. Sonko argues that the Judicial Service Commission found that the judge had a case to answer, citing findings of the team that were forwarded to President Kenyatta leading to Chitembwe’s suspension. On July 15, the Supreme Court dismissed Sonko’s appeal holding that an impeached person cannot be allowed to contest elections into a public office – in their lifetime. Since the promulgation of the constitution which set the Supreme Court as the apex court, the bench has yet to review the decisions of judges sacked on disciplinary grounds. (Edited by Tabnacha O)