The Children’s department in Murang’a county has raised concerns over increased cases of child neglect and called on parents to stop the vice. Murang’a South Children Services assistant director Mary Mburu said her office has recorded more than 100 cases of child neglect between April and July this year, with the perpetrators attributing the negligence to the high cost of living. “In a week, we record and try to arbitrate five to seven cases, three of which major on child neglect. The rest border on abandonment, truancy and defilement,” Mburu said. “Majority of the perpetrators blame the current economy and unemployment, but that is not an excuse to abandon and or neglect a child.” Neglecting a child in Kenya is a crime which attracts up to a five-year jail term. “When we neglect children, we risk losing a whole generation that would have been productive in their later years and even look after their parents in old age,”  the children's officer said. “Lay a good foundation for your child by providing an education because neglecting a child by not giving them an education leads to a cycle of poverty that in turn affects the society and crime rates also soar.” The department arbitrates over cases brought to their office by making sure parents and caregivers adhere to the Children’s Act 2001 and the Constitution of Kenya Article 53. The article states that a child’s best interests are of paramount importance in every matter concerning the child. “In addition to basic nutrition, shelter and health care, parents should protect children from abuse, neglect, harmful cultural practices, all forms of violence and inhuman treatment,” Mburu said. The children’s officer said most cases of neglect in the county arise from irresponsibility as a result of being unprepared for parental duties which come with marriage for young parents and premarital affairs. “You find that people get married at a young age, others engage in extramarital affairs only to back out when children are sired from such unions," she said. "Notably, children come with a huge responsibility which they are unable to handle and they end up disintegrating and neglecting the children born from those unions.” Neglected children are emotionally disturbed which affects their school performance and some may even drop out of school to engage in crime, drug abuse or even laborious activities so as to meet their needs.  (edited by Amol Awuor)