Gor Mahia are hankering to plunge into the Kenyan Premier League action to charge for a historic 20th title. In an exclusive interview on Wednesday, skipper Philemon Otieno said the record champions are determined to redeem their battered image after missing out on the top-flight title for two consecutive seasons. “Our focus is to clinch the league when competition resumes,” vowed Otieno who inherited the armband from Kenyan international midfielder Kenneth Muguna, currently with Azam in the Tanzanian Premier League. K'Ogalo's four-year predominance at the summit of the log came to a dramatic end during the 2019 /2020 season when Tusker unexpectedly romped away to win the championship. The Ruaraka-based brewers then pulled off yet another breath-taking upset on close challengers Kakamega Homeboyz, to retain the title in May. This, after brushing aside a torrid start to the season that kicked off with a shock loss to traditional giants AFC Leopards. “The mood in the camp is encouraging and I believe we borrowed some crucial lessons from the just-concluded season which we can use to turn the tide in our favor come the new season,” Otieno quipped. The skipper extolled departed German gaffer Andreas Spiers for sprucing up the squad and firing them to a top-four finish after joining them in February. Otieno observed that the side experienced a hectic season after navigating the risky seas with budding stars recruited from the academy side. “Spiers did a marvelous job during his time. His departure won't distract us from our main objective, which is to win the title next season. We must remain true to our goal as the playing unit. The management made the decision to part ways with him and I trust they had a good reason,” Otieno said. “Our performance was satisfactory especially if you consider we finished in fourth position yet we had six inexperienced players who had just been drafted from the youth team.” “It was also a time we suffered a heavy blow after Fifa handed us a transfer ban. The Kamukunji High School alumnus said the Sh2 million they bagged from their Madaraka Day Cup victory against arch-rivals AFC Leopards on June 1, ameliorated K'Ogalo's financial constraints. “On behalf of the playing unit, I wish to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for the kind gesture. The money has eased off a great deal of pressure at the club.” Otieno weighed in on the prolonged impasse, pitting the country against the world football governing body, Fifa. “Football stakeholders should put their heads together to find a lasting solution to the ongoing crisis. We need to put our house in order and move forward as a nation. The standoff isn't good for the players,” Otieno said.