Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar has said the Kenya Kwanza Alliance, has no plans to rig the August 9 general election. Omar said they have faith in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to deliver a credible, free, and fair election. Omar was speaking at the United Democratic Alliance party headquarters in Nyali, Mombasa during a media briefing on Monday. He accused the government of using officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to harass and intimidate IEBC. “They had promised Raila Odinga ‘deep state’ and government machinery, but nothing seems to be coming out of their political strategy,” Omar said. Police on Sunday seized two servers from an office formerly owned by DP Ruto on the 9th floor of the Transnational Plaza building in Nairobi. According to police, they acted on a tip-off after Lamstar Technologies, who had been managing the office, started to move out Saturday evening, a situation that went on throughout the night. Omar however said that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila have already panicked knowing they were going to lose the election. “It is a weak strategy calculated for Raila to tell his supporters that the election has been rigged so that they can protest and seek coalition government thereafter. There will be no 'nusu mkate' government, you won’t get even a single slice.” He said the government and Azimio were trying to force the use of a manual register by attacking IEBC’s ICT infrastructure. Omar said once the commission allows the use of a manual register, then it will be easier for them to rig the election. He said they want to create a situation of unpreparedness so that Uhuru and his government in cohort with Azimio la Umoja coalition can say the election needs to be postponed. “We reject this and we know none will succeed. Uhuru will be illegally and unconstitutionally in office after his constitutional term expires,” Omar said. He called on the international community to sanction Uhuru and his cronies if he dares to remain in office longer saying he wants to subvert the election. Omar also said Raila had no agenda for the people and that’s why he opted out of the presidential debate slated for Tuesday evening. He said the Kenya Kwanza brigade had managed to smoke him (Raila) out because he had no agenda. He said Raila was full of riddles and fighting theoretical issues with non-tangible deliverables. “We have smoked him out, politics has moved from 'kitendawili' to politics of issues, but we still invite him to the debate,” Omar said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris