Usawa Kwa Wote party leader Mwangi Wa  Iria has joined the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance. Speaking to the media, the second-term governor revealed that Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga agreed to infuse his Usawa manifesto with the Azimio one. Together with Raila, Wa Iria said they will implement his one cow, one household program if Azimio forms the next government. "I told Raila that if we combined his Sh6,000 pledge and my cow programme then we will take Kenyan families above the poverty line. I told him that those have to be in our joint manifesto and we did a deal. He stated that will happen," he said. "Through that joined manifesto, Usawa Kwa Wote will support the candidature of Raila. My supporters will now rally behind Raila Odinga," Wa Iria added. The governor also highlighted that he will demand a cabinet post should Raila win the August 9 polls. "If I get to the Cabinet, I will implement all the programmes because I have the knowledge. The people of Murang'a should therefore rally behind me and we shall demand that Raila gives me a cabinet position." he noted. The Murang'a governor revealed that it was only Raila who reached out to him after 'injustice' was  done to him by the IEBC, locking him out from the presidential race. It was during the three hour talk they had, that he decided to support Raila and join the Azimio. "Raila Odinga engaged me in 3 hour discussion and we talked man to man with mzee. He was the only person who admitted to me that injustice was committed," Wa Iria added. Prior to the talks with Raila, the Murang'a Governor said he had decided to convert his party into a resistance movement. "As all of this happened, I made a decision that after this, I would turn my party into a resistance movement. I said it would be Usawa Resistance Movement because we are fighting injustice starting with electoral injustice, then economic, social and other forms of injustice." He explained that he had arrived at that decision after IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati disqualified him from the presidential race. The governor who is serving his second and final term had launched his presidential bid last year, before the IEBC disqualified him. He was however, denied clearance by the IEBC boss after he failed to submit his nomination papers on time. Wa Iria compared  Chebukati to King Herod of the Bible, claiming that he  can only postpone his presidential journey but not stop it. "He (Chebukati) went Herod on me and he will face what Herod faced in the bible," he said. The governor further said he will hold no grudge against the IEBC boss, suggesting that he will buy him a cup of tea after his tenure at electoral body is over. "Chebukati never told Kenyans why he disqualified me. He is on his way out and I will meet him as an old man with an old hanging coat and buy him tea." Without mentioning the coalition, the legislator claimed that there was one political camp which celebrated his woes. "A good number of leaders celebrated my exit and there is one camp which really celebrated. Their followers in my county have been holding prayer meetings to make sure that I'm not in the ballot," Wa Iria stated. He bashed the Kenya Kwanza faction in the Mt Kenya region led by Deputy President William Ruto's running mate, Rigathi Gachagua, claiming he was inconsiderate and did not have any regard for grassroots leaders. "It has reached a level where people think that they are the Kings of Murang'a. I am the de facto leader of Murang'a and I have been their leader for 10 years dealing with their problems every day and that is why they have been voting for me."