Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi might be thrown into political oblivion after the August 9 general election. He told the Star he is hoping to be appointed if Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga wins. Saisi is also banking on Senator George Khaniri’s win to be appointed as a CECM member in the county. Khaniri is seeking to unseat Governor Wilber Ottichilo. Initially, Saisi sought to unseat Governor Ottichilo. But his plan did not go through. He had vowed he would not deputise Ottichilo for a second time. "I can't deputise Ottichilo. I will face him at the ballot. I have enough experience to run this county. Those spreading rumours that ​I'm going to deputise other people are misinformed. My decision was made after long consultations,” Saisi said in a previous interview. After making the declaration of facing his boss on the ballot, he went ahead to prepare his political vehicle to unseat the governor. “I know the governor has money and elbowing him out of ODM won’t be possible so I will seek other alternatives to be on the ballot,” he said. Saisi formed his political outfit, The Equitable Party of Kenya (TEP-K), which he was to use to run for governor in August. However, the party was barred from participating in this year's general election by the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu. “The TEP Party doesn’t qualify to present candidates on the ballot in these 2022 general elections as it has not lasted for six months. All candidates on this party can’t be denied their political rights, they will be given a chance to vie but as independent candidates,” Nderitu said. She said the party will be free to participate in any election after August 9 polls as it will have matured enough. After his bid failed, Saisi opted to work with former Governor Moses Akaranga as his running mate to salvage his political career. Akaranga is the Progressive Party of Kenya leader. However, the plan to be Akaranga’s running mate hit a snag after the former governor picked Paul Mbuni as his running mate. Addressing the press after being cleared by the IEBC at Chavakali High School, the former governor said in politics all matrixes are employed. “I have picked Mbuni as my running mate, and after the August polls he will be my deputy. Treat the rest as propaganda,” Akaranga said. The mo​​ve left Saisi in political darkness, forcing him to drop back and join UDP party and support Senator Khaniri's bid to unseat Governor Ottichilo. Although Saisi is still in office as Ottichilo’s deputy, the two parted ways back in 2018. Edited by A.N