Swimming stakeholders have welcomed the world governing body, Fina decision to appoint a three-man stabilization committee to run the affairs of the sport in the country. Nairobi Swimming County secretary, Kenneth Karani, said the move is long overdue. “As coaches and stakeholders, we are delighted with the move. We have gone round and round in circles with no end in sight and it's about time Fina intervened and gave our swimmers a chance to compete at the world level," added Karani. He said the fraternity had lost hope in the leadership of  Sport Dispute Tribunal chair John Ohaga to deliver a credible process and end the wrangling in the sport. "People had given up after five years of back and forth. It's obvious that we are headed nowhere," noted Karani. A three-man committee including NOCK secretary-general, Francis Mutuku, South Africa's Jace Naidoo and Uganda's Benon Mwase is expected to help Kenya Swimming Federation prepare for the elections in the next six months. The committee will run day-to-day operations for swimming in the country until the end of December when polls will be held. Kenya was suspended indefinitely by Fina in April after failing to conduct elections in the last two years despite passing a new constitution last year. Fina executive director, Brent Nowicki, said they have been forced to come up with the Stabilization Committee following repeated failure by KSF to hold elections in accordance with Fina's rules. Nowicki said despite the suspension, KSF have been trying to use a back route to take part in aquatics activities of other members contrary to Fina rules. He cited a recent incident where a letter dated June 13, 2022, from KSF was sent to the Danish Swimming Union and Luxembourg Swimming Federation to feature in their respective national championships He ordered full and complete access to all offices operated by KSF. “We hope access to all files electronically or otherwise will be provided to the Stabilization Committee immediately,” added Nowicki