The ongoing transfer windows for both the men's and women's top-tier leagues will officially end on August 31, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee head of secretariat Lindah Oguttu has said. The revelations come amid heightened activities in the local transfer market that has seen clubs flex financial muscles in a bid to secure the signatures of the country's top cream. “The FKF  Transition Committee hereby notifies all FKF Premier League and the FKF Women's Premier League clubs for the 2022/2023 season and all the relevant stakeholders that the transfer window, which has been open since the end of the 2021/2022 season will close on August 31, 2022,” read a statement by Oguttu. Oguttu sought to remind the clubs that topflight action for the men's league will start on August 27 with the women's competition being rolled out a week later. “The 2022/2023 season as earlier communicated is scheduled to kick off on August 27 and September 3 for the KPL and KWPL respectively.” Oguttu said plans are at an advanced stage to establish a system that will be used to manage the fixtures and recruit players. “The Transition Committee is in the process of developing a Competitions Management System that will be used to manage the leagues in the coming seasons, including the registration of players.” The development comes at a time the TC is battling to fend off a fierce challenge from a section of stakeholders who are questioning the legality of its existence. Sports Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed, extended the mandate of the Committee for another two months on June 17. The decision, effected through a Gazette notice, was meant to avert a leadership crisis after the Retired Judge Aaron Ringera-led Transition Committee's tenure expired on June 14. Retired General Maurice Oyugi assumed the mantle as the new chairman, having previously deputised Ringera. Amina maintained the rest of the team that served on the previous committee and its secretariat. They include former Kenya Rugby Union chairman Mwangi Muthee, Ali Amour, Bobby Ogolla, former Harambee Starlets captain Neddy Atieno, Caesar Handa, Hassan Haji, and Dr. J.J Masiga, Michael Muchemi, Racheal Kamweru and Anthony Isayi. Journalist Linda Oguttu retained her role as head of the secretariat with Lorine Nerea and former Kenya Rugby player Edward Rombo as secretaries. Robin Toskin, coach Rishadi Shedu and Maxwell Wasike also found their way back to the secretariat. Amina's decision courted controversy given it came barely days after a group of stakeholders formed a 13-member committee to take charge of football activities at the expiry of the Transition Committee's term. The 13, who are football administrators drawn from FKF branches and leagues across the country, were selected during an FKF Special General Meeting held at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi. The meeting settled on Murang’a Seal boss Robert Macharia as chairman with Amos Otieno (Nairobi East) and Luthers Mokua (Nyamira) as vice-chairman and secretary-general respectively. 