Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said Kenya should stop blaming the president for high living costs. In an interview with Radio Citizen on Wednesday Oguna said the high cost of living is due to Ukraine - Russia conflict. "It is not fair to blame the whole situation on an individual, because it is not easy everywhere," he said. Oguna said the president has no control over the present situation. Oguna mentioned various other factors that contribute to the increasing cost of living such as the Covid-19 pandemic,  prolonged drought, Ukraine-Russia conflict and the continued depreciation of the Kenyan shilling against US dollar. The spokesperson added to his statement that the current situation is no different in neighbouring countries. "There is a neighbouring country where the president told citizens to expect a high cost of living and they understood, but here we are blaming Uhuru," Oguna added. “I have indeed talked to the President about these issues. I know he is facing a lot of challenges, now that the government is being pulled in two different directions; there is a faction of government that is opposing that very government’s agenda,” he said. He said the government should be given some time for the plans underway to start producing tangible results. Speaking on Radio Taifa on Tuesday, Oguna said the revealed government plans hoped to cushion Kenyans from the rising cost of living. "We are working to ensure the cost of living goes down by putting a waiver of import duty that applies to white non-GMO maize imported into the country on or before 6th August 2022," he said. He said the government released Sh5.5 billion to help farmers get grants to boost their agricultural production. "The government is considering long-term solutions to ensure self-sufficiency in local production firms such as Sunflower and Simsim," he added. Oguna said this will be achieved by increasing palm tree production in western and coastal counties, promoting the establishment of local oil processing plants.