Some 48 goats stolen from Olla Ginda in Saku constituency have been recovered and handed to the owners. This follows the Monday dialogue between Rendile and Borana elders. Of the 99 goats stolen during the Sunday evening raid, 48 were recovered in Hula Hula. It took the elders' efforts to identify where the animals were hidden. The Rendile elders had on Monday in a meeting with Borana elders asked for two days to search for the stolen animals and recovered the 48 goats. During the handover in Hula Hula, an elder from Rendile stressed on the need for dialogue in recovery of the remaining stolen animals. He said forceful seizure is ineffective and in most cases use of force by security teams delayed the repossession as the bandits go into hiding. "We started the search after footprints of the stolen animals were traced to the hidden area. We convened a series of meetings that made the recovery a success," the elder said. He said dialogue gives hope for recovery of the remaining animals and helps foster peaceful coexistence among the community. Qalla Baqaja, who received his animals, lauded the elders for their immediate intervention. He said he is optimistic the remaining 51 goats will be recovered and handed back to them. Saku MP Dido Ali Raso urged elders to take a leading role in peace building and the search for the remaining animals. He also urged youths to be at the forefront in peace building and refrain from crime involvement. The legislator said cattle rustling had brought pain and suffering to the residents. He said it pains when their only source of livelihood is stolen by bandits adding that action needs to be taken to end the menace. "Livestock is our main source of income and raids by bandits are not only inhumane but heinous," Raso said. The MP said the government needs to be proactive when dealing with matters of animal banditry and urged the state to curb rustling for cohesion and peaceful coexistence. He said rampant cases of cattle rustling have made the area lag behind in terms of development. Raso said the government should deal with the suspected raiders and criminals terrorising the community so that peace can be achieved. Marsabit Central MCA Hassan Wako Jarso also lauded the elders on their recovery efforts. He said the recovery is a sign of a truce and good will between the two communities. Jarso further urged the elders to continue searching the remaining animals. He said their is need for peaceful coexistence and asked the state to continue spearheading the peace process for cooperation among all tribes. The legislator said banditry is a crime similar to robbery as the raiders kill the herders in order to successfully take the animals. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)