Machakos governor candidate Wavinya Ndeti's bid got a boost after one of her competitors' supporters defected to her camp. Ndeti's running mate Francis Mwangangi received Empowerment Liberation leader Rose Mulwa's supporters at Kivaa in Masinga subcounty on Sunday. The defectors were led by their chairman Musau Kilonzo, who said the more than 200 people hailed from Mwala, Yatta and Masinga subcounties in Machakos. Kilonzo said their defections were prompted by the fact that Ndeti has the best manifesto among all the gubernatorial candidates. Other candidates are CCU leader Nzioka Waita, Machakos deputy governor Francis Maliti and UDA national chairman Johnson Muthama. Kilonzo said their defections aim to stabilise Wiper in solidarity with the Ukambani political kingpin, Kalonzo Musyoka. "As supporters of Mulwa, we are inviting others to join us in Wiper. It's the party that will bring victory to Machakos, since it's the most popular in Ukambani. "Ndeti has the best manifesto, which if implemented will transform Machakos county and improve livelihoods. I call on Maliti and Muthama supporters to ditch the two and join us in supporting Ndeti and Wiper," he said. The defectors said Machakos residents should vote for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga as the fifth president, but elect Wiper candidates in all the other seats. "Those supporting candidates other than those contesting on Wiper tickets shouldn't waste their time in other parties. They should support Ndeti alongside other Wiper candidates, " Kilonzo said. Mwangangi thanked the defectors for joining their camp. He said Kilonzo is a renowned leader not only in Masinga but the entire Ukambani. "I urge all those in Machakos, Makueni and Kitui counties to support Wiper. Our Machakos governor is Ndeti and she will emerge victorious on August 9," Mwangangi said. "Let's all return to Wiper so that we unite not only the Kamba community, but all Kenyans living in Ukambani," he said. Mwangangi said the latest opinion polls showed that Ndeti's popularity had risen to more than 70 per cent against her opponents, whose manifestos are full of lies. The former Yatta MP further called for respect among all politicians seeking various positions in Machakos county. "We need unity. We need respect among us. Let's all support Wiper and move forward together," Mwangangi said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)