Lt Col Michael Mulwa of the Kenya Airforce, Eastleigh Airbase, produced a resplendent performance to clinch the 12th leg of the Safaricom Golf Series at the Kenya Airforce Golf Club on Sunday. Playing off handicap 27, Mulwa carded 18 points in the front nine before returning 25 points in the back nine courtesy of a birdie at hole 17. The performance fired him past a competitive field of 127 participants,  effectively earning him the overall title of the tournament. "This is my first time participating in such a big tournament. Today's win is a great honour and a proud moment in my golfing career since I started playing golf one year ago. The challenging places were the red soils and the greens, but I am glad I managed to get good scores,” said Col Mulwa after the feat. “The win has given me much confidence, and I now need to start training regularly as I prepare to face other winners in the finals," he added. The victory earned Col Mulwa a direct slot in the series' grand finale primed for August at Vipingo. The corporate tournament also ran alongside the Golf Outreach dubbed 'Golf Mtaani' held at MCEDO Beijing Grounds in Mathare Constituency, with over 100 young people getting an opportunity to learn the golfing fundamentals from seasoned professionals. Major Elvis Murunga claimed the men's category with 42 points after posting 20 points in the front nine and 22 points in the back nine to beat his closest challenger J.M Kamande on three points difference. Playing off handicap 36, Grace Naiserian carded a round of 41 points, four better than her club-mate Christine Kamais to claim the ladies' title. Fredrick Wagura was crowned the guest winner after posting 40 points to lead the guest participants category. Elsewhere, playing off handicap 20, Martin Mabuya continued with his stunning performance to win the staff top prize after closing his round with 34 points courtesy of a front nine score of 13 points and back nine scores of 21 points. In the longest drive contest, James Mwangi claimed the honours among the men, while Margaret Kungu claimed the win among the ladies. Meanwhile, Duncan Kamau Mburu was the winner in the nearest-to-the-pin contest. The Kenya Airforce tournament attracted 90 budding golfers who took part in the juniors' tournament today on Sunday. With only two legs remaining before the grand finale on August 6 in Vipingo, the tour has so far attracted close to 6,000 golfers who have taken part in the various tournaments, junior clinics and outreach programmes. The next leg of the tour is scheduled for 23rd July at Vet Lab Golf Club.