Bomet governor Prof Hillary Barchok has told Azimio La Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga to stop issuing demands to Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission (IEBC). Barchok said that the opposition leader has sensed defeat in the forthcoming election and they want to use every issue as a way to discredit the election. He made the remarks after he opened the Food and Beverages Department at Emkwen Vocational Training Centre, Silibwet in Bomet Central Sub-county. The block was financed by the County Government of Bomet. The governor was accompanied by County First Lady Selina Barchok, Deputy Governor Shadrack Rotich, UDA nominees, Hillary Sigey (Senate), Linet Chepkorir Toto (Women Rep), Richard Kilel (Bomet Central MP), MCAs  Robert Lang'at Chesoni (Mutarakwa), Aaron Kirui Neilaat (Silibwet Township), Benard Ng'etich Hustler (Singorwet), Kipng'eno Kirui Arwet (Ndarawetta) and Leonard Rotich the Teacher (Chesoen). The county boss told Raila to stop intimidating IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and allow the electoral body to conduct free, fair and transparent polls. “Raila and his team should respect independent body like IEBC which has been mandated to conduct elections, they stop issuing conditions every time,” said Barchok. He added said if they feel unsatisfied with the preparedness of the elections, they should leave the stage and allow those who are ready to participate in the next month’s polls. The county boss wondered why the opposition leader and his troops are always opposing issues including the recently concluded presidential debate. “It seems the group lacks agenda and wants to create confusion in a bid to win sympathy votes but Kenyans are now wiser and they have realized their intended plans,” said the governor. On Wednesday, Raila's Azimio raised questions on the printing of Form 34 A and 34 B by a Greek firm Inform Lykos. In a letter signed by Azimio chief legal adviser Paul Mwangi, Raila said his team noted “disturbing issues” after it emerged the IEBC printed two books of Form 34As. On his part, Sigey called on Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and vote for UDA presidential flagbearer William Ruto in the polls. While drumming up for the six-piece voting pattern, Sigei said the only person who has solutions for this country is the DP and deserves a chance to be the fifth president of this country.