Kenya Prisons' coach David Lung'aho believes his charges can still do well in the playoffs despite their 3-0 loss to perennial rivals, General Service Unit on Sunday as the regular season came to a close. Lung'aho termed the loss disastrous and hopes his charges can bring out their quality in the playoffs set to be held in the next two weeks. The warders were the better side in the first set but the changes made with the game tied at 20-20  proved counterproductive. Losing the first set exposed Prisons flaws in the reception and blocking department. The team also lost the structure of the play and the attack looked toothless.  Opposite player Elphas Makuto cut a frustrated figure with little service to unlock his explosive game. The introduction of setter Daniel Kiptoo for the regular Kelvin Maiyo proved to be the last straw that broke the camel's back. "We were not just ourselves and that is not the performance we had hoped for," Lung'aho stated. He added: "That won't happen again for sure. We dropped our levels and I was responsible for the loss because the substitutions failed to provide the much-needed spark. This time around, attacker Michael Chemos was off and so was Kiptoo, who happens to be the former's preference. The substitution of Maiyo was Prisons' biggest undoing as GSU ran riot. Lung'aho has promised to put his act together as he seeks to find a winning formula ahead of the Playoffs, where they are pitted against Kenya Ports Authority. "We are analysing the videos to see where we faltered. With the quality that we have, I know we have what it takes to beat any team." GSU lead the standings with 40 points same as KPA but the paramilitary side have a better win ratio. Fourth-placed Trail Blazers have an outside chance against GSU in the playoffs, which the stakeholders want them  held at the spacious Kasarani Indoor Arena rather than Nyayo Gymnasium. The Nyayo gymnasium is used during the weekends for basketball league matches. Kenya Defence Forces (KDF), Equity and Kenya Forest Service are ranked fifth, sixth and seventh respectively. Tail-enders Central Prisons managed zero points. The team dished out most walkovers after failing to honour their matches.