Newly crowned World women’s 1500m champion Faith Kipyegon has disclosed how she surmounted immense pressure on her way to the momentous fourth major world title. The 28-year-old mother of one, put in a scintillating show at Oregon22 in Eugene to fire past a competitive field, clocking an impressive 3:52.96 on her way to retaining the world title she first bagged in 2017. Kipyegon admitted she headed into Tuesday's race inspired by the expectations of a dotting nation hankering for a gold medal that had proved elusive before her landmark victory at the Hayward Field track. “I was facing a lot of pressure. Everybody was expecting something special from me. Everybody was like, ‘Faith, we believe in Faith,’ so it was real pressure. But I managed it, ” Kipyegon said. It was her second-fastest time on US soil following the 3:52.59 she recorded at the Prefontaine Classic in late May. “I'm so grateful. I'm so happy I've won this race here in Oregon and it was my target to win. I knew was the best and I was looking forward to defending my title from 2017,” Kipyegon said. She, however, had to fend off a blistering challenge from World indoor champion Gudaf Tsegay of Ethiopia who was similarly in a class of her own. “I knew it was not going to be easy with the three Ethiopians in the race, and I knew they were planning something special. “But I was prepared, and I knew I was strong. I knew that if the course record was to be broken then I had to be the one doing it,” she said. Kipyegon extolled the Tsegay for putting up a gallant fight to give her a run for her money. “To say the truth I knew this race was going to be fast. Tsegay doesn't know how to run at the back. She is a front runner and I knew she was going to push the race in a bid to win the gold medal. I thank God I managed to bring the medal back home,” Kipyegon added. And after a neck and neck race that saw Tsegay clinging by her side for the better part of the abrasive duel, Kipyegon eventually set herself loose in the last 300 meters to storm to the gold podium. “I tried many times to overtake her. She tried to block me and it wasn't easy.” Tsegay — the 2019 bronze medallist in Doha — reluctantly accepted the silver after clocking 3:54.52 with Great Britain’s Laura Muir, 29, wrapping up a podium finish in 3:55.28. Kipyegon was full of flowery words for her fans back home, saying they have stood with her in her entire stellar journey. “Thank you for the support, thank you for believing in me, and thanks for always urging me on.” Among her dotting fans is President Uhuru Kenyatta who came out to celebrate her victory on Tuesday. Uhuru described Kipyegon as the world's greatest 1,500m female athlete. Kipyegon said she will skip the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games and focus on preparing for the Diamond League meeting in Monaco. She promised to work toward lowering her personal best in Monaco. “I can't talk about it right now. Let me focus on myself and see what is possible. I will be trying my best to lower my personal best and to run a good race.” She said she would spend time with her daughter whom she said meant everything to her.    