Gusii region professionals and former leaders have now said they are fully behind Azimio candidate Raila Odinga's presidency. Leaders drawn from both Kisii and Nyamira counties on Saturday made a declaration that they will campaign for the ODM leader and his running mate Martha Karua until the duo makes it to State House. They made the declaration in Kisii county. They were led by West Mugirango MP hopeful Stephen Mogaka, city lawyer Danstan Omari, former Kisii and Nyamira town councils’ chairmen, and former councillors. Theirs, they said is to follow the direction given by President Uhuru Kenyatta who is also supporting Raila’s presidency hence as a region, they decided to urge the residents to rally behind the Azimio candidate. “As a region we are behind Raila's Presidency since Uhuru has also given the direction which we cannot ignore. We will support him to the end since he has our interests at heart as a region,” Mogaka said. The leaders said they are grateful that the President made substantive appointments from the region during his tenure and that is what they want Raila to do when he takes over power during the August general election. “We have a number of appointments as a region in the government, and that is what we want to maintain when Raila takes over the next government. That is why we are backing his presidency because we know we have a stake as a region,” he added. Mogaka is vying for the seat on a Jubilee ticket, where he has assured the electorates of his dedication to serve, exuding confidence that he will be part of the government in place after the August polls. “It is very difficult for someone who is a leader and is not supporting the government in place to get development in his region. I assure my supporters that since I will be in the government side, more goodies will be assured,” Mogaka said. He said the assurance from the Azimio La Umoja presidential candidate to work with the region when he takes over as president makes them confident of getting goodies from the government to come in terms of appointments and various slots from government. “Raila promised to work with the Interior boss Fred Matiang’i in his government and that is one reason we want to support him so that we can get more slots from the government when he takes over as President,” Mogaka said. During his recent visit to the region, the Azimio boss said the region has been supporting his presidential bid throughout and will work with leaders from the region including having Matiang’i in his government when he takes over as president. Former councillors and council chairmen said as a region, there is every reason to rally behind Raila's presidency due to the fact that he has declared to work with the leaders from the region. “We are supporting Raila since we know what he promised us as a region, we have confidence that he will work with our people as he has been promising in his campaigns in the region. We have every reason to support him so that if he fails us, we can be able to put him to task,” Jane Mokaya,  a former councillor, said. 