National walk champion Margaret Gati has vowed to improve on her eighth-place finish at the 2021 World Under-20 Championships when this year's edition goes down in Cali, Colombia early next month. Gati proved her agility while winning the Athletics Kenya World Under 20 trials in 49:14.8 at the Nyayo Stadium over the weekend. Last year, Gati clocked 49:15.12 on home soil and feels she has improved over time as she targets a podium finish in South America. "I must go back to the drawing board and intensify my training if I am to medal in Colombia," said Gati, who has been training in Nandi County under national U20 head coach Robert Ngisirei. "My switch from Kisii to Nandi has been of great impact. Nandi is a high-altitude area and training from there has taught me the art of endurance." The 19-year-old also acknowledged Ngisirei's efforts in her win on Saturday, where she obliterated the field to finish more than three minutes ahead of her closest challenger, Jacinta Muteu (53:31.7). "My coach has been my greatest support system through his advice and unique training tactics. Saturday's race was not easy because of the bad weather but I thank God that I finished the race successfully," said Gati. The Form Three student at Cheptonon Secondary School expressed her excitement after making Team Kenya for the second time in a row. "This is my second time being selected for the national team and I am very happy. I want to go to Colombia, perform well and come back with a medal," Gati said. Gati looks up to the six-time African and national walk champion, Grace Wanjiru of the Kenya Defence Forces and believes one day she will reign over the walk race. "Grace inspires me a lot and I would like to be known worldwide like her. She set the pace for me and I believe I will be able to follow in her footsteps and, hopefully, break her records," Gati concluded. The World Under 20 Championships are set for August 1-6, where Kenya will be seeking to defend the title they won at home during the previous edition. Meanwhile, Team Kenya are set to start a residential training camp in Nairobi this week in preparation for the global showpiece, Athletics Kenya Youth Sub Committee Secretary Joseph Ilovi revealed on Tuesday.