Presidential aspirant Reuben Kigame suffered a setback after the Appeal Court suspended the decision directing the IEBC to consider his papers. The suspension followed the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission's appeal of the High Court ruling in Kigame's favour. IEBC argued the order would have serious repercussions on the forthcoming general election, including postponing it if his name is to be included on the ballot. Justices Wanjiru Karanja, Francis Tuyiott and Hellen Omondi allowed the application by the electoral commission to stay the judgment, pending the hearing of the case. “The appellant to serve the respondents, the respondent shall serve before Sunday. In the meantime, stay of execution of the High Court judgment,” the court ruled. Lawyer John Khaminwa for Kigame had told the court his client had been given an appointment by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati at 11am on Thursday. He wanted the court to await the outcome of the meeting. Lawyer Eric Gumbo for IEBC, however, opposed the application. He said the proceedings are in relation to a judgment and there is no reason whatsoever they should wait for the outcome of the meeting. He accused Khaminwa of derailing the meeting. Khaminwa also said he had not been served with the appeal documents but Gumbo said they had served the appeal to him. The case will be heard on Monday next week at noon. The IEBC's Dispute Resolution Committee disqualified Kigame from contesting in the election on grounds he presented fewer than 2,000 voters from each of a majority of the counties to back his bid. The IEBC has argued the High Court ruling is time-barred as the commission operates within strict guidelines. In a statement, Chebukati said the range of steps and processes required to give effect to the judgment may severely jeopardise holding the presidential election on August 9, only 1 days from Friday. He said the IEBC is committed to inclusivity of marginalised groups, including persons with disabilities. the chairman said, however, relief granted to any special category of Kenyans should be governed and provided for within the Constitution, election laws and electoral timelines. On Monday, the High Court directed the IEBC to consider Kigame's papers for clearance to contest the presidency. In the judgment delivered by Justice Anthony Mrima, the court said Kigame demonstrated exemplary effort in complying with the requirements. He said the list of supporters he presented would suffice. But the electoral agency appealed the decision on Wednesday citing far-reaching implications on a number of processes and steps already taken. (Edited by V. Graham)