UDA Westlands MP seat candidate Nelson Havi has been crowned Luhya elder and chief. He now joins a list of top influential Luhya leaders who have dominated Kenya's political space for decades. Speaking about the coronation on Saturday at a hotel in Nairobi, Havi said the new crown comes with the daunting task of leading a huge constituency beyond his tribal origin. "It is a ceremony that marks the beginning of greater responsibilities  on my part; responsibilities which will require that I serve not only the people of Western Kenya; not just the people of Maragoli from whom I trace  my ancestry; but the people of Westlands  and the people of Kenya." Elders led by Kefa Sambaye Mwangale coronated the former LSK boss. Mwangale led a team of his counterparts from various subtribes that make up the Luhya nation. They include the Nyore, Kisa, Maragoli, Tiriki, Isukha, Idakho, Wanga, Tachoni, Bukusu, Nyala, Samia, Khayo, Marachi, Kabras, Tsotso and Songa. Mwangale implored Havi to fight for the Luhya nation's interest and ensure the province receives its fair share of the national cake. He asked the Former LSK boss to join hands with like-minded leaders and ensure the Luhya nation is united. Havi exuded confidence that he will steer the Luhya nation towards prosperity saying he will play a national role as opposed to being a tribal chief. "I want to emphasize this: I do not speak to you because I want to be a tribal chief, not at all.  I am already a national leader having served as the 49th President of the Law Society of Kenya," he said. The coronation is likely to stir a controversy considering many Luhya leaders claim to be in charge of the tribe. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya Counterpart Moses Wetangula have labelled themselves as the two supreme leaders in Western Kenya. On December 31, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya was crowned the Luhya community leader during the Bukhungu II declaration. The elders tasked Oparanya to negotiate on behalf of the community at the National level. The coronation however was dismissed by Mudavadi and Wetangula who boycotted the meeting. With his entry into the leadership matrix, Havi has called for the need to have a single leader who will steer the community to the presidency. The former LSK boss asked the community to learn from the Mt Kenya region that has for years supported one of their own for the top seat. "I want to tell you this, my brothers and sisters, only one amongst us will be the one to serve. Others must help him or her get to the seat of service. Why don't we make it easier for him or her to serve as they do our friends from Mt Kenya," he said. The former LSK boss also used the function to rally the people of Westlands to back his bid saying he is ready to deliver development. Havi pledged to ensure the requisite legislation is in place to enhance service delivery not to only the people of Westlands but Kenyans at large.