Residents of Watiti, Dhirr Diima and Dabel in Moyale have commended Governor Mohamud Ali's administration for infrastructure development and improving the welfare of the people. They described the projects as symbolic and strategic. Youth leader Hassan Bidu said the governor's commitment had improved the lives of the people urging him to sustain the momentum and accelerate the pace of good governance. He said Mohamud has achieved a lot despite the delay in the disbursement of funds from the national government. Bidu said he had also involved people in the decision-making process of his administration by seeking their input in the year's budget preparation and plans. “Our people have benefitted from this administration in terms of infrastructure development which is a key driver for progress and enabler for productivity and sustainable growth,” Bidu said. He said, he was impressed with the achievement in his first term and called on the people to re-elect him. Bidu hailed Mohamud scholarship programme that gave students from poor family backgrounds access to education which would have been impossible due to their financial background. Community elder Hassan Guyo urged the residents to support and vote for Mohamud. Guyo said under his leadership the county has accelerated into social-economic development describing the governor as a dedicated leader who ensured speedy and effective delivery of the service to the residents. He warned residents not to allow themselves to be divided along tribal and ethnic lines saying tribalism is a disease that has the potential to disrupt peace-building efforts. Guyo called on voters to maintain peace during the election. Sakuye elder in Dabel Ali Abdi said Mohamud has upgraded their health centre to a modern standard saying massive records are enormous in the region. He commended Mohamud for being a humane leader who has empathy for the citizens and genuinely works for the welfare of everyone. Addressing his supporters at different centres in Golbo,  Mohamud said his administration has managed to expand the road network. He said he invested massively in health infrastructure that reduces the maternal death rate in the county. The county boss said he also focused on water scarcity by drilling boreholes at strategic areas where 150 Earth pans currently serving the residents across the county. He said the government's distribution of plastic water tanks to the residents was a step in tackling water shortages. He urged residents to embrace peace and said a peaceful environment is critical to the county's development. He asked young people to shun any politicians who want them to engage in nefarious activities that would threaten the peace during the electioneering period. He lauded elders' contributions to reconciliation and said they made it possible to bring sustainable peace and stability within Moyale by bringing together a warring community. Marsabit deputy governor Solomon Gubo asked residents to embrace the fordable alliance saying it is the only way to bring the community together. He commended Mohamud for equal distribution of ward development funds in all the 20 wards. He called on residents to make a wise decision and not to fall prey to political brokers, asking them to support and vote for Mohamud to complete the projects he initiated and initiate new ones. Senator Godana Hargura asked the electorate to give Mohamud another chance saying his administration has improved all sectors Woman Representative candidate Nasra Ibrahim urged residents to exercise sobriety and involve in promoting peace and unity during the election period. She urged youths to reject leaders who misuse them for their political gains saying Mohamud's administration has achieved a lot of developments in various sectors. She asked residents to keep off unproductive and self-centred leaders who have no development agenda and instead associate with leaders who are visionary and willing to empower them. Mohamud received supporters from his opponents after a lengthy discussion with them, promising to bring them on board in his development activities if he wins.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris