An incident a fortnight ago in which a female motorist was confronted by a group of thugs at her home must have left even the most emotionless of us with chills down our spines. One can only imagine the helplessness she felt as these beasts of men tried to force her out of her car, using a metallic bar to break the window on the driver's side and to open the door. If there is anything we have learnt from her unfortunate episode, it is that security begins with us. As much as the police and all other security apparatus exist to make us secure, we cannot expect them to be everywhere to keep us safe. As a car owner, you will always remain a target for criminals who may be looking for a suitable getaway car for their escapades or just to make quick bucks by selling your automobile on the black market. Fortunately, there are modern technologies or security features you can invest in to minimise your chances of falling prey to such incidences. These features may deter potential criminals from attacking by sending out an SOS to get you the assistance you require immediately in such situations. One of these easy-find features is the enhanced glazing protection, which is a special, laminated glass that makes it difficult for thieves to break into your vehicle. Although not as impenetrable as bullet proof glass, with EPG, a carjacker will have to spend more time than usual breaking through the window. From his or her viewpoint, it would be much better aborting such a mission rather than be caught. You can also fit your car with an immobiliser, which is a technology that effectively renders your car as dead as a dodo in case of a carjacking. It disables all the vehicle's system, causing it to stall until the immobiliser is deactivated. When combined with a tracking system, it ensures your vehicle can be located immediately. Dashcams are, perhaps, the most common security feature for many car owners in the country. They can help monitor your vehicle when parked in an insecure area and warn you beforehand of any suspicious activity around your car. Moreover, in the event of a carjacking, they can help record evidence of the same and help locate your vehicle as soon as possible thanks to connection to a GPS tracker. One of the characteristics of grand theft auto in Nairobi is that of small accessories that are in high demand within the automobile market. These include wheel nuts and bolts, side mirrors and headlights. A wheel locking system would help guard against theft of your nuts and bolts by alerting you when  someone is tampering with your wheels or rims. It also essentially makes it difficult for anyone to remove the wheels of your vehicle. Granted, we can never be free of criminals and carjackers who are being born everyday. However, it behoves every car owner to take every necessary measure to secure his or her safety.