The threats and demands by the Azimio la Umoja on the IEBC barely a month to the general election are uncalled for. Some of the demands are geared towards causing political confusion and sabotage as voters prepare to take part in the polls and elect leaders of their choice for the sake of the future of the country. In what seems to be uncoordinated commands, each of the Azimio la Umoja top leaders has been issuing ultimatums to the electoral commission on what should be done ahead of the elections, yet it’s an independent institutions that knows its duty. It would appear that Azimio la Umoja leaders have sensed defeat and are now looking for excuses to have the August elections postponed. It should be clear that the majority of Kenyans are fed up with political bickering and want to sort out issues that can affect their economic status. It is evidently clear that most of the conditions set by Azimio la Umoja leaders have financial, social and political implications on the IEBC, which has used the resources allocated in preparations for the elections. It’s high time the Azimio la Umoja team applies democratic and constitutional approaches in their demands, which do not necessarily hurt the economy and more so take into consideration the welfare of most Kenyans. Politics is no longer a priority Kenyans but how they can fight the vicious circle of poverty brought about by turf economic times that is being witnessed. It’s time Azimio la Umoja One Kenya comes out clear on its agenda instead of subjecting Kenyans to unnecessary drama by giving demands and conditions in its quest for power. Kenyans do not want a repeat of what happened in the country following the contested 2007 elections that almost teared the nation apart. Leaders from both sides of the political divide should, therefore, weigh their demands ahead of the election so that voters participate in their democratic right peacefully. The IEBC should be given ample time and space to ensure free and credible elections are held come August 9 because politicizing its work is recipe for chaos. Joel Onyango- Kericho