Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali and Muslim clerics have called for restraint and peaceful coexistence ahead of the August poll. The leaders spoke during Eid-ul Adha celebrations led by chief kadhi Ibrahim Tullu at Moi Girls Marsabit on Saturday. Ali urged residents to make sacrifices to strengthen the unity, peaceful coexistence and cohesiveness of the county for a happy society where all people would be their brother's keepers. "We must make sacrifices to strengthen our collective endeavor for the attainment and sustenance of a harmonious, peaceful and cohesive society. "We must make sacrifices to uphold the ties that bind the Muslim to other religions," he said. The governor urged politicians to be peace ambassadors rather than people who fan the embers of disunity. He also urged electorate to avoid the temptation of being used as agents of violence during electioneering period, by politicians bent on getting to office at all costs. "It is important that we become more tolerant as politicians and learn to embrace the spirit of brotherhood," Ali said. The governor urged Muslim faithfuls to pray for continued peace and tranquility by rededicated themselves to the worship of Allah and praying for the less fortunate people in the county. He said Muslim faithfuls should continue to pray for peace and love and urged the clerics to lead in uniting residents. "Let us all continue to preach the message of peace and unity and embrace it at all times. Peace is priceless and non-negotiable," Ali said. Tullu urged residents to elect leaders with integrity, who care for their wellbeing. He said the right to vote should not be exercised in the wrong manner by electing leaders on the basis of tribe. The cleric further urged residents to give charitable offering to the less fortunate and challenged politicians to shun violence. He said leaders should desist from bickering and politics of hatred that would cause disunity. Marsabit Sheikh Mohammed Galgallo said acts of sacrifice during the Eid festival symbolise the willingness to give up on things, which faithfuls hold in higher esteem for the sake of others. He said the celebration of Eid-ul Adha by Muslims signifies total submission and obedience to Allah, culminating in the sacrifice of animals as charitable donations. Sheikh Omar Sharrif Hassan asked Muslims to make sacrifices and share with neighbours and the poor in the spirit of brotherhood. "Let us remember the less fortunate in the society as we celebrate Eid-ul Adha. We should show love to the poor. Such gestures of giving will improve their living standards," he said. Hassan further urged residents to preach peace and tranquility during this electioneering period. He challenged candidates to uphold peace during their campaigns saying it is vital for the people to vote in a peaceful environment. "The era of causing chaos and mayhem before and after polls is gone and such incidences must be condemned," Hassan said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)