Security preparations for the forthcoming general election in Marsabit county, where a military operation is active, are complete. Eastern regional commissioner Evans Achoki said the government would be deploying adequate security personnel to help in securing voting materials and to man polling stations during the exercise. Achoki told the press after chairing the county security committee meeting at the ACK conference hall that the Interior ministry is ready to assist the IEBC to conduct the polls without any hitches. The administrator, who was accompanied by the GSU commandant Douglas Kanja and the regional security team, assured wananchi in the county that security has been restored not only to make them secure but give them an enabling environment to vote. Achoki said Operation Rejesha Amani Marsabit which started three months ago has managed to recover 320 illegal guns and more than 2,500 bullets. The commissioner said new strategies are being planned to eliminate isolated cases of cattle rustling which have continued to be witnessed in the region despite a dusk to dawn curfew. Achoki appealed to the residents to continue supporting the initiative (security operation), saying that nobody has a reason to remain holding an illegal firearm now that the government has restored security in the county. “We have also intensified peace building efforts for harmonious coexistence among communities in this county," he said. "I would urge those still in possession of unlicensed firearms to surrender them to the authorities without delay.” Concerning town security, the commissioner asked traders to install cameras in buildings to assist in fighting crime. At the same time, the GSU commandant Douglas Kanja expressed satisfaction on the progress so far made in curbing insecurity in Marsabit county, adding that new approaches were being worked out to tame livestock theft. The commandant said the current security arrangements would be maintained until all illegal firearms in wrong hands are mopped up. Kanja also appealed to residents to assist in the recovery of the weapons. He expressed confidence that the election would be conducted in a secure and peaceful environment.  (edited by Amol Awuor)