The government has denied claims that it is buying national identity cards from its citizens with an aim to sabotage the upcoming polls. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho termed such claims as unfortunate and unfounded, and which should not be perpetuated by any right thinking individual. Speaking on Saturday, the PS said, despite this being a political season characterised by propaganda and malice, such claims are serious and uncalled for. Kibicho further called on Kenyans to vote in credible leaders who have their interests at heart, as well as maintain peace during the election. “Why would we buy IDs from Kenyans in order to sabotage such polls? We know there is a lot of ongoing political craziness where some politicians are sensing defeat and as such have resorted in seeking sympathy by way of spreading lies,” he said. His sentiments come days after some Kenya Kwanza-allied leaders raised concerns over the government allegedly using local administrators to conduct ID mop up exercise from voters in exchange of money. Late last week, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission also raised an alarm over alleged cases of people buying national IDs from voters. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said they had since received some intelligence report over how a group of people were transversing the country while committing the electoral offence. The PS was speaking in Ndia, Kirinyaga county, during the season two finals of the Karanja Kibicho tournament which has been ongoing for the the last six months. More than 400 teams participated in the match, with 40 being women teams. He said the tournament was created to harness sporting talent from youths so as to enable them realise their full potential. Kagio United emerged victorious and managed to bag the coveted trophy and a cash prize of half a million shillings while the women’s team, Kiaga Starlets, were awarded a trophy and a cash prize of Sh200,000. Kibicho said the football programme would still go on even after the political season. “There is a tendency that if one starts such a worthy course, it is always tied to politics. This programme is not related to politics and will still continue even after the political season because our goal is to empower our youths,” the PS said. Earlier in the year, about 100 referees underwent professional training by the Football Kenya Federation courtesy of Kibicho where more than 90 managed to graduate. The PS also officially launched the Kirinyaga United Football Club which will represent the county on football matters. He said the team would officially be registered with the government this week to enable its continuity. Kibicho said the players would be remunerated and their welfare taken care of as the team grows stronger into the future. Leaders present hailed the PS for giving back to the community through the life-changing programme. The leaders, among them, Senator Charles Kibiru, Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira, his Kirinyaga Central counterpart Munene Wambugu, former senator Daniel Karaba and woman representative candidate Rose Wachira pledged to continue supporting the football clubs.  (edited by Amol Awuor)