Trans nzoia  County  Women representative Janet Nangabo has said the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) owes Kenyans an explanation for failing to tame hate speech promoters. She said utterances by Deputy President William Ruto during a rally in  Kitalale in Trans Nzoia have put the NCIC boss Samuel Kobia and other commissioners on spot. Ruto had labelled Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa a woman, sparking criticism. "The Kenyan constitution is clearly spelt that no one apart from the President of this country is above the law. NCIC must move faster and question each person spewing hate without regard to his or her position in society," she said. She said the utterances against Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa suggested a serious lack of commitment on the side of the Commission to have hate speech tamed. Nangabo spoke in Kitale on Friday during a meeting with the business community, elders and professionals who said they would rally behind her re-election come August 9. "It’s surprising that even a mad person on the streets can point out the most consistent hate speech through utterances made by political elites in this country but NCIC has remained mum as if nothing was happening," she said. She said that NCIC which is heavily funded by the taxpayer must admit that expectations of Wanjiku had not been met. The legislator added that the Commission’s failure to secure convictions of those fueling hate language has disappointed Wananchi. Endebes Parliamentary Candidate Pius Gumo cited some leaders from the north rift for coming to Trans Nzoia to abuse area leaders; a matter he said demonstrates open contempt for the Commission. He urged area residents to ignore the utterances made by Ruto and coexist peacefully as brothers and sisters. "The recent utterances made by a senior politician in this country should not bring conflict among residents of this county because we are a small Kenya," he said. He further said any leader out to create disharmony between various communities residing in Trans Nzoia should not be re-elected to office come August 9. Youth leaders Daniel Sapiri and David Simiyu warned politicians from the North Rift against destabilizing Peace in Trans Nzoia through careless talk. "Trans Nzoia is a cosmopolitan County where all Kenyans have been coexisting peacefully until recently when some politicians started holding night meetings with their communities," said Simiyu. Sapiri said that all politicians who are polarizing the County through reckless statements be made to account for their actions since no one was above the law.