Former Cabinet Secretary and Turkana Jubilee Gubernatorial Candidate John Munyes has pledged to address the hunger crisis in Turkana if elected as Governor. Munyes resigned in February as Cabinet Secretary for Petroleum and Mining to seek the top county seat. He said his administration will prioritise addressing the hunger crisis which is a thorn in the flesh of the Turkana people in 100 days once elected as Turkana Governor. Munyes spoke on Thursday in Lodwar during the launch of his manifesto. “In 100 days, I want to address the issue of food security, I will look into the issue of water scarcity and deliver water to our people and livestock. I will open up irrigation schemes to strengthen the agriculture sector and grow food that will address hunger in the entire Turkana County,” he said. Munyes said Turkana County has received billions of shillings for development but the money has done little to improve the livelihoods, reduce poverty and hunger. Turkana is Kenya's second-largest county that receives the largest share of revenue allocation after Nairobi County. It's also consistently ranked the poorest and most unequal county by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the University of Nairobi in the report 'Inequality Trends and Diagnostics 2020' “Sh12billion that Turkana receives, is not a drop in the ocean. The money can address the problems affecting this county but corruption is the main issue. Even if we get sh100billion with corruption in this county we cannot address our challenges,” Former CS said. The Turkana government administration has said at least 640,000 people are in dire need of food as drought continues to bite. The northern parts of Kenya have received less than 30 per cent of normal rainfall, the worst record in decades. The drought has wiped out water sources and pastures. The Livestock, which the pastoralist communities depend on for livelihood, are emaciated and dying in droves. Munyes said Turkana is faced with problems of hunger, water shortage, poor infrastructures, high poverty levels, high illiteracy levels, unemployment and poor health services. He said his administration will also provide good healthcare by equipping the health facility with machines, health workers and enough drugs to the hospital. He said he will work closely with the National government to foster peaceful coexistence along the borders of neighbouring Counties and Countries including Baringo, West Pokot and Samburu and also Uganda, Ethiopia and South Sudan. “There's a bigger challenge in Turkana, the issue of paying school fees. I will ensure students get bursaries on time to join secondary and college and University to study,” he said.