Jubilee Party vice chair David Murathe said investigating a former president could push the country towards a coup. He noted that such actions are  punitive and may lead to a supremacy battle, the likes of which have never been seen in Kenya. “Uhuru Kenyatta will be Kenya’s only surviving former president after August 9. Now you tell us that you want to subject him to prosecution and torture ?” posed Murathe. The first president of Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta died in 1978, Daniel Moi who succeed him passed away in 2020 while Mwai Kibaki died this year Speaking on Tuesday at K24, he explained that such actions are a recipe for chaos because both the former and the sitting president have networks in the military and police. “This is where you get coups and counter coups because when the elected president comes and starts harassing former presidents, remember these people have supporters and networks including the police and the army,” Murathe added. Last week during his presidential manifesto, Deputy President William Ruto vowed to form a judicial team to investigate actions and policies of President Uhuru Kenyatta if he wins the August 9 election, which has elicited sharp reactions from Jubilee. However, allies of the President and Azimio politicians warned the Deputy President against making such proposals as they could destabilize the country. They described the proposal as “a clear statement of intention to overthrow the current Constitution”. The Jubilee vice chair said the exercise would set a bad precedent in the country. He argued that before their demise , Kenya had treated its former presidents with dignity and such probes will not only embarrass Kenya in Africa but across the whole world. “All our former presidents from Jomo Kenyatta to Moi and Mwai Kibaki have never been subjected to such issues. But you cannot be telling people at a time like this probing the only living president is what you will do if elected to office,” Murathe said . In addition, he urged Kenyans not to vote for Ruto as the next Head of State, arguing that his administration may be one of the worst regimes ever. 