UDA presidential candidate William Ruto on Thursday lashed out at his Azimio opponent Raila Odinga for giving IEBC ultimatums on the voter register. Ruto said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is an independent body and cannot take instructions from aspirants. "Kuzimia wing, you have to make up your mind whether you want to participate in this election and if you do not want to participate in this election, stop giving us threats and ultimatums," he said. Ruto dared Raila to withdraw from the presidential race if he has sensed defeat and let Kenyans vote. "Now that you have discovered that you do not have the votes to win this election and you have also discovered that the deep state and the system cannot help you, please stop the blackmail," Ruto said. He spoke during campaigns at Loiyangalani in Marsabit county. The Deputy President added that candidates should not and cannot be issuing threats or ultimatums to the commission. Ruto urged the Azimio camp to make a definite decision on what they wanted and warned against intimidating the electoral body. "If we go that route, we are not going to have elections. You (Azimio members), are the people who said you wanted an electronic register," he said. "In 2017, you went to court so that we can have an electronic register. Now you have changed you tell us you want a manual register. Please make up your mind." The DP urged IEBC to execute its mandate in accordance to the Constitution. On Wednesday, the ODM leader said that Azimio won't compromise on their demand for provision of a manual register as a complementary voter identification remedy should the electronic system fail on polling day. "Manual register is a must at each and every polling station. It's not negotiable," Raila said during a campaign rally in Gatundu. He said without the alternative registers, he won't allow elections to go on. "We are telling the IEBC they must have a manual register along with biometric identification of the voters on that polling day. Kabla hiyo, hakuna uchaguzi."