Africa 100m world record holder Ferdinand Omanyala is still focused on finishing on the podium at the World Athletics Championships despite a visa hitch that has delayed his travel. Omanyala was in the last-minute rush to obtain the visa and arrive in Oregon in time for the 100m preliminaries set for the opening day of the championships on Friday but by press time, he was yet to secure it. He said what matters to him is getting on the start line on time for the race. "This turn of events does not bother me. I don't think it will affect me psychologically because I am ready. I am hopeful that I will get the visa today so that I manage to make it in time. Further delays may disrupt my readiness," Omanyala said. Athletics Kenya official Barnaba Korir confirmed the hitch but said they are trying to handle it in good time for Omanyala’s travel. “All the team officials have visas apart from Omanyala and the overall team manager David Bunei. However, we are confident they will be sorted out in good time. The problem emanated from how the two responded to some questions at the US Embassy because applying for the US visa is usually an individual affair but we are on it and I believe all will be fine,” he added. Omanyala’s race is set for Saturday at 8:30 am Kenyan time which is Friday 10.30 pm in Oregon. The heats are scheduled for 2:50 pm Kenyan time on Saturday. Omanyala is tipped to reach the semis which will be run at 2 pm Kenyan time on Sunday and potentially 3:50 pm final on the same day. The athlete was initially earmarked to travel with the first batch of 23 that including 19 athletes who left the country aboard three different flights Qatar Airways, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Lufthansa Airlines on Tuesday. He also missed the second batch that left on Wednesday morning. The 26-year-old is worried that he is facing another race of his life, to get a visa for his first ever World Championship appearance. “It takes almost 22 hours to get there and as a sportsman, you need some time to rest and also train a bit to shake the jet lag. Looking at all circumstances and my first race is on Friday, I am just hoping I can leave today (Wednesday) so that I get there Thursday night and rest up a bit,” he added. Omanyala is on record as saying his target is to reach the final and beyond, having reached the semis of both the Olympic Games and the World Indoor Championships earlier this year. Team manager, Rono Bunei has also expressed his worries over the visa hitch, noting that it will be tough for Omanyala to get ready for the races.