Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has warned the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission against messing up with the August 9 general election. He said the recent events involving the arrest and release of three Venezuelan nationals have raised credibility questions about the competency of the commission. He asked the commission to come out clean on the role of the foreigners in the election, saying IEBC has failed to convince Kenyans of its preparedness. “We want clarity, precision and information on the role of the three Venezuelans in the polls. The commission has a constitutional duty to hold free, fair and credible elections,” Kalonzo said. The former vice president spoke during a campaign rally in Voi, Taita Taveta county on Monday. He said it is not too late for the country to form an inquiry to audit and investigate the preparedness of IEBC. “We cannot risk having another bungled election. It is not too late for the government to investigate IEBC,” he said. He further implicated Deputy President William Ruto for taking sides in the drama surrounding the Venezuelans, saying that the DP should desist from interfering with the election. “Ruto should also tell Kenyans why he is defending IEBC when everybody is asking genuine questions. We will not allow him to rig the election,” Kalonzo said. Kalonzo's sentiments come after three Venezuelans were caught with stickers belonging to 10 counties, raising eyebrows about the credibility of the electoral process. The three are Jose Comargo Gregorio, Joel Gustavo Rodriguez Garcia and Salvador Javier Sosa Suarez. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati in a statement on Tuesday, however, downplayed any controversy. He assured Kenyans of a credible poll. He said the stickers were printed based on the details of the gazette notice published on July 1, 2022. "For easy identification of the KIEMS kits, Smartmatic is required to provide stickers to aid labelling each of the kits for purposes of packaging and dispatch to all polling stations," the IEBC boss said. Meanwhile, the Wiper leader urged Taita Taveta residents to support and elect Wiper candidates in the region. He said the party had nominated competent hopefuls who would help transform the region. Wiper candidates in the county who accompanied Kalonzo include former senator Dan Mwazo who is battling for the gubernatorial seat, former Wundanyi MP Thomas Mwadeghu who is vying for the senatorial seat and Wundanyi MP Dan Mwashako. Others are woman representative candidate Esther Mwanyumba, Voi MP hopeful Hamisi Chome among other ward rep candidates. Former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko who also attended the rally said all the affiliate parties in Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition should be allowed to campaign for their candidates. “We are all campaigning for our presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga. Besides that, we should be allowed to drum up support for other candidates in our parties,” Sonko said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)