Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Sunday drummed up support for ODM MP seat candidate in Lang'ata constituency Felix Odiwour better known as Jalang'o. Raila advocated for six piece voting at the August 9 polls saying current MP Nixon Korir of Jubilee was lucky to clinch the seat in 2017. "Sasa mimi sitaki kuona kama kuna madaodoa hapa tena (So now I don't want to see spots here again," Raila said. He spoke during a rally in Kibra slums. "Mara ile ingine mwingine aliponyoka akapitia katikati hapo sasa ng'ambo ile ingine iko madoadoa ati Kenya Kwisha," he added. This translates to: "The other time someone slipped through and now on the other side we have Kenya Kwisha." Kenya Kwisha is a sarcastic reference to Kenya Kwanza coalition. "Nataka kuona kama Lang'ata yote inarudi Azimio. Nataka pande ile ingine ni Jalang'o and pande ile ingine ni Orero Mwalimu." (I want to see the whole of Lang'ata back to Azimio. I want Jalang'o on the other side and Mwalimu Orero on the other) Peter Orero better known as Mwalimu is the Orange Democratic Movement Parliamentary candidate for Kibra constituency. Raila said the sole reason he toured Kibra and Lang'ata constituencies on Sunday was to let them know they let him down in the last general election. "Mliniabisha, mkapiga kura pande ile ingine kwa wale adui yangu. Sasa mimi nataka Lang'ata irudi kwa baba (You demeaned me and voted for my enemies, but now I want Lang'ata back to Baba's side)," Raila said. The ODM leader told the electorate in Lang'ata not to be persuaded by Korir's pledge that he will employ some of them to under CDF funded projects in the constituency. "Hata wale ameandika kwa CDF Jalang'o ataandika kwa CDF," Raila said. He exuded confidence that he will win the August 9 presidential race but will need foot soldiers in parliament. Raila told ODM supporters to turn out in numbers and vote for the party's MP candidates to ensure he has sufficient numbers in Parliament to enable his policies sail through without hindrance. "Nataka mnitume kule juu na wanajeshi wangu, mkiweka wale maadui wangu watanifinya (Send me at the top with my soldiers, if you put my enemies they will crush me)," Raila said. Other than Kibra and Lang'ata, Raila was also scheduled to hold rallies across various parts of the city including Embakasi South, Ruaraka, Mathare Roysambu and Kasarani. Raila together with running mate Martha Karua will finish their city tour in Embakasi Central, where they will hold a rally at the Rally Calvary Grounds.