Breakfast is considered the most important meal that gives you enough energy for the day. Good breakfast is recommended to contain nutrients like folate, fibre, calcium, iron, B vitamins because they have enough energy for a whole day. Unlike dinner or lunch, one will definitely expect greater variety and a more pleasurable experience from their meals. But often times, people tend to go for quick, easy-to-cook food in the morning to save time. Majority of them identify one breakfast regimen and stick with it day in day out. Research by the National Institutes of General Medical Science analysed data where 1,275 American volunteers and a group of 2,624 French volunteers self-reported what they ate at different meals. They found out both groups, about 68 per cent of the participants ate the same breakfast at least twice in one week, and French people did so even more often than Americans. The survey found that two goals that govern meal choices are hedonic, where pleasure is more important while utilitarian is where practicality and usefulness are paramount. "We can pursue pleasure in every meal we have, we can choose  certain food because of the goodness we get from it and seek variety if we set our mind to it," the researchers wrote. People tend to be more alert at the start of day, and would therefore be satisfied with a meal choice that they don't have to think about too much. The other reason people stick to certain types of food  is because of the health benefits like the energy, nutrients and vitamins. "Other factors like psychological, biological and cultural drivers can shape our expectations for meals," the research suggests. "In French and America capitalist labour practices allow many people to have less time to select, prepare, and consume their breakfasts than their lunches or dinners," the researchers said. The enthusiasm for eating also differ depending on the time of day and your mood which is termed as psychological. Introducing variation into weekday breakfasts  even if it means a little extra work  breakfast can become a lot more enjoyable, the group noted.