Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula has said that the Azimio One Kenya coalition has panicked ahead of the general election next month. Wetang’ula said that Azimio is in a state of fright, disorder and suffering from internal turmoil. He was addressing a campaign rally at Toroso market in Sirisia constituency on Thursday. “We want our able competitors to stop pressing every panic button and crying foul against everybody,” the Bungoma Senator said. He said that claims by ODM linking him to ballot printing and a manual voter register are signs of a group that has sensed defeat. Bungoma Ford Kenya governor candidate Kenneth Lusaka and Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga were also present at the rally. Azimio has demanded that IEBC must provide a manual register of voters in every polling station or there will be no election in August. Addressing a campaign rally in Kiambu on Wednesday, Raila said they will not compromise on the demand. On Thursday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati said they will still need the manual voters' register but it will only be used to identify voters if the electronic gadgets fail. Wetang’ula said that Raila is a perennial loser with a bad habit of complaining against the referee. “When he stood for president in 1997 he blamed the electoral agency of being against him, in 2007 he alleged that IEBC was against him causing trouble in the country," he said. "In 2013 he made similar claims and in 2017 he blamed IEBC again and after the supreme court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory he chickened out of the repeat presidential poll." He said that Kenyans will make one revolution that will retire Raila from public life and send him home in August. “This country belongs to the people of Kenya. You’re staring at defeat, oblivion and an unprecedented political and election disaster,” he said. He said that Raila has realised the system and the deep state does not exist. (Edited by Tabnacha O)