Team Kenya to the 24th edition of Deaflympics Games in Brazil got cash awards following their exemplary performance in the city of Caxias do Sul. According to the announcement yesterday, gold medalists received Sh1 million, silver winners  Sh750,000and bronze medallists sh500,000 Gold medallists were Ian Wambui (1,500m), Symon Kibai (5,000m and 10,000m), Elikana Rono (800m) and Lucas Wanjiru (3,000m steeplechase. Kenya managed 24 medals overall to rank first continentally and ninth worldwide. Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Sports Joe Okudo said the cash will hit the athletes' accounts by Thursday. "Cash award is not a favour, it is your right. Team Kenya's performance further affirmed the nation's status as a hub for disability sports.  They exemplified great discipline and have made the country proud on many occasions,"  he stated. He was speaking at Trademark Hotel, Nairobi on Tuesday during the awards ceremony. Okudo hinted that the government has put measures in place to provide an enabling environment to better athletes' preparations for future events irrespective of the government of the day. "The ministry always strives to provide a conducive environment to the athletes. And with proper structures in place, Kenya will continue producing world-beaters." Team Kenya general manager Aska Josephine, said they are already looking forward to participating in future assignments knowing that they have the full backing of the government. "The government's full-hearted support injected belief into the team and they could not afford to disappoint. Our preparations were smooth and everything went according to plan." The 25th edition of the games will be held in 2025 at a yet to be known venue with the month-long event expected to take place in January. Captain Lucas Wandia added:"Don't leave us alone, continue working and supporting us. We want to make the grade in 2025 because we just showed flashes of our brilliance in  Brazil." Meanwhile, tennis sensation Angela Okutoyi encouraged the athletes to remain grounded in their endeavour to reach dizzying heights. The 18-year-old made history by becoming the first Kenyan to win the Wimbledon on Saturday. Okutoyi alongside her dutch partner Rose Marie prevailed in the girl's doubles in London. "A negative mind will never give you a positive life. Always stay positive in whatever situation you are in and continue chasing your dreams,"  she advised.