Jubilee candidate for Kitui gubernatorial seat David Musilahas asked residents to elect leaders based on their development record, not parties. Musila, who on Wednesday took his gubernatorial campaigns to the Thagicu district in the Mwingi North sub-county, said parties do not deliver as that is the mandate of those elected into office. Addressing the residents of the area who are largely the Tharaka sub-tribe, Musila cautioned the people of Kitui at large against being influenced by political parties' euphoria to vote for non-performers in the August 9 polls. Musila who is a former Kitui senator addressed campaign rallies at Nthangani, Ciampiu, Kanyengya and Katoroni trading centres. He asked locals not to be convinced to blindly vote for the dominant Wiper party candidates. “You have for years voted for Wiper candidates but have they been able to solve your problems? I am saying that although I belong to Jubilee vote for me as your governor on account of my past track record,” said Musila. “You will not go to Wiper party headquarters to ask for service or development projects but you will seek the same from the good leaders you will elect regardless of whichever political party they belong to.” Musila, the pioneer national chairman of the Wiper Party led by Kalonzo Musyoka, said since he left the party,  it has lost its mojo. He asked the locals not to bank any hopes on the Wiper party and its leadership. He said only individuals who had demonstrable quality leadership will help county residents to bring desired changes. He sought to galvanize the support of the Tharaka people in his bid for Kitui governorship saying he had done a lot for them in the past. He said he was instrumental in the creation of the Thagicu district in 2017. “Not only that I played a key role in ensuring the establishment of the Thagicu to ensure that you get government service but I also ensured that the administrative unit got a code to ensure that your sons and daughter get public service jobs,” said Musila. He added that for his affinity with the Tharakas, when he was the Senator for Kitui, he visited Ciampiu Health Centre to find the facility had no beds in the maternity ward and made a personal donation of beds. Musila added that he also sponsored university education for two students from the Tharaka community through the David Musila Foundation who have since graduated. Lamenting that the Tharaka sub-tribe had been marginalized in the past in terms of development, education, job opportunities, provision of water and health care, Musila promised to reverse the trend once elected governor.