Politicians seeking elective seats in Homa Bay want security officers and IEBC to tame escalating cases of violence in the county. Homa Bay governor candidate Evans Kidero, Ndhiwa MP hopeful Agostino Neto of the United Green Movement and woman representative hopeful Mary Ojode (DAP-K) called on the agencies to curb the chaos witnessed during campaign rallies. They expressed concerns that the rising cases of chaos during campaigns will cause serious damage in Homa Bay. The latest violence occurred in West Kamagak ward in Kasipul constituency, where more than four people were injured last Monday. Kasipul parliamentary candidate Mohammed Swalleh was among those injured in the politically charged burial ceremony. Speaking during a joint political rally at Gaena market in Ndhiwa , Kidero said there is a need for quick interventions to curb violence in the county. Kanu Senate candidate Tom Ojanga was also present. Kidero cited violent incidents that occurred at Pala, Wage, Nyakwere in Karachuonyo constituency. Similar violence had also been witnessed in Ndhiwa and Kasipul constituencies. “The cases of violence in Homa Bay are alarming. Let the police and IEBC move with speed and curb this situation,” Kidero said. The former Nairobi governor asked politicians to focus on their campaign agenda rather than violence. “We need to tell sell our manifestos to the people of Homa Bay instead of engaging in violence. Violence is an old method of seeking for votes and it should not be encouraged,” he said. Neto argued that there is a group of politicians in Homa Bay, who target their strong opponents. The former MP warned that such violence should be stopped quickly to avoid voter apathy and low turnout. “It is wrong that some politicians who have sensed defeat start causing violence as a way of fighting for their lost glory. I want to tell them that there is no election which is won by violence,” Neto said. He called on his fellow politicians to comply with the IEBC codes of conduct they signed and embrace peaceful campaigns. “There is no need of fighting because all of us are supporting Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga,” Neto said. Ojode said politicians who cause chaos lack an agenda for the people. She urged residents to reject them at the ballot. “Let the situation not escalate to uncontrollable levels. Police and IEBC should intervene fast,” Ojode said. Ojanga asked residents not to be coerced by the six-piece voting style. “We’ll vote for Raila but down here we must have a mix and match,” he said. Kidero’s running mate Elijah Kodo called for unity and asked the police not to spare anybody who breaches peace. “We want to see people who perpetrate the attack arrested and charged,” Kodoh said. They asked IEBC to even revoke the candidature of those caught perpetrating violence in the county. (Edited by Tabnacha O)