The government will not condone criminal gangs believed to be re-assembling to cause trouble during the political season and in the forthcoming polls. Coast regional coordinator John Elungata has warned the youth against joining criminal gangs to cause chaos during the election. He cited the outlawed Mombasa Republican Council and Miticharaka criminal gang in Tana River as some of the criminal formations being closely monitored by the police. Elungata also warned the youth against allowing themselves to be used or misused by politicians to cause chaos during campaigns and the elections period in any part of Kenya. He spoke when he presided over a security meeting that brought together regional security heads from Lamu and Tana River counties on Monday. The administrator said police in the region are also following closely on the actions of youth in the region and warned those planning to join criminal gangs that their days were numbered. “We have groups like the MRC and Miticharaka that are closely on our radar. We are asking our young people to stay away from such. What do you benefit by belonging to such gangs?" Elungata said. "You don’t want us to catch you. We will deal with such accordingly and let them count their days.” He revealed that the national government has dispatched enough officers to all six coastal counties to ensure peace and security are guaranteed before, during and after the August 9 polls. Elungata also warned politicians in the region against spreading hate speech and divisive politics, including those spreading false propaganda using social media. He said such politicians risk being struck off the ballot and will also be hunted down by the police, arrested and charged for incitement as per the Kenyan law. The administrator further asked politicians to exercise caution and restraint in their speech and actions as per the directives of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. "Our officers have instructions to keep an eye on rallies and social media handles of our politicians here. We will not allow hateful politicking which might plunge our country into chaos,” he said. He assured security officers that the government will continue to meet their needs and ensure they receive all the necessary support needed.  (edited by Amol Awuor)