Ganze residents and leaders in Kilifi want the government to permanently erect an electric fence along the Tsavo East National Park border to prevent rogue elephants from terrorising them. This is after efforts to drive back the elephants to Tsavo failed due to the presence of herders. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said the relocation operation launched three weeks ago has had many challenges. Speaking during the launching of school projects in his constituency Mwambire urged the government to come up with an electric fence project to ensure the problem is resolved permanently. He said residents have suffered because there is no fence to block them from accessing the area. “For the last four months elephants have been terrorising us, we brought a chopper to push them out it failed, but the elephants are still within. The chopper is back for three days. I hope that we shall not graze in the forest to allow elephants to be taken back to the Tsavo,” he said. He said elephants walk in herds of 40 animals and it has been difficult to chase them. To him, the permanent solution is to ensure the constituencies surrounding the park and counties together with the national government come together and contribute to setting up an electric fence. He said talks have begun and Kilifi governor candidate Gideon Mung'aro agreed to set up funds for fencing. Mwambire said Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River, and Taita Taveta should come together to get a permanent solution. Ganze subcounty director of education Rashid Mjimba supported the MP and emphasised the need to set up an electric fence within the counties bordering the park to end the human-wildlife conflicts. He said where there are residents schools also exist and proper fencing will ensure the smooth running of operations. “We need to ensure people have access to water by setting up boreholes for them to stop relying on rainfall,” he said. Jila Secondary School principal Mary Kenga said the fence will reduce the threats that constantly face students and the general public whenever the elephants raid the areas because lives have been lost and crops destroyed.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris