Young people at the Coast have been urged to take advantage of the blue economy to give them jobs and a better life. Agriculture CAS Lawrence Ouhaka on Friday also urged young people to avoid crime, drugs, terrorism and "all forms of evil". He was addressing parties involved in marine fishing at Liwatoni Fisheries Complex in Mombasa. He flagged off 44 motorcycles and 23 vehicles donated by the World Bank to the Sh10 billion Kenya Marine Fisheries Socioeconomic Development (KEMFSED) project. It is being implemented by the national government and the World Bank. Omuhaka asked young people to seize opportunities offered by the project. "This project will increase fish for consumption and sale so our people will get better livelihoods," he said. A fish processing plant for value addition is being set up and will create many jobs, the CAS said. "With the infrastructure in place, I urge the team to fast-track implementation so our people can benefit," Omuhaka said. The project has great potential to strengthen the fisheries department and improve Kenya's blue economy, the CAS said. The project is being implemented in Kwale, Mombasa, Tana River, Lamu and Kilifi counties. It started two years ago and it will run for five years. The motorcycles and vehicles are very helpful as the project covers a very large area with a poor road network. the vehicles will provide much-needed extension services to counties and communities. The project will give grants on a merit basis to Coast groups. Mombasa county commissioner John Otieno urged young people to apply for grants. "Use them to do worthwhile projects. Let's quit gangs and radicalisation. We can use this project to change and become focused industrial youths,” he said. He encouraged residents to start commercial fishing, target the international market and turn around their economic status. Otieno also urged young people to be optimistic, work their way out of poverty and help their families. "Our youth are in danger, especially the boy child," he said. "Due to unemployment, most have resorted to drugs. Academic standards have fallen. "I urge them to take up maritime courses in local colleges because there are more opportunities in the blue economy," he said. Luciana Sanzua, chairperson of the county executive committee members in the region, said the fisheries project can rekindle the hopes of Coast people. "This project is bound to improve our lives and make a significant contribution to GDP. But it needs proper monitoring to achieve its goals," she said. The fisheries executive from Kilifi county said the project should invest in vessels to monitor marine resources. Dr Francis Owino, PS of the state department of Fisheries and the Blue Economy, promised continued support from the national government. Owino urged Coast counties to share donated resources with other counties if needed. (Edited by V. Graham)