A rifle that was stolen from two police officers during a robbery incident at the Matuu Equity branch, Machakos, has been recovered in a thicket in Ruiru, Kiambu County. The AK47 rifle was recovered in a thicket at a private farm on July 7, 2022, almost a year after it was stolen. The owner of the farm told police he was clearing a bush when he stumbled on the weapon. The weapon serial number KE KP 55266385 was recovered with 21 bullets in the thicket and was in a serviceable form then, police said. Nine bullets were missing from the 30 that were in it when it was robbed. No arrest has been made and it is not clear how long it has been at the scene. It was snatched from constable Patrick Omusebe on July 27, 2021, during a violent robbery incident in the bank by five suspected thugs. The weapon was taken to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for ballistic tests to establish if it has been used in any attacks. In the incident, witnesses and police said the gang of three first attacked two police officers who were on duty at the facility and grabbed their guns before storming the bank. They ordered some of the staff and customers present to lie down. A review of CCTV footage showed one of the officers who was manning the bank, Constable Dorothy Opili, left her seat outside the premises shortly before the robbery. On leaving, she left an AK-47 rifle, serial number 5527115 and loaded with 30 rounds of ammunition with her colleague, Omusebe. The male officer had his own AK47, serial number 5526385, also loaded with 30 rounds of ammunition. Shortly, he placed both rifles on the floor and sat down. The footage showed the gang struck at exactly 9 am as the bank had opened its doors. Omusebe was the first one to be taken on by two robbers, both armed with pistols, who overpowered him and grabbed the two rifles under his care before pushing him to the banking hall. Another policeman who was nearby fled on a motorcycle to the nearby bank and notified two officers who were manning the premises. Police said then the gang also engaged responding teams in a shootout and they suspect one of the men was injured. The raid is said to have lasted for over 10 minutes before the gang drove off amid a chase. The bank was then closed on a temporary basis to reinforce their security measures.