Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago wants the government to allow the Moi University Sacco resume operations following its collapse. The Sacco has been under liquidation for several years. It collapsed due to debts amounting to more than Sh1 billion and it has been under liquidation for more than three years. But Mandago says the liquidator will not help revive the Sacco and should be removed. “The liquidator will not help revive the Sacco and does not care about the welfare of members. The Cooperatives Department should give back the operation license to Sacco”, Mandago said. He addressed members of various cooperatives from the county. The governor said shareholders of Moi University Sacco should be allowed to chart the way forward and resume operations. He said the Sacco was wealthy and should not be allowed to die because of debts that can be sorted out through dialogue. The governor said if elected senator of Uasin Gishu he would push to have the laws governing Saccos amended  so that those in distress are placed under management of other Saccos but not liquidators. Mandago’s intervention comes just days after hundreds of Moi University staff protested in Eldoret over stalled operations of their Sacco. It has more than 3,700 members and was liquidated with assets and cash operations valued at more than Sh15 billion. The government cancelled its operations licence and members are demanding that it should be reinstated. The members, including current and retired university staff, said their savings had drowned in the society, which owns the 14 storey Musco Towers located in Eldret CBD. They threatened to invade Musco Towers and evict the liquidators, arguing that the takeover was done fraudulently to grab the savings of shareholders. The spokesman of the shareholders Prof Kebutu Rotich said since the Sacco was liquidated illegally through corruption, it had collected more than Sh400 million that cannot be accounted for. Rotich said even after collecting the money, the liquidators had not paid any money to Co-operative Bank, which is owed more thanSh500 million by the Sacco. The debt partly led to the liquidation. He said the term of the liquidators expired on June 30, 2021 and they should vacate the building and the Sacco or be forcefully removed. “The Sacco members and dependents are more than 500,000 and all of them are now suffering because it was liquidated and nothing has been going on,” Rotich said. He said since the liquidator took over they had collected more than Sh60 million from members at the university. Another Sh140 million had been collected as rent from Musco Towers and property valued at more than Sh60 million sold. The Sacco, members said, had more than Sh40 million at the time of liquidation. Two years ago the shareholders petitioned the Senate to save Musco Towers, which they said was being targeted for auction to recover Sh500 million owed to Cooperative Bank. The Senate after investigating the matter directed that the license be reinstated. The government in 2018 revoked the licence of the Sacco and placed it under liquidation. A gazette notice published three years ago by the Commissioner for Co-operative Development cancelled the registration of the Sacco and appointed two liquidators to take custody for a year. Musco was established in 1988 by Moi University staff to empower themselves economically. It draws membership from Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Masinde Muliro, Maasai Mara and Kabianga universities. Edited by Henry Makori