Public service, youth and gender affairs CS Margaret Kobia on Saturday disbursed Sh39 million affirmative action funds in Meru County. The amount included Sh24.2 million from Women Enterprise Fund which was disbursed to 71 groups and 818 individual beneficiaries and Sh15.2 million disbursed from Uwezo Fund to 138 groups. CS Kobia disbursed the funds during an event at Mariinya-a-Ruibi Primary School in Buuri Constituency. During the event, she also commissioned a borehole and launched a new administration block. Kobia urged the students to be fearless in their pursuit of greatness, pointing out that one's background should not hinder them from reaching their full potential. "As alumni of this school, we are a testament to the fact that one's background does not limit their future. That with hard work and determination we can all access opportunities for success," she said. She further said there is a need to invest in children, as a way of investing in the future. "Education is the greatest equalizer and it is the most valuable inheritance we can bequeath our children. Therefore investing in this school is investing in our children, in their future and the future of this entire community." The construction of the commissioned borehole and the administration block was a joint effort between the alumni, the Ministry of Education, the school administration and FAO. Speaking, the Food and Agriculture Organization Representative Carla Mucavi said the borehole will improve food security for the community. "This borehole will improve food and nutrition security in the two schools and support CBC, the 4K Club and KCSE agriculture projects, among other agricultural activities." The borehole will provide a domestic water supply system for the primary and secondary school, three churches and a dispensary, communal water points as well as livestock watering, and drip irrigation. Women Enterprise Fund has provided a total amount of Sh1 billion in loans to various women groups in Meru County, since 2013. Uwezo Fund on the other hand has contributed Sh251 million to 49,261 households in Meru County for the same period to benefit women, youth and persons with disabilities. CS Kobia also launched the Women Enterprise Fund's “Women WellnessProgramme” a programme, established to support women’s health.