Four outgoing governors in the North Rift region have started preparing to hand over to their successors after completing two terms in office. Governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, Josphat Nanok of Turkana Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia have instructed their teams to start preparing for their exit. Tolgos said he is preparing his performance report and other details during his administration as he prepares to exit. He is vying for the Senate seat in the county. UDA’s Wesley Rotich is leading a three-horse race to succeed Tolgos in Elgeyo Marakwet. Others in the race include Samson Changwony (independent) and Andrew Chelimo of the New Vision Party. Mandago’s administration in Uasin Gishu has allocated Sh40 million to be used on smooth transition and office expenses after the August 9 elections. The money will mostly be spent on ceremonies and activities to bid farewell to Mandago and also welcome the new county boss. MCAs will also benefit after the county allocated Sh100 million for their car grants and mortgages soon after they take over at the county assembly. Details of the allocations are contained in the county budget estimates for 2022-23 which were presented at the county assembly by executive for finance Samwel Yego. “All this will ensure a smooth transition from the current administration to the incoming one,” Yego said. Three candidates are battling to succeed Mandago. They are UDA’s Jonathan Bii, businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki (independent) and William Kirwa of UDM. Mandago is campaigning for Bii, popularly known as Koti Moja, to succeed him in Uasin Gishu. The governor is also vying for the Senate seat through UDA and his main opponent is independent candidate Robert Kemei. “I'm already preparing to exit but I urge you to elect Bii because I know you will be in safe hands under him. He has been struggling to be elected for many years and he has shown his commitment to serve Uasin Gishu,” Mandago said at a UDA rally in Soy. His team is also preparing handover notes for the incoming administration. In Trans Nzoia, Khaemba is also preparing his exit. The race to succeed him has boiled down to two main contenders-George Natembeya of DAP-K and Chris Wamalwa of Ford Kenya. Khaemba has faced challenges in completing his projects, including the Sh2 billion Trans Nzoia County Referral Hospital. Both candidates have pledged to take over the stalled projects. In Turkana, Nanok is also preparing to hand over to his successor.  Among those seeking to succeed him is former CS John Munyes, who is vying on Jubilee ticket. Edited by A.N