Kenya Prisons left attacker Meldina Sande has vowed to punch above her weight and work her way into coach Paul Bitok's plans ahead of the World Championships in two months. The quadrennial show will be co-hosted by the Netherlands and Poland between September 25 and October 15. Sande 25, is among the 16 players currently in Brazil for a two-month High-Performance Training in preparation for the World Championships. The Webuye native hopes to make her Malkia Strikers debut at the 19th edition of the competition but has her work cut out owing to the calibre of players she is jostling for position with. Sande is battling for the two slots in her position alongside captain Mercy Moim, who has been Malkia's go-to player, Kenya Pipeline duo of Noel Murambi and hard-hitting Veronica Adhiambo as well as clubmate Yvonne Wavinya. "I have a point to prove in the first place but I must come into the reckoning of the coach and try to make an impact in the team. I don't want to be a squad player. I want to fight for my place and become an important part of the Malkia setup." The Scared Heart Mukumu Girls alumnus joined the Wardresses in 2017 Sande is an African Club championship 2021 bronze medalist and helped the Josp Barasa's charges retain their national title the same year. The enterprising player was named the Most Valuable Player during the Prison Championship  Commissioner Cup in May. "I would like to make a dream debut and keep alive my dream of playing professional volleyball in the near future," she said. "I have been in top form lately but I believe my ball reception is wanting even as I itch to make great points for the team. I have fought so hard for this chance." My all-time dream is about to be fulfilled and, therefore, I won't let Kenya down. With the trust of the coaches and support from my teammates, the sky must be my limit." Sande was scouted by coach David Lung'aho during a tournament held in Moding, Teso North Constituency. She was the 2015 best attacker in the Kakamega County Games before being feted the MVP the following year at the same level. Malkia are in Pool 'A' alongside Italy, Netherlands, Cameroon, Puerto Rico and Belgium.