371 farmers groups in Trans Nzoia County were on Monday issued cheques worth Sh121 million to support their activities. The amount was a grant courtesy of the World Bank under the National Agriculture and Rural Inclusive Project ( NAGRIP). The aim of the project is to boost the farmers' economic ventures. The last year mile project is aimed at empowering small-scale farmers including those in the dairy, chicken, tomatoes and banana sectors. The program started in 2018. Trans Nzoia County Governor Patrick Khaemba who graced the issuance of the cheques at the National Museums of Kenya in Kitale on Monday asked the National Government and other development partners to continue boosting the project kitty even after his exit from office. Khaemba said his administration had pumped in Sh59 million in support of the project that seeks to combat poverty by empowering farmers to earn better through agricultural production. The County boss challenged leaders, especially those that will be elected to represent the county in the National Assembly and the Senate to institute policies that will be favourable for Agricultural growth in order to make the region produce more for both domestic and commercial purposes. "I’m challenging our leaders from this county seeking to be elected to the National Assembly and the senate to work closely with whoever will be picking the mantle from me to help improve the agricultural sector," he said. He cited that other projects initiated by his administration had succeeded. Khaemba challenged those pointing fingers at his administration to seek to do more if elected to the office. Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock CEC Maria Nzomo said that under the five years of its implementation, the County of Trans Nzoia remained among the top performing in the whole county. "Our County was ranked number two in both 2019 and 2020 out of the 21 implementing counties. We managed to scoop position three in 2021 and this year according to the International Mission Support program under World Bank," she said. Nzomo was invited to speak after the governor said the project targeted 20 electoral wards out of the 25 in the county. "The whole aim is to increase agricultural production through community participatory and value chain approaches," she said. She said the project has so far strengthened 23 production organizations among them 8 for dairy, 7 for chicken, and 4 for banana. The function was attended by Trans Nzoia Deputy Governor Stanley Tarus Kennei, Trans Nzoia County Assembly Clerk Moses Lupao, CECs, Chief officers, County administrative officers, Sub County administrators, ward administrators, departmental heads and all county staff. The function was also attended by sub-county commissioners, assistant county commissioners, chiefs and their assistants and members of the public.