The government will deploy an additional 250 security officers in the banditry-hit Kerio Valley to enhance safety during the August 9 polls. Security teams will particularly be deployed in more populated areas and  polling centres. The region, especially areas along the borders of West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties, had been affected by banditry attacks before the government moved in three weeks ago to restore order. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo have expressed satisfaction with measures so far taken to restore security in affected areas. “We have asked the Interior ministry to deploy additional security teams so that as we head into the elections, all our people will be safe to participate,” Tolgos said. A report seen by the Star indicates that county chiefs requested an additional 250 officers to patrol the region during the election period. Rift Valley regional commissioner Maalim Mohammed said on Sunday security had been enhanced in all areas of the valley. “We will continue to review the situation and ensure we do not have insecurity challenges again, especially during the election period,” he said. Last month, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in the Kerio Valley as one of the measures to fight banditry. The curfew affects areas in Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo counties affected by banditry attacks. Last week the government extended the curfew imposed in Kerio Valley region for another month despite calls by residents to have it reviewed. The curfew has been extended to August 7, two days to the August 9 polls. Mohammed said the extension was meant to ensure full implementation of the measures to help end banditry, which had claimed more than 110 people in six months. “We still have some work to do to ensure the complete safety of our people in Kerio Valley and that is why we have again extended the curfew,” the administrator said. He said the dusk-to-dawn curfew had been strictly enforced in affected areas. Several measures introduced by CS Matiang'i to help curb banditry in Kerio Valley have helped to stop attacks in the last three weeks. The CS had visited the region on June 8 to assess the security situation. Mohammed said police have also stepped up patrols and enforcement of the curfew. Tolgos said the measures put in place by Matiang'i are bearing fruit and the same should be sustained throughout the election period. “We want total safety in Kerio Valley so that our people will freely be able to participate in the elections,” he said. Some residents said the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed in the area should be revised before the polls. “We appreciate the measures so far put in place by the government to restore security in Kerio Valley, but the curfew should be removed and instead extra officers deployed,” resident Paul Chemweno said. Residents had raised fear that the insecurity in the region may affect the polls, but the government has assured that additional safety measures are being put in place. Edited by A.N