Wiper Party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka, has told Deputy President William to keep him out of his politics, saying he is not his competitor in his bid for State House. He instead told him to direct his attack on the Azimio presidential flag bearer, Raila Odinga, who is his main rival in the race. Kalonzo said he has not engaged Ruto as his advocate and thus he does not need any offers. "I want to tell him today to stop talking about me, I am not in any trouble to need his help. Let him keep his lane,” stated Kalonzo. Ruto, said Musyoka, should concentrate on his campaigns, actively engage the voters and canvass their support instead of engaging in constant attacks against him. "Mimi sitafuti kura, wacha akimbishane na Baba’, (I am not looking for votes, let him battle it out with Baba,” said the Wiper Party boss. During his visit to Ukambani Saturday, Ruto asked Musyoka to cross over from the ‘troubled’ Azimio coalition. On Sunday, however, Musyoka said he was not facing any troubles in Azimio and does not want anybody to defend him. He further told Ruto to stop his unending confrontation against his boss, President Uhuru, saying he too was not his competitor in the August ninth poll. He said Kenyatta was bowing out of office in two weeks’ time and there is no need for the two to engage in a mudslinging contest. "Let all of us wish him well and enjoy his life in retirement,” said Musyoka. He made the remarks during various stopovers during a visit to Kisii. Kalonzo pitched tents in Sameta in Bobasi, Nyatieko in Kitutu Chache South and Gesima and Borabu in Nyamira. In both counties, he drummed up support for the Azimio coalition and candidates vying on his party ticket. In Kisii, he drummed up support for Innocent Obiri (Bobasi)and Andrew Maubi (Kitutu Chache South) who are vying for parliamentary seats. He also urged the electorate to vote for Doris Donya Toto, former radio personality, who is vying for the woman rep seat on the Wiper Party ticket. In Nyamira he drummed up support for Ben Momanyi who is seeking the county governor seat. Musyoka said he was in Kisii as a harbinger for Odinga’s tour Tuesday to the region. The Azimio La Umoja leader is due to conduct a major rally at Gusii Stadium on Tuesday. On Sunday, Musyoka said Kenya will be safer in the hands of Azimio.