The police in Kiambu county on Tuesday gunned down two most wanted robbery with violence suspects. After a fierce chase with the officers, two suspects were shot dead while the third member managed to escape with gunshot wounds. The suspects were using a motorcycle to escape the police when they were cornered at Thogoto in the Kikuyu subcounty. The night incident attracted residents who watched the chase from their houses. County police commander Perminus Muchangi said they recovered five homemade guns from the criminals. They also recovered one motorcycle which the three have been using to rob residents of Kikuyu, Gitaru, Kinoo, King’eero, Thogoto, Uthiru and Gachie. “The gang has been terrorising people by robbing them money, wrist watches and other valuables. They would snatch your phone and damage it to bar you from calling for help,” Salome Wanja, a Thogoto resident said. Wanja, who is a member of Nyumba Kumi thanked the police for acting fast after a tip-off from the public. “They use a motorcycle to pass through tiny corridors where a police car cannot pass to evade arrest,” she said. Muchangi said they suspect the criminals are not from within the county because nobody was able to identify any of them. He asked health facilities to report to the police any patient with gunshot wounds seeking medical attention in the area. The police boss said they were working together with the community to help reduce crime in the county. “All criminal gangs that think we are not aware of the activities should be warned because they are next. You better look for something else to do, because we are working as a big team to stop crime” he said. Their bodies were taken to Nairobi City Mortuary. Muchangi also held a joint meeting with Kikuyu, Kabete and Kiambaa divisional police heads at Kiambaa police station, after they netted bhang in an operation in Banana town. He said they have beefed up security in the whole county to secure residents as the country heads towards the August 9 general election. (Edited by Tabnacha O)