Deputy President William Ruto has pledged to lower the food price and high cost of living if elected President. Ruto said the Kenya Kwanza government has extensive plans to revamp the poor and current disoriented country's economy. "We have agreed to concentrate on matters of the economy first by reducing the high cost of living standards," he said. Ruto said the price of commodities keeps on rising and hunger is wreaking havoc because of a lack of proper investment in the agricultural sector. The DP said the rising flour price has got nothing to do with the war in the neighbouring countries but a failure of the government to empower local farmers. "Let them not give us excuses about Ukraine-Russia, It is laziness, we didn't assist farmers to produce enough food," he said. Ruto said the handshake destroyed the big four agendas that had sufficient plans for the farmers and making the country productive. He said before the reunion of ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta farmers used to receive subsidies for fertilizers but after the handshake, everything collapsed. "Before the handshake in 2018, the fertilizer was sh 2, 800 but today is sh 7000," he said. The Kenya Kwanza leader said the flour price used to cost Sh90 but is now sold at Sh230. He said the food prices will continue to shoot up if Raila is elected. Ruto said the ODM leader must go home and retire with president Uhuru Kenyatta. He said Raila doesn't know the suffering of the ordinary people and the Azimio team gets to know about hunger in newspapers. Ruto said electing leaders who are unfamiliar with the challenges facing residents is a big mistake. The DP said Kenyans need solutions to their problems, not meaningless riddles. He said unemployment has become a national crisis which needs immediate interventions. Ruto said the Kenya Kwanza government will set aside Sh200 billion each year for textile, agro-processing, value-added manufacturing and housing. "We have a marshall plan to create employment opportunities for the youth and each year enough funds will be allocated so that youth can have a good life," he said. The DP spoke at the Ukunda bus park in Msambweni sub-county on Wednesday. Ruto said his government will empower small-scale business people to grow their businesses. He said the Kenya Kwanza recognize and value every job, unlike the Azimio who are disrespectful to low-standard jobs. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said the flour price is being used politically. He said Kenyans are being lied that it has been reduced for them to vote for the Azimio government and raised afterwards. "They are lying to us that they have lowered flour price for them to fulfil their goal but after elections, the prices will be hiked again," he said. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi said Ruto will address the coastal land issues by buying land from the absentee land owners and giving it back to the community. Kingi said Ruto will return port operations to the coastal people for youth to get jobs. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said Ruto is the solution to the high cost of living. He urged Kwale residents to vote for the Kenya Kwanza government.