Stax, an app by Hover Developer Services Inc. that allows its customers to send money, buy airtime, pay bills, and request money offline, is going one step further to give their Kenyan users the gift of time. Kenyan users can now buy airtime with Mpesa on the Stax app and from 3% to 5% bonus airtime to communicate with their loved ones, friends or clients for longer. If you do not have the Stax app, now would be a good time to download it and enjoy these rewards. This shift aimed at improving inclusivity through user convenience will allow Kenyans to enjoy more value from their money. This means 500 shillings worth of airtime will become 525 shillings. Kenyan users can buy airtime for any network and enjoy these benefits. “Without airtime, mobile devices are more or less an upgraded photo album, where we look through the captured memories. That is not the case, as airtime makes using our mobile devices more enjoyable. " "Now imagine being able to make an airtime purchase directly from an app without being limited by your internet connection and then getting rewarded for it. This gives users convenience, freedom and extra value.” - a contact at Stax shared. Convenience Stax wants to expand the choices of their Kenyan customers to buy airtime online or offline with Mpesa and still get the best value. “We are always on the hunt for ways to make life easier for our users at Stax; we have launched a new feature that helps you purchase airtime directly from Stax by paying with Mpesa." "Whether you are offline or online, you can buy airtime. On top of that, you can get rewarded for it by getting up to 5% more than you paid for,” - Peace Itimi, Head of Growth at Stax, shared. Freedom There is a freedom that comes with having a choice - choosing how you want to transact and where you want to transact from. Not being limited by the availability of the internet or the lack of it. There’s a level of confidence that comes with that freedom. With that freedom, you know you will not be stranded. No matter the situation, you have an option. That’s the freedom Stax customers flaunt confidently. Some reviews from the Google Playstore: Extra Value In addition to the benefits that Stax offers, they are offering their Kenyan customers extra value by rewarding them with between 3% to 5% bonus airtime extra airtime for every airtime purchase with Mpesa at no extra cost. No hidden charges, no extra steps. Just buy airtime on the Stax app with Mpesa and get your reward instantly. It’s a win-win with Stax. How can you enjoy this airtime reward? Download the Stax app now, connect any bank account of your choice, buy airtime for yourself or your loved ones and enjoy huge returns. https://stax.onelink.me/nR0j/star