If you are finding it hard to sleep  your evening habits and routines could be to blame. According to data from Ohio State University, it can take 6-8 hours for your body to process and eliminate the caffeine you drink in one sitting. Besides contributing to insomnia, caffeine is a stimulant that can also increase feelings of nervousness and anxiety. Large amounts of fat slow down digestion and can cause heartburn, leaving you feeling uncomfortable which can interfere with quality sleep. Some research also suggest that consuming high-fat foods later in the day can disrupt circadian rhythms, leading to fragmented sleep. Spicy foods can be a trigger for indigestion and heartburn. This when paired with having a poor sleeping position can give mean especially restless nights. Eating foods with high sugar content causes a quick spike in your blood sugar. This tends to disrupt some of your sleep hormones, leading to less restful sleep. Eating an entire chocolate bar is not nearly as potent as a cup of coffee when it comes to caffeine, but it could mean you are consuming as much caffeine as a can of soda. Try limiting yourself to just one square of dark chocolate close to bedtime. The timing of your last meal before bed is really important. Nutritionists recommend avoiding eating two to three hours before going to sleep. Instead of stuffing your stomach with meals in the evening, it is better to spread out your calories more evenly throughout the day, then take your time and savour the evening meal to avoid overeating. If you feel like you need something to eat and it’s late, opt for a light snack that might help promote relaxation and a good night’s sleep. Foods that are high in magnesium or tryptophan can help you relax. Magnesium-rich foods such as dark chocolate, bananas, avocado, pumpkin seeds, edamame, almonds, non-fat yogurt, banana. Keeping the same evening routine can help you get to bed on time  and help you get a solid night’s sleep. Try putting your phone away to help you ease into the night.