Willy Ambaka and Vincent Onyala are the two notable inclusions in the Kenya Sevens squad ahead of Commonwealth Games in Birmingham later this month. Both players featured at the Tokyo Olympics last year with Ambaka joining the Russian Club, St Petersburg Narvaskaya Zastava, for a one-year stint. On the other hand, Onyala has been part of the Simbas who recently did duty in World Cup qualifiers and also played at the Currie Cup. Ambaka rejoined the squad last month and has been training with them as he gets to grip the new coaching style and management of Englishman Damian McGrath. Ambaka, skipper Nelson Oyoo and Billy Odhiambo are the three survivors of the last Commonwealth Games held in Gold Coast, Australia in 2018. Kabras rising star Kevin Wekesa makes the squad following his impressive performances in the World Seven Series. Shujaa are in Pool 'D' alongside neighbours Uganda, Jamaica and one of the tournament favourites Australia for the two-day championship. McGrath said the team is relishing the challenge of competing after an intense four-week training period at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "We have been working well with strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani over the past few weeks and I am happy to report the boys are in good shape. We hope to make it out of the pool stages this time around," he added. The Englishman added that he has seen an improvement in basic skills in the squad. "My biggest worry when I came was our poor basic skills but I believe we are getting better with each training session,” observed McGrath. Skipper Nelson Oyoo said fans will see a different team to the one that has been struggling at the World Seven Series with Shujaa failing to make it to the Cup quarters this year. "We have worked on several facets of play which have let us down. Our kickoff, reception, attack, defence and most importantly our fitness are now on another level,” added Oyoo. At the last club games in Australia, Shujaa lost to New Zealand  40-7 but beat Canada 26-10 and Zambia 47-0 but failed to advance to the semis with the top team in each pool qualifying to the medal bracket. In the classification matches, Kenya lost to Australia 33-5.  The rugby sevens competition in Birmingham runs from July 29  to July 31 at the Coventry Stadium. Squad: Nelon Oyoo (captain), Herman Humwa, Alvin Otieno, Vincent Onyala, Bush Mwale, Kevin Wekesa, Tony Omondi, Johnstone Olindi, Billy Odhiambo, Edmond Anya, Daniel Taabu, Levi Amunga, Willy Ambaka. Management: Damian McGrath (head coach), Kevin Wambua (assistant coach),  Geoffrey Kimani (strength and conditioning Coach), Lamech Bogonko (physio) and Erick Ogweno (team manager)