Muranga Catholic diocese leaders now want Kenyans not to vote for Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah. Led by Bishop James Wainaina, the group said Wajackoyah is unfit to lead Kenya. They faulted Wajackoyah's manifesto saying he is advocating for illegalities. "Two items of great concern that are apparently proposed by the presidential candidate are legalization of marijuana and prostitution," he said. The Bishop added that bhang is listed as illegal for a reason saying the herb is responsible for destroying most families in Kenya. "It has rendered them destitute and made them havens of unthinkable domestic violence." Wainaina said in some cases, rehabilitation is expensive for both the affected persons and the families. "Prostitution in any and all its manner of practice is immoral and leads to social decadence that is unacceptable in a sane society. In our Kenyan society, we have in the past built a society that is generally God-fearing. This must be protected," the religious leader said. He added that a leader should have personal integrity and discipline as per the Constitution. While launching his manifesto at KICC on Thursday, the Roots party leader said his administration will legalize and make land available for farming of marijuana, in a bid to better Kenya's economy and pay off China's debt. On Friday, NACADA said it permits medical and scientific use of cannabis but recreational and commercial trade remains prohibited. "Let be known that the law is still in force and that anyone contravening this law i.e being in possession or trading in cannabis will be apprehended," it said in a statement. Wajackoyah also said Kenya will start snake farming for the anti-venom and venom business. Wajackoyah added that he will also sell dog meat and hyena testicles to the Chinese. The Union of Veterinary Practitioners, however, condemned the proposal, saying it is a recipe for yet another pandemic. "As you are aware, the Covid-19 originated in the Wuhan market in China as a result of trade in wildlife products. Kenya should be prepared for a surge in zoonotic diseases such as rabies, brucellosis, and Leptospirosis.....among others should trade in hyena products be legalized under Wajackoyah's government," Union's Secretary-General Miheso Mulembani said. Wajackoyah's manifesto consists of a 10-point plan, which he called the 'Freedom Manifesto'.