Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has appealed to Mt Kenya youth to support Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga for a better future. She said most of the negative things that have been peddled in the region about him are lies aimed at discrediting him. Chege said Raila's administration will empower youth by implementing a programme that will ensure they have a seven-year grace period after taking loans to start or boost their businesses. Youth, she said, do not need wheelbarrows and only need to be shown how they can empower yourselves. The Kenya Kwanza brigade has been issuing wheelbarrows as a way of helping the youth to start small businesses. The majority of youth in the region support Deputy President William Ruto, with some recently defecting to presidential candidate George Wajackoyah's Roots Party. Many have attributed their failure to support the government and Azimio coalition to the soaring cost of living that has condemned a large number to poverty. But Chege, a member of Azimio La Umoja One Kenya coalition council, said Azimio’s plans are to ensure youth are independent and no longer rely on handouts. “In the next five years, I want you people to be inviting me for tea when we meet in functions instead of asking for money because you have money in your pockets,” she told the youth on Saturday. Chege said Raila’s politics is not populist and the pledges he makes are practical. “We don’t want to be in opposition. We want to be where the national cake is being handled and that is in Azimio,” she said. Chege said Raila has been garnering a huge number of votes without the support of the Mt Kenya region and he is bound to win now that he has 30 per cent of the region behind him. She spoke while issuing dairy goats and piglets to women's groups from Murang’a county through the National Government Affirmative Action Fund. Eight of the groups received six dairy goats each, while two received four piglets each. Members of the groups will share the offspring until each member has a goat or a piglet. Matungulu MP Stephen Mule, who accompanied Chege, urged youth to stop being used by leaders to cause chaos in meetings. "If you don't like a certain candidate, stay at home. We want peaceful elections that will help us to move our country forward," he said.