Nelson Havi believes the stars are aligned in his favour to unseat Westlands MP Timothy Wanyonyi. He says he has the right political party, drive, strategy and ethnic arithmetic. Havi says his win is certain but alleges ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is colluding with his opponent to reduce his winning margin or, at worst, toss up the election. The constituency has 176,689 registered voters. The Star’s Gordon Osen caught up with the former president of Law Society of Kenya in his Parklands office for a chat. How has the campaign trail been now that you’ve been at it for close to a year? I officially started my ground engagements on May 24 last year. It is a tough experience because you have to be on the go almost all the time, waking up early, sleeping late and even thinking while asleep. I have been touring the area and the things people want done are doable and simple. By and large, my strategy is working, and that is why you see the incumbent following me everywhere I go. His schedule is predictable such that if I tour a given village or centre this week, he will do the same, follow the same routes next week. But I’m unpredictable and even my team is having problems managing me. I like it that way. What is the data telling you about the state of the Westlands race? The data is showing that we will have a very good night on August 9. It will be a comfortable win. I will get, at minimum, 62,000 votes if the turnout is below the average of 79 per cent. At maximum, we will garner more than 80,000 votes if the turnout is as past record or above. This will be a clean sweep because Tim Wanyonyi got 56,233 votes in the past election. He won with 42,558 votes in 2013. My approach in this campaign is to consume data as much as possible, and to remain focused on facts, not emotions. There is no way Tim Wanyonyi is going to beat me. You have been in the news lately appearing to antagonise ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Are you challenging him for the leadership of the Mulembe nation? Not at all. I gave an interview to the Nation and a small thing got blown out of proportion to get a good headline to sell their papers. Musalia is a man whom I have so much respect for due to his stature in our politics and seniority in our community. I was asked why I left ANC and that is what I was explaining. I ditched the party last November because it took money from me for life membership to make me their candidate in Westlands constituency and at the same time groom other candidates to run. So I noted they were planning to frustrate me. It was my party leader William Ruto who approached me and told me that I’m a competent leader who has a chance to win in Westlands. A fool does last what a wise man does first, and I consider myself a wise man. I moved on in November to avoid being locked out. Also, Musalia is too slow in making critical decisions and which I find frustrating. But more germane is the fact that even as we are in Kenya Kwanza, Musalia’s ANC is fielding a candidate against me. And on the ground, it is me the ANC candidate is hitting, while going soft on the ODM candidate.  In my campaign, I’m vouching for UDA candidates, six-piece suit. Have you raised these issues with your presidential candidate or at the Kenya Kwanza top brass? Also, now that Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula is brother to Tim Wanyonyi, has this also impacted your relationship with him? Ruto has full confidence in me and my ability to win. I also don't have any issues with Wetang'ula. In fact, he is my client and friend. Remember when they wanted to remove him [from the helm of his party], it was me who represented him. I also know that he does not control his brother Wanyonyi, and even if he were to be, I understand that Tim has a constitutional right to stand for elections. But the bigger context and the truth is that the coming of ANC and Ford Kenya upset our arrangement in UDA, much as it helped our presidential campaign. For example, right now I’m campaigning for Johnson Sakaja as our governor candidate, yet before they came, we had already hit the ground running with Bishop Margaret Wanjiru. With Sakaja, you see how the issues around his candidature are dragging us back. Even after joining Kenya Kwanza, they are refusing to let rational political strategy carry the day. They are fielding candidates even where UDA has a strong showing and as you know, the impact of that is eroding our chances of winning. This is unacceptable. Back to your bid, how are you striking the delicate balance not to be unnecessarily polarising and losing votes while at it? We are deliberate with our messaging and strategy. My message is that the current MP has wasted 10 years and the people of Westlands have got a raw deal. He gets Sh150 million from CDF but has no impact on the ground. [However, according to information on NGCDF board website, Westlands constituency has never received Sh150 million in annual allocation. It has been receiving approximately Sh137 million for the respective financial years starting 2019. This is the highest since the MP took office in 2013]. Most underdeveloped schools and infrastructure are in predominantly low-income areas of the constituency. In some schools, the MP has done renovative work, mostly painting and not substantive improvement. Let me be clear, I’m not saying renovation is wrong, I’m saying if it's done, let as much be said. To avoid polarisation, I’m asking for everybody’s vote irrespective of their ethnic extraction or who they support for president. If I go to a neighbourhood where I sense they are favouring UDA and our team, I forcefully come out with a six-piece message. I remain rational and sober in campaigning. But what happens if you don’t win, what will happen to Nelson Havi? Nelson Havi will sulk for about a month and get back to law. In fact, it is not getting back. As you can see, I just came from court, meaning that as I get to politics, I’m continuing with what I do best, legal combat. I share a lot in common with Rudy Giuliani, the [Donald] Trump lawyer who is famed for rough legal combat. I have 20 years’ experience in law and doing it is what I like. It will not be the first time I lose. I lost in 2018 in court when I debuted in running for LSK presidency. I also lost in the Nairobi branch chairmanship race where I had even used Sh25 million of my money campaigning. I sulked for two weeks and got on with life. This will not be an exception.