Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has claimed that he is well suited to debate with Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Speaking on Monday during campaigns in Nandi, Sudi said the Kenya Kwanza team had come to a conclusion that he should attend the presidential debates on behalf of his boss, William Ruto. He claimed that he was on the same academic level as Raila. "Kila mtu amekubaliana ya kwamba, Sudi aende afanye debate na Mzee.. Na niko na sababu ya kutosha. Si wanasema sikuenda shule, na si mnajua yule Mzee hakuenda shule? Sasa ako kwa rika yangu," he said. This loosely translates to, "Everyone has agreed that Sudi should go debate with Mzee.. And I have a good enough reason. They usually say I never went to school, and you know that Mzee never did either? So now we are on the same level." Sudi added that it would be unfair for someone who holds a doctorate degree to debate with someone like himself. "How can it be possible?" he posed. The legislator reiterated Ruto's claims that the Azimio team did not want to attend the debate on Tuesday because they lacked an agenda for the country. On Sunday, Azimio spokesperson Makau Mutua said the ODM leader might not be attending the debate, claiming it would be a bad idea to put him and Ruto, on the same stage. He also claimed that Ruto had requested no questions on integrity and corruption. "Our opponent has no regard for ethics, public morals or shame, that is why he has demanded that the debate not focus on corruption, integrity, ethic and governance- the key existential question that Kenya faces. These issues sit at the core of the Azimio campaign. Any debate devoid of these questions will be an insult to the intelligence of Kenyans," he said. On Friday, the Coalition secretary general Junet Mohamed hinted that the team might send in Babu Owino to debate on Raila's behalf. "Raila will on go to the debate if the topics of discussion are integrity, corruption and governance. If it is anything else, we will send MP Babu Owino," he said. This, according to Sudi, is part of the reason he was chosen to represent the DP. "I heard Junet Mohamed saying they will send that boy, Babu Owino. I want to tell him, I have talked to my boss here and he has allowed me."