Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is today (Wednesday) expected to know whether his name will be on the ballot for the Mombasa County gubernatorial contest or not. Last week Wednesday, a three-judge bench hearing Sonko’s petition against Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) said it will deliver its judgment on Friday, July 15. However, on Tuesday, the Mombasa High Court registrar issued a communication that the judgment had been rescheduled to Wednesday, July 13. “Take notice the above matter which was slated for judgment on July 15 has been rescheduled to Wednesday, July 13at 10 am in open court,” reads part of the communication. Judges Olga Sewe, Ann Ong'injo' and Stephen Githinji who were hearing the petition last week will deliver their judgment today. IEBC has already gazetted seven candidates for the Mombasa governor race; Abdulswamad Nassir (ODM), Hezron Awiti (VDP), Hassan Omar (UDA), and William Kingi (PAA), Daniel Kitsao (Independent), Shafii Makazi (Upia), and Said Abdhalla (Usawa). Sonko’s name and that of his running mate Ali Mbogo are missing in the gazette notice dated July 1. Sonko is suing IEBC for disqualifying him from the Mombasa race due to a gross violation of Article 75 of the Constitution, which led to his impeachment by the Senate in December 2020. On June 23, Sonko moved to court to stop the Wiper Party from submitting the names of other candidates and at the same time stop IEBC from gazetting and printing the ballots for the Mombasa governor race, until his petition is heard and determined. However, on June 24, Mombasa High Court Judge Olga Sewe declined to issue conservatory orders to stop IEBC from proceeding with the gazettement and printing of ballot papers. Sewe forwarded the file to Chief Justice Martha Koome to empanel a bench that will hear the petition to its logical conclusion. Koome named a three-judge bench, consisting of Sewe, Ong'injo' and Githinji. Last week Monday, the three-judge bench issued the interim orders against IEBC to stop gazettement and printing of ballot papers, pending a petition filed by Sonko. However, during the Monday afternoon session, IEBC lawyer Mukele told the court they are in dilemma following the orders that had been issued in the morning. “We are in a dilemma because on June 24 Wiper party sent a letter that they have nominated Ali Menza Mbogo as the governor candidate for Mombasa and Mike Sonko as his deputy,” said Mukele. “On June 30, the IEBC had already gazetted all the names of the governor candidates countrywide and by July 1, the names of the candidates had been sent to the government printer.” Mukele said that based on the commercial agreements, the ballot papers were by that time being printed for all the candidates countrywide. However, the High Court on Wednesday refused to review the conservatory orders issued on Monday that barred IEBC from gazetting and printing ballot papers for Mombasa. During the last court session before the judges adjourned to prepare their judgment, lawyers representing Sonko and those of the Wiper Party argued that the IEBC Disputes Resolutions Committee (DRC) erred by disqualifying the former governor from vying for the gubernatorial seat of Mombasa. They pleaded with the judges to allow Sonko to vie, even as the legal counsel of IEBC and the DRC fought back to prove once again that Sonko is not qualified to run for the seat. Sonko's legal team was led by Wilfred Nyamu, while IEBC and the Mombasa County Returning Officer (CRO) were represented by Edwin Mukele. Eunice Lumallas was leading the Wiper Democratic Movement Party's legal front. Nyamu argued that Sonko had met with many unnecessary and malicious legal obstacles in his quest to vie to be the governor of Mombasa, and asked the court to grant him and Mombasa residents a chance to practice their constitutional rights. Dr John Khaminwa, Sonko's other legal mind, persuaded the court to allow his client to run for the governor position, based on the universal tenets of law, which he presented in court. Khaminwa argued based on the principle of democracy and said that locking out Sonko would mean that the court is frustrating democracy. Further, the counsel said that a university degree is not very necessary for one to vie for an elective post, even though in this case, his client had one. "The degree is not even necessary. Sir Winston Churchill, Jesus Christ and Prophet Muhammad didn't have any degree yet they were excellent leaders," Khaminwa said. "The members of the first cabinet of independent Kenya also didn't have university degrees, but they performed much better than those who have the so-called degrees." Khaminwa also wondered why IEBC was blowing hot and cold, by saying Sonko was not qualified to vie for the governor seat but is qualified to be a deputy governor.