Detectives arrested a suspected serial killer behind the murders that have rocked Nakuru North area of Mawanga and its environs in recent days. Evans Michori Kebwaro was smoked out of his hideout Thursday afternoon in Keroka, Kisii County, where he had gone into hiding immediately after detectives launched his manhunt. He later revealed five of his accomplices; Julius Otieno, 27, Josphat Simiyu, 24, Dennis Mmbolo, 25, Isaac Kinyanjui, 18, and Makhoha Wanjala, 25, all of whom have been rounded up in a stealth operation conducted in Nakuru by a specialized team of detectives. The team from Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau augmented by their Special Services Unit (SSU) counterparts arrested the mastermind whom they have since established is a jailbird with a criminal history. The arrests come after a high-powered security meeting that was held in Nakuru led by the cabinet secretary for Interior Dr Fred Matiang’i, following a presidential order. Preliminary investigations indicate that Kebwaro is responsible for at least three murders committed within Mawanga area and its environs, which followed a similar modus operandi and were reported at Kiugoine police station between June 15 and 24, this year. All the murders targeted women and were committed during the day, with the victims’ bodies being found in the bedroom after being set ablaze. The probe indicates that the bloodthirsty killer would first rape the victims before strangling them and setting their lifeless bodies on fire under a heap of clothes. On June 14, in Kiamaina, Nakuru North Sub County, Grace Wanjiku, 20, was found burnt beyond recognition under a heap of bedding in a house that had been razed down by a huge fire. Attempts by first responders to extinguish the fire proved futile, until fire engines from the Nakuru City County arrived. A week later, Susan Wambui, was found dead in her bedroom at a house in Kiamaina after neighbours put off a fire that had engulfed the entire house at around 4pm. Luckily, her three year-old baby was rescued from the rubble. In the latest murder incident, a 23-year-old woman identified as Diana Opicho was found murdered in cold blood in the same area of Mawanga, with her lifeless body sprawled on the floor of the house. Her murder sparked online outrage, with Nakuru residents calling for action from the government to bring to an end the senseless murders. Detectives said the suspect managed to cover his steps over a period of time, giving local police who were tracking him a difficult time. In 24 hours, the sleuths had analysed all the scenes of the previous murders, identified the mastermind and launched a manhunt leading to his arrest, 182 kilometres away in Keroka, Kisii County. He has reportedly confessed to killing seven people in cold blood and so far, detectives have managed to place him at the scene of three murders. The six suspects were Friday transported to DCI headquarters for a more comprehensive forensic examination. As part of efforts to address the menace, Nairobi’s Kasarani OCPD Peter Mwanzo was promoted to the rank of Commissioner of Police and transferred to Nakuru and named the County Police Commander replacing Beatrice Kiraguri who moved to Nairobi as deputy commander. A security operation ordered in the area led to the arrest of 128 people suspected to be members of the gang. Police seized 436 mobile phones, 40 laptops, 61 knives, six swords, 15 pangas, 3,367 rolls of bangs, more than one kilogram of unprocessed bhang and sachets of heroin. They also confiscated Army and National Youth Service uniforms, toy guns and 10 unclaimed motorbikes suspected to have been used by the gang in their criminal activities. So far two lawmakers have recorded statements with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in Nakuru. The MPs David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East) and Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West) – were grilled over the issue. Ends