National team head coach Zakayo Masha has expressed confidence in the prospects of Kenyan budding judokas to thrive on the international stage following their exemplary show at the African Cadet Championships on Thursday. Speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing continental showpieces at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Indoor Arena, Masha said he felt satisfied with the exploits of his budding charges against rival countries. Masha was among hundreds of Kenyans who watched gleefully as the Kenyan charges gallantly flexed muscles with their foreign counterparts. “They performed really well considering it's actually the first time most of them are gracing the international stage and I believe in their capacity to perform even better in the future,” Masha said. “Obviously, they experienced some stage fright given most of them are coming up against foreign opponents for the first time. However, I'm glad they managed to overcome it.” Kenyan David Katana Baya was the toast of the East African nation, settling for a silver medal after crashing to Egyptian Mohamed Ramadan Said in the 55kg finals. Baya was militant right from the onset as his remarkable display of prowess sent the stands ecstatic. Abdulrahman Gobwe clinched bronze in the -50kg category with Martha Dama achieving a similar feat in the -52 category. Masha thanked the government for its continued support and urged more Kenyans to turn up in large numbers on Friday in order to light up the stands. “We are expecting more Kenyan fans at Kasarani in the coming days. Our judokas need your support to perform even better,” he said. Egypt dominated Thursday's proceedings on a day that the country's national anthem reigned supreme. The north African country bagged gold in the - 55kg, - 52kg as well as the - 73kg. The Kenyan team enjoys the biggest share of participants at 65. Judokas drawn from more than 20 countries are in Kenya for the two continental showpieces. Mozambique, Burundi, Comoros, Angola, Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, and Morocco were among the countries that arrived in the country on Tuesday night just hours after the arrival of Egypt and South Africa who were the first two teams to land in Kenya. All the participants are being hosted at the Movenpick hotel at Westlands Nairobi for the entire duration of the event. A total of 116 judokas from 16 countries will grace the two-day Africa Junior Championships that begin on Friday after the Cadet Championships. The two events are a precursor to the 2022 Conakry Junior African Cup set for September 25. The program rolled out with a referee and coaches seminar on Wednesday, where 20 referees benefitted from the day-long seminar conducted by educators from Egypt and Senegal at the Movenpick hotel in Nairobi.