Two police officers on Thursday told a Nairobi court that on the night of Sharon Otieno's murder, Migori Governor Okoth Obado's aide made a report at Uriri police station claiming he was a victim of abduction. The aide- Michael Oyamo-claimed to have been abducted by three men after meeting Sharon in Rongo. One of the officers told the court he doubted Oyamo's abduction report because the details were not adding up. Obado, his aides Oyamo and Caspal Obiero are on trial for the murder of Sharon and her unborn baby. Particulars of the offence indicate that between September 3-4, 2018, at Owade in Rachuonyo, Homa Bay county, jointly with others not before the court, they murdered the two. Sharon’s body was found on September 4 in a thicket near Oyugis town. Officer Howard Omwoha on Thursday told trial judge Cecilia Githua that on September 4, the deputy administration police commander identified as Ojwang’ came to the reporting office in the company of Oyamo. The administration police commander, who is now deceased, introduced Oyamo as Obado’s personal assistant. Ojwang told officer Omuoha that Oyamo had a sensitive report to make and it should be recorded in the Occurrence Book. It is at this juncture that Oyamo started giving details of his abduction. He told Omuoha that on that night, he went to Rongo to meet Sharon, whom he claimed to be his girlfriend. “He told me he was meeting with his girlfriend at Treat House hotel in Rongo but Sharon called him requesting they change the venue to Graca hotel,”  the witness said. According to the officer, Oyamo had some differences with Sharon. The purpose of the meeting was to iron out their issues. Oyamo proceeded to tell the officer that Sharon was pregnant for him and that she wanted Sh600,000 to furnish her house. She also wanted another Sh240,000 for monthly upkeep. However, DNA results have proved that the unborn male child was Obado’s. It was a 28-week-old foetus at the time it met its death. Oyamo and Sharon met that night. He found Sharon in the company of another man. They were having drinks but because Oyamo felt Graca was not suitable for him, he suggested they relocate to Treat House hotel. “A taxi came but before they could leave, Oyamo said he gave Sharon  Sh100,000 to cater for the drinks. They later boarded the taxi that was parked within the hotel compound,” the witness said. According to Oyamo’s report, there were three men in the taxi but he still boarded the vehicle in the company of Sharon and another man. He didn’t mention who the people in the taxi were but the taxi driver allegedly drove about 200 metres, pulled off on the left side of the road and ordered Oyamo out. All this while, there was a Toyota Axio that was trailing them. Oyamo was ordered to board it while Sharon was left in the other car. “Oyamo told me the men in the Axio were torturing him. They beat him and demanded Sh1.5 million. They had knives but did not use them," the witness said while recounting Oyamo’s report. "Oyamo became unconscious and found himself in the streets of  Kisii the following morning." Oyamo told the officer that members of the public took him to a hospital in Kisii. But a medic who has since testified in the case confessed to having forged medical records for Oyamo to lie that he had been attacked by unknown people on the night Sharon was murdered. Cliff Momanyi who works at Kisii Teaching referral Hospital filled in medical documents showing Oyamo displayed features of strangulation without examining him. Another officer who testified in the case on Thursday told the judge that Oyamo’s kidnapping report was not adding up. He said he doubted his report because it was inconsistent. Philemon Isiepai currently stationed at Keroka was the officer in charge of crime at Uriri when the murder incident occurred. When Oyamo came to the station,  Isiepai asked him “You have come all the way from Kisii to Uriri and you have not reported your abduction report to any nearby station?” Oyamo, according to the witness, kept quiet. Isiepai later received a call from the OCPD. He proceeded to his office and the OCPD showed him a text from his WhatsApp line. It was a signal drafting. A kidnapping report was made from Kadel police station by a journalist. The journalist, according to Isiepai, reported how he was abducted from Rongo and that Oyamo was the last person with him. Oyamo was subsequently booked for the offence of kidnapping. The hearing continues next week Thursday. (Edited by Tabnacha O)