Matatu Owners Association has bashed the government for banning matatus from using the Nairobi Expressway. The association led by its chairman Simon Kimutai has referred to the move as unfair and biased. “It was very unfair for the government to ban matatus from using the expressway yet the sector is not to blame for all accidents,” Kimutai said. Transport and Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia early this week temporarily banned Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) carrying more than seven passengers from using Nairobi Expressway. The measures were announced by the government following a road accident involving an Embassava Sacco bus at Mlolongo toll station. Last  Monday night’s accident came just a week after another one that claimed one life and left others nursing injuries. In both accidents, vehicles sped into the toll gate at Mlolongo entry, smashing into others on the line. The accidents raised safety concerns on the expressway that was commissioned last month for trials. The MOA boss explained to Star on Saturday that apart from the Embassava accident, the rest were caused by personal vehicles. “Let's be fair and not blame matatus for every problem faced on roads.,” Kimutai said. The MOA boss added that matatus using the expressway had decongested the old Waiyaki- Uhuru Highway- Mombasa Road which resulted to ease of traffic flow. Also this week, an accident involving a Super Metro bus occurred at the entrance of the Nairobi Expressway at Westlands. Following the accident, the Super Metro Sacco management, whose 33-seater matatus ply various areas around the capital, absolved itself from blame, saying the accident was not caused by its bus but by another speeding vehicle. In a statement to newsrooms, the Super Metro management blamed the carelessness of the other motorist which they say led their matatu driver to clash while trying to avoid a direct collision. “One of our fleets hit a guard rail while evading hitting another personal vehicle (Prado) which was speeding as it tried to join the Expressway from the opposite direction leading to the accident,” the company said in a statement post on Facebook. “Several passengers were left with scores of injuries including the conductor and were rushed to the hospital. The information is with the Kenya Police, NTSA, the Expressway CCTV and KENHA.” At the same time, the management regretted the incident as it implored motorists and other road users to stay alert in order to curb road accidents. Last month, Moja Expressway, the parent company managing the Nairobi Expressway revealed that PSVs will be allowed to use the road on the condition that they do not pick up or drop off passengers along the 27- kilometre stretch. Moja explained that the move will prevent the occurrence of traffic jams on the elevated road. Buses and matatus which opted to use the expressway were charging commuters an extra Sh20 or Sh30 depending on the distance covered.