It is a criminal offence to record someone without his permission, Lawyer Miguna Miguna has said. His statement comes hot on the heels of debate surrounding an audio recording alleged to be that of Deputy President William Ruto. Miguna weighed in on the matter and said it is illegal to capture someone's private speech without their consent. "It is actually a criminal offence to tape/audio/video record anyone without their consent. That's the law. Therefore, those who surreptitiously recorded William Ruto broke the law. We cannot build a country governed by the rule of law if we tolerate illegal acts," the tweet read. Miguna was talking in reference to the audio clip played in public by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed on Sunday during a campaign rally. The audio was alleged to be of Ruto saying he almost slapped President Uhuru Kenyatta. Junet appeared to confirm a media report that the DP indeed said he almost slapped  Uhuru. In the clip, Ruto is talking about intrigues that surrounded the annulment of the 2017 presidential election. The DP said after the 2017 polls were annulled, President Uhuru was almost quitting the fight for the presidency. He claimed, in the audio clip, that Uhuru had in fact told him to let go of their presidency bid. "Uhuru started showing signs of giving up. He told me he wants to go to Ichaweri. He told me that we quit the fight for the presidency. I looked at him and told him, you, it is because of respect but I would have slapped him." Ruto in his defence explained the circumstances that led to his remarks in the leaked audio, where he talks about how he almost slapped Uhuru. The DP said that there was no way he was going to let Raila Odinga take the presidency away from Uhuru. "Even if I forced Uhuru Kenyatta to be President, is there a problem? Azimio supporters should stop this nonsense. They are spreading a recording saying that Ruto forced Uhuru to be president. If you were me, would you have accepted Uhuru to abandon us with the way we had pushed him?" he asked.