Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate William Ruto is now on the receiving end of attacks by Azimio Coalition over reports that he almost slapped President Uhuru Kenyatta. A report by Nation said the DP admitted to almost slapping the President after he almost quit following the annulment of his 2017 election win by the Supreme court. Speaking on Sunday during a campaign rally at Oyugis, Homa Bay, the County Woman Rep Gladys Wanga said the nation is now finally getting to see the real face of Ruto. "Sisi (Homa Bay electorates) tunajua sasa Ruto wa ukweli ni nani. Yule mtu ambaye akona impuntiy mpaka anataka kupiga rais wa Kenya kofi," she said. This is loosely translated to, "We now know who the real Ruto is. Someone with so much impunity to a point that he wants to slap the Kenyan President." Former Gatanga M Peter Kenneth pointed out that the UDA leader has been lying that his friendship with Uhuru went sideways after the 2018 handshake. "He wanted to slap Uhuru in 2017. So that means that they were on bad terms then. The rest of the things he is saying are pure lies," he added. The Azimio secretary General Junet Mohamed on his part chided Ruto labelling him as unfit. "The office of the president is the highest office and deserves to be honoured. Now, Ruto if you are disrespecting it, how are Kenyans supposed to give it to you?" he posed. He added: "I have been shocked to read in the local dailies that Ruto said he almost slapped his boss. Homa Bay, can you vote for such a man? This is a clear indication that he is a dictator, he is disrespectful and not fit to lead Kenya." Junet told Ruto to respect Uhuru, adding that the President knew who is and opted for a handshake deal with ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto was speaking to Kiambu elders at his Karen residence on Friday when he revealed that he restrained himself from slapping Ruto because of respect. "I looked at him and told him I would have slapped him were it not for the respect I had for him. I asked him how could just give up".