Road users in Kiambu county have been advised to be careful as foggy conditions are expected in some parts of the county. Residents have also been advised to dress warmly to avoid contracting diseases related to cold weather that is currently being experienced not only in the county but nationally. The last one week has seen Kiambu experiencing early morning showers and drizzles making the roads wet, with temperatures falling to as low as 12 degrees. While giving the weekly forecast for the country, Kiambu county director for Meteorological Services Dr Magdalene Gateri said foggy, cold and cloudy conditions were expected over most days. She, however, added that other areas might experience sunny intervals. “Chances of light rains are expected over few days, but the intensity of the rain might increase, especially on Monday next week the July 18,” she said. Gateri said most places on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday would experience fogginess but give way to sunny intervals in the afternoons while evenings would have few low clouds. On Saturday morning, the county will also experience foggy and cloudy conditions and the afternoon will be partly cloudy with chances of light rain showers while the night will be partly cloudy. On Sunday, foggy and cloudy conditions will be experienced in the morning over most places while afternoon and night will be partly cloudy. Kenya Meteorological Department weekly forecast said most parts of the country are likely to continue being dry, with temperatures remaining moderate with an exception of northwestern Kenya which will experience highs of 20 degrees celsius to 35 degrees celsius. The July 2022 weather outlook in the country shows that the highlands west of the Rift Valley, Lake Victoria Basin, Central and Southern Rift Valley are likely to receive near average rainfall while the northwestern region is likely to receive slightly above average rainfall. The director has urged communities to always harvest water whenever it rains and also use sparingly any water that is available.  (edited by Amol Awuor)