President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Monday officially open Uhuru Gardens to the public after the completion of renovations. In his capacity as the Commander in chief of the Defence Forces, he will also hand back the gardens to the government. The Steering Committee of Uhuru Gardens and National Monument and Museum oversaw the work which started back in 2020. On May 31, 2022, ahead of his last Madaraka Day celebrations of his presidency,  Uhuru commissioned the Mashujaa state-of-the-art Uhuru Gardens National Monument and Museum. However, not all sections had been completed with renovations still happening after. Addressing the nation during last year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations at Uhuru Gardens, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that the facility will be accessible to the public free of charge. The iconic Uhuru Gardens has hosted two national day celebrations; Jamhuri on December 12, 2021, and Madaraka Day on June 1, 2022, which were Uhuru’s last national celebrations before leaving office after next month’s general elections. Uhuru Gardens will act as an archive of Kenya’s history since 1800. The museum includes a Hall of Legends, which will showcase the lives of Kenya’s legendary ancestors, including Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, Mekatilili wa Menza, Koitalel arap Samoei, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Nabongo Mumia among others The museum directors said they had collected 12,300 artefacts from different parts of the country showcased at the museum. There is also a Tunnel of Martyrs, as a memorial to Kenyans who lost their lives during the country’s darkest moments. Their names are placed on the sidewalls of the tunnel. The martyrs will range from the first to second World War all the way to the victims of the post-election violence of 2007-2008. In the Rope Gallery of the museum, a named rope will be dedicated to every one of the 1,090 heroic souls that were hanged during the colonial era. There will be a moment of Darkness Gallery, where Kenya’s lowest moments will be displayed. The Museum’s Hall of Innovation will celebrate the brilliant and game-changing ideas produced by Kenyans. This Hall is meant to speak about the coming future and how our past has guided it. While commissioning the gardens in May, President Uhuru had the privilege to light the torch of eternity. The flame will remain on to commemorate the lives of all the warriors who fought for Kenya's liberation.