Azimio presidential hopeful Raila Odinga made a strong pitch for Nairobi’s 2.41 million votes as he concludes a two-day onslaught at the capital city. The former Prime Minister accompanied by his running mate Martha Karua exuded confidence of defeating Deputy President William Ruto in the next month’s polls. He made a strong case for Azimio candidates, urging city residents not to make him a king without foot soldiers to drive his legislative agenda in both the bicameral Parliament and county assemblies. Raila told supporters to turn out in numbers and vote for the coalition’s candidates from MCAs, MPs, senators, woman representatives and governors. The Azimio chief said he is exposed to impeachment with less MPs in Parliament, adding that he will be serving at the mercy of the opponents. "It is not proper to make me president without my team. My enemies  will crush me," Raila said. The Azimio candidate likened next month’s polls to 1963 and 2002 elections that brought independence and new constitution respectively. “This election is important because it will bring economic liberation to Kenyans,” he said. Raila at the same time reiterated his commitment to deal with high cost of living that has pushed millions of Kenyans to the edge. The former Prime Minister addressed rallies at various parts of the city, including Kibra, Lang'ata, Embakasi South, Ruaraka, Mathare Roysambu and Kasarani constituencies. Together with running mate Martha Karua, Raila also toured Embakasi Central, where they addressed supporters at the Rally Calvary Grounds. Also in Raila’s entourage included Polycarp Igathe (gubernatorial candidate), Edwin Sifuna (senatorial candidate), Esther Passaris (Woman Representative) and a host of sitting Azimio MPs and coalitions candidates. Karua said the Azimio administration will not tolerate corruption and nobody will be indispensable in the anti-corruption war. “For us to realise our campaign pledges, we must be firm in dealing with the corrupt and safeguard public resources,” Karua said. In Kibra, the ODM boss prevailed upon incumbent, MP Imran Okoth, to withdraw from the race and support ODM candidate Peter Orero. “I want to tell Imran to withdraw from the race and support Mwalimu Orero. All these are my people,” Raila said. Imran, who succeeded his brother Ken Okoth in 2019 by-elections, lost the ODM ticket to Orero, a high school teacher, and has since defied the party calls and is seeking to defend the seat on independent ticket. Raila also vowed the Orange party will reclaim the Lang'ata parliamentary seat currently held by Nixon Korir of UDA. “I want to see the whole of Lang'ata back to Azimio. I want Jalang'o (Felix Odiwuor) on the other side and Mwalimu Orero on the other,” he said. Raila reiterated his commitment to rollout the Babacare health insurance scheme. He said the scheme will ensure millions of vulnerable Kenyans have access to health services and implement the Sh6,000 monthly social protection stipend in his first 100 days in office.  (edited by Amol Awuor)