Former Africa Zone 3 gold medalist, Elly Ajowi, has conceded he is smarting from devastation after being excluded from the Birmingham-bound national boxing team. Ajowi, 38, had been fancied to make the cut after a sublime run in recent months which saw him comprise the Kenyan quartet to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. In an exclusive interview on Wednesday, Ajowi disclosed how he almost sank into depression upon realising he wasn't part of the eight-member provisional squad summoned to camp by Hit Squad head coach Benjamin Musa. “I felt downcast when it became clear I had been left out of the squad but I have since learned to cope with the situation and move on,” Ajowi said. The seasoned pugilist has called out the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK), saying their contentious decision to limit the number of boxers merely served to kill many dreams. “I don't think it's fair for NOCK to limit the number of traveling boxers to four. They are merely discouraging Kenyan boxers," he said. "I'm not reacting this way because I wasn't given a chance. The truth is that we have some brilliant boxers in the country such as Boniface Mugunde and David Karanja, who deserve to be part of the traveling party, yet they have been left out." Ajowi sent a passionate plea to the government to consider plunging more resources into boxing. “It's high time the government thought it important to invest more in the sport given its capacity to earn the country more medals at major global competitions. Boxing is an individual sport and so the more boxers there are in the team, the better the country's prospects of winning medals," he observed. “Games like rugby and volleyball can only earn the country a single medal despite the high number of participants in the team,” Ajowi said. Ajowi said he has now shelved his plan to quit boxing after the setback and will sit down with family and friends to seek advice on the way forward. He said his wife Raphline Adulo has been particularly influential in the decisions he has made in his stellar boxing career spanning over a decade. “I'll sit down with my wife to discuss my future. Whatever we agree upon is what I'll implement. I respect her opinion because she does a lot in terms of making the atmosphere conducive for me at home," Ajowi added. “She prepares meals on time and takes care of the children when I'm not around. She is, therefore, part and parcel of my boxing career.”