Revelations that Deputy President William Ruto almost slapped President Uhuru Kenyatta continues to draw reactions from the political class as the campaign season enters fever pitch. Azimio presidential candidate Martha Karua has weighed in on the matter and called for decorum in the manner in which leaders choose to correct their counterparts. "Sisemi mtu asikosoe mwenzake lakini mkosoe kwa heshima (I'm not saying you shouldn't correct colleagues, but do it respectfully)," Karua said. Karua spoke on Tuesday during an Azimio campaign stop over at Chaka in Kieni Constituency, Nyeri county. "Kama wewe ni deputy, usijifanye mkubwa kuliko mkubwa wako (If you are a deputy, don't usurp your boss's roles)," she added. An audio clip emerged on Sunday in which the DP is heard giving an account of how he almost slapped Uhuru in 2017 soon after the Supreme Court nullified their win. Ruto said respect held him back from slapping the president for suggesting that he was not willing to take part in the repeat election, painting the picture of a leader that is easily provoked. "Na hatutaki mtu wa hasira. Kama uko na hasira tukupee muda upunguze hasira (And we don't want an angry leader. If you have anger issues, we will give you time for your anger to subside)," Karua said. Nyeri is the first of four counties the Azimio team is scheduled to hold a five-day campaign marathon until Saturday. The caravan will on Wednesday be in Kiambu county before heading to Kirinyaga on Thursday and wrap up the campaign tour in Kakamega county on Friday and Saturday. With just 34 days to the August 9 general election, both Azimio and their Kenya Kwanza opponents are in a last-ditch rush to woo voters ahead of the titanic battle at the ballot box. UDA presidential candidate William Ruto is leading the Kenya Kwanza vote hunt in Isiolo and Marsabit counties together with his running mate Rigathi Gachagua after holding campaigns in Meru county on Monday. Latest polls indicate that the race between Raila and Ruto is close in Nairobi. The survey by Radio Africa shows that Raila is in the lead with 50 percent support against Ruto's 41 percent. In June, the poll showed that Raila enjoyed 52 percent support in Nairobi compared to 29.1 percent for Ruto.