Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu  has called for the investigation of  suspicious suppliers at City Hall. The revelation of the suspicious accounts came to light following a cabinet reshuffle that saw a change in the chief officer for finance. “I have directed the commencement of investigations into the persons involved and we are currently cooperating with the relevant authorities to ensure all those involved are brought to book,” Kananu stated. Earlier this week, the Governor, through Executive Order No. 3 of 2022, reorganized her cabinet which saw the removal of Mohamed Sahal as Finance chief officer being replaced by Joseph Gathiaka, who is still the head of Treasury at City Hall. The Governor revealed that since the reshuffle, various ‘suspicious’ issues have emerged at City Hall that require investigation to determine accountability. "Since the reshuffle was implemented, numerous cases of suspicious suppliers and accounts have been exposed confirming my worst fears of systemic malpractices within sections of the county administration,” Kananu added. Defending the reshuffle, the county boss said it was her personal decision to minimize waste and optimize county finances by reducing redundant and unfulfilled county administration expenditure. Following the reshuffle, the change meant that withdrawal rights at CBK had to be changed from Sahal to Gathiaka which was facilitated by Finance executive Allan Igambi. However, he later reversed the decision and wrote again to the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) retracting his original request to withdraw Sahal's rights. “We have today submitted withdrawal rights for Mohamed Abdi Sahal to your esteemed office. After considering  internal logistical and administrative challenges we will face with this change, we would like to recall the forms and maintain status quo,” reads the letter addressed to the director of Banking Division at CBK. The person holding the withdrawal rights must be recognised by CBK in order for the county to receive any released funds. With the confusion of who between Gathiaka and Sahal has withdrawal rights, it is likely that City Hall will face a financial crisis. Despite the CEC’s reversal request, Kananu said the decision to reshuffle her cabinet still stands, arguing that she will continue to fight the war on  corruption which requires selfless commitment . “I also want to strongly affirm that the reshuffle remains firmly in effect and I will not  allow the haze of the upcoming elections to be a cover for those who wish to reap where they have not sowed,” she argued. In addition, Governor Kananu urged Nairobi residents and county staff to report any instance of corruption or malpractice to the relevant authorities.