Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has criticised Azimio leaders for attacking IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati ahead of the August 9 polls. He said Chebukati should ignore his critics and instead focus on his job and ensure his commission effectively delivers on the election. “I want to tell Chebukati, close your ears and do your job. Those others have started attacking you. They have started throwing stones because they have sensed defeat,” Mutua said. He spoke during a Kamba community meeting at Eastleigh High School in Kamkunji, Nairobi on Monday. The meeting attended by more than 2,000 Kambas living in Kamkunji subcounty was convened to rally support for Nairobi UDA candidates. They included Kamkunji MP candidate Robow Mohamed Hassan, Nairobi woman representative candidate Millicent Omanga and governor candidate Johnson Sakaja. Omanga attended the meeting convened by Robow, while Sakaja was campaigned for in absentia. The politicians also drummed support for Deputy President William Ruto’s presidency and his bottom-up economic model. Mutua urged the Kamba community to vote change in Nairobi by electing Robow, Omanga, Sakaja and UDA MCAs in the coming polls. “I’m telling Chebukati, you have the protection of Constitution, and people of Kenya trust you. Don’t listen to those people who have started making noise because ODM and ‘those people’ have sensed defeat,” he said. The Maendeleo Chap Chap leader told Kamkunji constituents that they will be in safe hands if they elect Robow as their next MP. Kamba elders coroneted both Robow and Omanga as the community’s son and daughter respectively. “We have given you a new Kamba name, Muthiani, you are our son. Go to parliament and bring us development,” an elder told Robow during the coronation. Robow was also issued with a bow and arrows to ‘go and hunt’ not only for the Kamba community, but all Kamkunji constituents. The Kamba nation endorsed both Robow and Omanga for parliamentary and woman representative seats respectively. The two thanked the community for coronating them as their own alongside endorsing them for the positions ahead of the August polls. “I thank the Kamba community for endorsing my candidature. I also thank the elders for coronating me as their own son. This indicates they have confidence in me,” Robow said. He promised residents of an inclusive leadership if elected as Kamkunji MP. The candidate prided on his experience having served as an MCA for 15 years. Robow is a sitting MCA in Mandera, he first served as a councilor in Nairobi’s Eastleigh between 2007 and 2012 before he was elected in Mandera in 2013 and re – elected in 2017. While criticising the incumbent Yusuf Hassan, Robow promised to improve the residents’ livelihoods through viable development projects in education, infrastructure, employment, healthcare and entrepreneurship. Robow said Hassan, 77, has no development track record to show, having served the constituency for 13 years. Omanga said she was born, raised and educated in Nairobi. “I urge youth, women and men including the elderly to vote me in on August 9, let’s walk this journey together. "I am your own, born and raised in Kamkunji constituency. I went to Pangani Girls before joining the University of Nairobi,” she said. Omanga said Nairobi received Sh120 million annually and more than Sh600 million National Affirmative Action Funds over the last years, but there is nothing tangible to show. “The money has been going into individuals’ pockets while women are suffering. It hasn’t been getting to the ground, hence lots of vulnerability,” she said. The candidate said high inflation has made life unbearable in Kenya hence the need for change in leadership. She urged residents to vote in Robow as their MP, Sakaja as their governor and Ruto for presidency alongside UDA MCAs in Nairobi. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)