Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Speaker Sammy Ruwa on Wednesday put aside their political differences and had a hearty talk before heading to the assembly chambers for the last session. The two have not been on good talking terms after Mvurya backed his deputy Fatma Achani as his successor. Ruwa is also eyeing the governor’s seat. Insiders said Mvurya held a lengthy talk with Ruwa at the speaker’s office. Mvurya made his ninth State of the County Address during the last session before the county assembly adjourned. After the address, Mvurya and Ruwa walked together to the dining area where they had breakfast at the same table. During the session, some MCAs questioned why Mvurya was not accompanied by Achani. “I am concerned by the deputy governor’s absence, the county assembly and the governor's office are constitutional,” Ramisi MCA Raia Mkungu said. Ruwa said the MCAs cannot ask any questions during the address and anything else should be discussed in another sitting. “As you complete your term, it is my sincere gratitude that all wishes come true and God opens the door for you as you venture into national politics to continue serving Kenyans,” he said. Ruwa's words surprised many who thought that their political bad blood would deepen into personal hatred. During and after the assembly session both two leaders appreciated one another saying the cooperation between the two arms of government is responsible for the milestones achieved in the development agenda. “I wish to congratulate and thank those that have served with me in the two terms, your work and legacy will endure for decades to come,” Mvurya said. Speaking in an interview Ruwa said the executive worked well with the county assembly to help the governor deliver his promises to the Kwale people. Ruwa said he is honoured that the governor realised and recognised the role of the assembly in the oversight work and implementation of his agendas. “Our responsibility was to understand the governor's manifesto and to enable him through budget making and laws. We are grateful that he admits, we effectively helped him to deliver his promises,” he said. Six candidates have been cleared by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to vie for the Kwale governor seat. They are Ruwa (Independent), Achani (UDA), Chirau Ali Mwakwere (Wiper), Hamadi Boga (ODM), and Lung'anzi Chai (PAA) and Gereza Dena (Kanu). Ruwa and Mwakwere are vying for the second time. Dena is making a third attempt, whereas Boga, Chai, and Achani are making their first attempt.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris