More than 500, 0000 youth engaged under the kazi kwa vijana program will have to wait a little longer to get their pay due to financial constraints. The first cohort was enrolled some two months ago with the Interior principal secretary Karanja Kibicho saying the government planning to spend Sh5bn on the program. Youth engaged under the National hygiene initiative take part in labour-intensive activities which include cleaning up trading centers and construction of projects funded by the government at a daily wage of Sh450. On Tuesday, Housing and urban planning Principal Secretary Charles Hinga, however, stated that the funds would delay citing “financial year-end administration challenges.” “To all cohorts one Kazi mtaani youth, apologies for the delay, we are processing your payment; every effort is being made to pay you. It might be delayed a bit but as always we shall make good your payment,” he wrote on his page. He went on, “Ordinarily, the government pays 30 days after services are rendered. We had a special dispensation for Kazi Mtaani owing to the fact it was addressing serious vulnerabilities”. Hinga also lashed out at some Kenya Kwanza leaders over their assertions the state was underpaying the youth at Sh450 down from Sh1,000 per day. Deputy President William Ruto, and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua, are among those who raised their concerns saying the youth were being underpaid that the government had diverted funds to campaigns. The principal secretary claimed the MPs slashed the budgetary allocation from the initial Sh10 billion to Sh2.5 billion. “What they did was to cut what the President promised the youths during last year’s Mashujaa Day. Most of you don’t think politics matter, but if someone is willing to play politics with your livelihood then 9/8/22 you have the power to hire or fire them,” he further stated. He added, “The MPs and politicians from the comfort of their car rooftops that told you they increased Kazi Mtaani pay from Sh455 to Sh 1000 are extremely irresponsible & are playing politics with you. Parliamentary transactions are captured on Hansard, ask them for proof of this increase”.