Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah has pledged to institute a military tribunal to probe and kill the murderers of former electoral agency ICT manager Chris Msando. Msando, who hailed from Ugenya, Siaya county, was allegedly abducted and found murdered a few days before the 2017 general election. Commentators believe his death was as a result of the job he was doing at the IEBC. Wajackoyah, who was speaking at a campaign rally in Siaya town, said  it is time justice is served to families that have lost their loved ones across time. “I will change the constitution and constitute a military tribunal,” he said. The Roots Party candidate also said the tribunal shall be chaired by military personnel and deputised by a figure from the police. Wajackoyah said Luos have lost so many of its brainy sons to a point where members of the community are almost giving up in the fight for what is right. Some of the fallen sons that he counted included Msando, Tom Mboya, Argwings Kodhek, Odhiambo Mbai and Robert Ouko. Wajackoyah said convicts in death row will be given their favourite meals according to their tribes ahead of the hanging exercise. “Before you are hanged, you will be served chicken if you are a Luhya; fish if you are Luo and mursik if you are Kalenjin,” he said. Wajackoyah also said his reign will see the abolition of prisons as culprits will be killed as soon as they are convicted by a court of law. The Roots Party candidate was also cautious enough not to rattle supporters of his competitor, Raila Odinga. Instead, he said that Raila's father, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, although dead, harbours great wisdom that he would love to reap from. He said that Oginga was from the Wanga ancestry where he (Wajackoyah) comes from. "After leaving Siaya town, I will proceed to Bondo and then to the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Mausoleum. Jaramogi is sleeping there with great wisdom that I need right now to win the presidency," the Roots Party candidate said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)