A team of security officers narrowly escaped death after two of their vehicles ran over an explosive device along Fino- Sheikh Barrow road in Mandera. The team was driving from Fino towards Sheikh Barrow when their vehicles were hit by an Improvised Explosive Device at intervals on Friday. The vehicles included a mine-resistant ambush protected vehicle. The officers survived and jumped out amid a gun attack by suspected al Shabaab terrorists. Witnesses said the team managed to fight the attackers and no injury was reported. They repulsed the group, which ran towards Somalia border. The area is near the Kenya- Somalia border where al Shabaab terrorists have been breaching to attack targets and run back. This is the latest attack amid reports that pockets of attackers had sneaked into the country and roam there, ready for attacks. The militants are armed with rifles and explosives, which they set on routes frequently used by residents and government officials. The same gang had targeted a campaign trail two days earlier before they were repulsed by security personnel. The attackers have also been targeting communication masts in the same area. Last week, they attacked and destroyed a communication mast in Malkamari in Banisa, Mandera county. The gang used explosives to target the mast over the weekend, before escaping. Northeastern police boss George Seda said they had deployed more officers to pursue the attackers, who escaped towards the border. The terrorists have been targeting security installations in the area. This is despite campaigns to address the insecurity menace. Insecurity has affected the education sector, forcing tens of teachers who are non-locals to flee. Other professionals also escaped amid mounted security operations. Two weeks ago, three workers of a road construction company were injured when a vehicle they were traveling in was hit by an explosive device in Mandera county. The incident happened at Dadach Qatarow between Ires Kinto and Domog along Wargadud- Takaba Road, on July 14. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from the militants who are at times aided by residents. The area is near the Somalia border and the militants usually cross at will and stage attacks before escaping back. Al Shabaab terrorists have been attacking places in Mandera and Garissa counties after breaching security zones, leaving dozens of civilians and security officials dead and wounded. The terrorists have been planting explosives on routes used by the security agencies. Somalia has not had a stable government after the fall of Siad Barre in 1991. Kenyan troops are in Somalia to pursue and suppress the activities of the terror group. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)