@robertomollo3 Learning was suspended at God Bondo Secondary in Rangwe constituency after parents stormed the school on Monday, demanding the transfer of the principal. They accused the principal George Mboya of poor performance, which has led to low admissions to the school. Security officers from Ngegu police station had to be called in to control the situation, as angry parents threatened to camp at the institution until their demands were met. Parents blamed the children transfers to poor management skills and a bad relationship between the principal and his colleagues. They also claimed the head teacher does not admit any new ideas meant to improve the school. Many learners have moved to neighbouring schools like Olare, Ongeti and Kuoyo Kochia. Currently, God Bondo has 18 students with no learner in Form 1. A parent, Vitalis Okech, said in less than five years more than 300 learners have migrated to other schools but the principal is not taking action. “We want him to leave so the trend can be reversed.” According to the school register, 16 students reported to class on Monday. Two student were absent with one female student reported to be sick and admitted at a private hospital in Nyangweso trading centre. The school has seven students in Form 4 who are expected to sit this year's Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam. They will sit their exams at different centres since they lack the quorum of at least 15 candidates as required by the National Examination Council. Form 3 has seven students while Form 2 has four. The school has five teachers employed by the Teachers Service Commission and one employed by the board. Five support staffers are also at the school. Parents who spoke to journalists said their concern is that the institution will collapse when students are withdrawn. Oketch said stakeholders at the school have presented memoranda to different government institutions demanding the transfer of the principal but their request has not been effected. He attribute the poor performance over the years to poor management of the school. “Students have been scoring E when neighbouring schools are having A grades. All the problems were brought by the principal,” Oketch said. The parent said students from neighbouring villages are forced to trek at least five kilometers in search of education. The principal could not be reached for comments. However education officials who visited the school said the government will act on the grievances of the parents. Rangwe Quality Assurance officer Fredrick Nyauncho said he will write a report about the demands of the parents and forward the same to the Ministry of Education. “We received the memorandum from parents and we’ll act appropriately,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)