Two prime suspects have been arrested over a macabre killing of a 26-year-old woman whose body was found in her house in Mowlem, Nairobi, and mouth stuffed with a cloth. Edwin Onditi Odada, the main suspect in the murder of Pamela Asesa on July 12, has reportedly confessed to having committed the murder. A second suspect, Samuel Juma Otieno, was found to be in possession of the deceased’s mobile phone. Criminal records have revealed that Odada had previously been sentenced to life imprisonment by Oyugis High Court following a defilement case in 2017. He was however released after a successful appeal in 2020. The two were arrested within Tushauriane area in Kayole and are being processed for a court appearance, police said. Pamela had claimed the suspect had tried to rape her in their house. The suspect was a friend to the family. Her body was found in her house with physical injuries on the neck and police say she was strangled. Her mouth was stuffed with a piece of clothing and there were indications of rape before the murder. Police investigations show the deceased's boyfriend had returned home as usual at around 8 pm and found her dead. The two had been cohabiting at a rented apartment in the area. Oduor, who works at an engineering company along Mombasa Road, arrived at his house only to find it inaccessible after being locked. At first, he assumed that his fiancé had probably gone out to shop for dinner, but her phone constantly went unanswered. It was not until minutes turned into hours without her showing up that he smelt a rat. He contacted a friend who showed up immediately and together, they broke into the house. Therein, they found her body sprawled on their bed and T-shirt had been inserted into the deceased mouth. Nairobi police boss James Mugera said the main suspect was seen leaving Oduor’s house at around 4pm on that fateful day. Detectives have established that the deceased had initially reported to his boyfriend that at one time on an earlier date, the suspect had attempted to rape her. The suspect had been close friends with Oduor and they even resided together in the same house where the beastly act was committed. Oduor had expelled the suspect from the house after learning that he had attempted to rape his girlfriend, only for him to return on the fateful night where he found the deceased alone in the house, and resorted to strangling her to death.