Mang’u High School students outshone their colleagues from 60  schools in a mathematics competition held at the school. Mang’u students dominated, taking first and second positions to once again emerge as the best boys' school in the 24th Mang’u National Mathematics contest. Murang’a High School took position three while Samuel Njuguna of Nanyuki High School was the math wizard of the day in the boys' individual category. Keith Mwangi and Wesly Maikumi, both from Mang’u, emerged second and third respectively. In the girls’ category, Mary Hill  Girls led Bishop Gatimu and Moi Forces Lanet in scooping the top awards. Anita Jelang’at of Mary Hill topped the individual girls' performance followed by Prudence Kimathi of Limuru Girls and Sharleen Maison of Moi Girls Isinya. Eunice Muthoni, Nelson Kamau and Teresia Wanjiru led Dundori Secondary School to clinch the mixed schools' title. The trio were ranked first, second and third respectively. In this category, Dundori grabbed first and second positions while St Mary's Yatta finished third. Joytown Special School scooped the special schools' category award. Hilary Ruto, Ezra Mureithi and Evans Mukeku steered their special school to a clean sweep for positions one, two and three respectively. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the competition was last held in 2019. Prof Gachuhi Waititu, an associate professor at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, was the chief guest. Waititu is chairman of the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Sciences and acting head of Mathematics and Physical Sciences at JKUAT. In 1996, Mang’u mathematics department hatched the idea to popularise maths within secondary schools to help offset the perpetual challenges affecting the core subject Gachuhi said maths permeates all aspects of life, from vegetable and mitumba vendors to almost all subjects taught at the university level. The don urged students to keep practicing until they make perfect and encouraged them to consult their colleagues and teachers. “Students need to know the different topics and formulas to apply. They must not shy away from asking their classmates and teachers whenever they have challenges, then keep practicing what they have been taught,” he said. The professor told the students that many think of maths as a difficult subject yet it is an important lesson for life. “It gives you ideas on how to analyse situations from different angles or dimensions. Today we are in a campaign mood; all the big political contestants are demanding statistics and data from mathematicians to plan their campaigns betters,” he said. Prof Gachuhi said the medical and engineering fields use lots of data, from statistics to calculus, algebra to numerical analysis. “Building and construction industry as well as computer courses also use maths extensively,” he said. Mang’u chief principal, John Kuria congratulated the coordinators of the contest for organising the event within a short period. Kuria urged all students to remain disciplined to succeed academically. He also thanked the sponsors and pledged to include more in future events. Herman Maina, the head of the maths department at Mang’u said over the years, the contest has provided a forum for interaction, exchange of ideas, generating and sustaining interest in Mathematics. “We have also achieved another cardinal goal, change of attitude that only a certain caliber of students can excel in Mathematics,” he said. “We have also been able to monitor and evaluate the subject’s curriculum." He hailed the key sponsors of the programme, Mount Kenya University, Zetech University, KCB (Juja branch) and the administration of Mang’u High, among others. MKU sponsored certificates that were issued and pledged to continue doing so. Boniface Murigi, MKU director, corporate services and communication, said they would wish to see a holistic approach to all subjects to produce all rounded students. "Varsities and colleges would like to admit students who understand all subjects," Murigi said. A student, Isaac Kirui said Mang’u High is the home of Mathematics. “We always do well in the subject. Our teachers keep pushing us because they believe once you are good in the subject, the rest are a walk over,” he said. (Edited by  Tabnacha O)