More than 1,400 ECDE teachers in Homa Bay have been given permanent and pensionable jobs. Governor Cyprian Awiti said the appointments were a milestone in the county education sector as Homa Bay is among the first counties to absorb such teachers on permanent and pensionable terms. He said he had been working on ensuring the contracts became a reality since 2014 albeit with numerous obstacles. “In 2014 we came up with the idea and presented it to concerned bodies like the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, the Teachers Service Commission, the Council of Governors and trade unions,” Awiti said. Speaking when he handed over letters of appointment at the county headquarters in Homa Bay town on Monday, the governor said the breakthrough will form part of his legacy as he retires after serving his two terms. The governor said the teachers have the ability to access loans for their personal development. “Today we are issuing letters that many of the teachers have been pursuing for years. I am proud to announce that our ECDE teachers are now on permanent and pensionable terms,” he said. Awiti assured the teachers that their pay had been adjusted upwards commensurate to their level of education. “We have teachers who have furthered their education and we have factored all that in. Salaries will be paid according to their level of education,” he said. He was accompanied by acting county secretary Donald Ogweno and acting county public service board Lawrence K’Oteng. Ogweno said the teachers will benefit from attractive pension schemes. He said the teachers will also be able to access loans and other financial services from banks and cooperative societies. “I want to encourage our teachers to enrol for pension schemes that will help them grow as individuals now that they are permanent employees of the county government of Homa Bay,” Ogweno said. K’Oteng asked the teachers to operate within ethical and professional standards. “We thank the teachers for their eight-year patience as they awaited to be appointed into the permanent and pensionable establishment,” he said. Governor Awiti also drummed up support for Raila Odinga’s presidential bid and urged teachers to vote for Azimio-One Kenya coalition candidates. “Let us ensure that this coming poll Raila wins first round and this will only happen if we all come out to cast our votes for Raila and Azimio candidates in all elective positions,” Awiti said. Edited by A.N