Trans-Nzoia Falcons leave next Friday for a pre-season tour in Uganda with three matches lined up during the week-long trip, coach Justine Okiring has confirmed. The Kitale-based side will settle scores with Kawempe Muslim, Kampala Municipal, and a yet-to-be-known team. The Falcons finished sixth last season and have set a top-four target for the next season. Okiring said the purpose of the trip is to expose the players and allow them to train outside their comfort zones to boost their confidence after a disastrous end to their season. The Falcons lost their last two matches of the league including handing a  walkover against Thika to crown a below-per-season. "The Uganda trip will be an eye-opener to what we need to do. The players will return to training at the start of next week before we travel. The exposure is needed and I want my players to be competitive." Falcons are looking to sign up to nine players mostly from school, with defence and midfield earmarked for upgrading. The goalkeeping department also needs to be addressed. Okiring was forced to field his attackers in place of defenders with his depleted squad stretched to their limit because of injuries and suspensions. Falcons want to sign players from Wiyeta Girls, Butere, Ikomero and Solasa Stima Queens as Okiring revealed his love of working with teen sensations. "Trans-Nzoia is the hub of talent and it's easy to work with upcoming players because they are eager to learn and grow. Attackers Ruth Chebungei, Martha Karani, and Tumaini Waliaula are the only experienced players we can count on." Meanwhile, Okiring said the imminent departure of star forward Violet Wanyonyi will not impact the team's plans for the 2022-23 season. Wanyonyi, who was on loan at Vihiga Queens and helped the Legacy Makers win the inaugural Cecafa Club Championship in 2021, is expected to join Club Municipal de Laayoune that plies their trade in the Moroccan Women's Premier League. She also played in the Caf Women's Champions League in Egypt the same year. The pacy forward was at the club in March for trials and impressed her suitors. "Ours is to churn out talent. We will always have a solution to every tricky situation we encounter. The club won't stand in the way of any player who wants a new challenge."