African 100m champion Ferdinand Omanyala will arrive in Eugene barely two hours before the preliminaries of his specialty as the World Athletics Championships get underway today. The continent's fastest man was due to leave the country Thursday evening for Doha aboard Qatar Airways before connecting to Seattle, USA, and then embarking on the final journey by road to Eugene, Oregon, according to Athletics Kenya (AK) official Barnaba Korir. Omanyala received his visa for both the World Championships and Commonwealth Games on Thursday after a hue and cry from the public over his frustrations to travel to the championships which start on Friday. Omanyala’s expected Time of Arrival (ETA) in Oregon is 4 pm, which is 2 am Kenyan time. This is only two and a half hours before his race. According to Korir, they are in touch with World Athletics officials, who have agreed to pick him up from the airport and ferry him straight to the venue. "Onto the next flight to Oregon. I am positive that I will compete.  Thanks so much for your support and prayers,” said Omanyala on his Twitter handle upon receiving his visa from the US Embassy after intervention by the Ministry of Sports. Sport Ministry on its twitter handle said: “We are very pleased to secure both USA and UK visas for all our athletes including our sensational athlete @Ferdiomanyala.” “Our athletes are now set for both the World Championships and Commonwealth Games!” Omanyala thanked God, President Uhuru Kenyatta, and Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Dr. Amina Mohamed for ensuring he got the visa in time for the competition in Eugene. The third fastest man in the world this year is also expected to compete in the Commonwealth Games slatted for  July 28- August 8 in Birmingham. He said all Kenyans had visa challenges and he is not an exception. Omanyala was not the only athlete having visa issues, women's 10,000m specialist Sheila Chepkirui has also been cleared to travel alongside physiotherapists Jessica Shiraku and Japheth Kariakim.