The 2022 Standard Chartered Marathon organisers are hoping to register 25,000 athletes for this year's event slated for October 30th This year, the marathon venue will be Uhuru Gardens with the race being run on the Southern Bypass. The Standard Chartered Bank is also targeting 10,000 runners for the virtual marathon event which will start a week earlier and run for seven days. This year’s event will feature six categories thus—42km (men and women), 21km (men and women), 10km (men and women), 21km wheelchair (men and women), 5km family fun run and corporate relay challenge. To register, participants are expected to visit the official Nairobi Marathon website ( www.nairobimarathon.com) and register before October 16,  2022. Registration will attract an entry fee of Sh2,000 up until October 10 and Sh2500 from then till October 16, 2022. Speaking during the launch, Peter Gitau, COO Standard Chartered, and chairman of the Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon Local Organizing Committee said, “Last year, we successfully held the Nairobi Marathon after a year of hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic." He added: "While the physical run was restricted because of social distancing rules, the virtual option was a great complement and had over 5,000 participants from 60 countries." This year, he said with restrictions easing, they have designed the 2022 Nairobi Marathon to be more expansive and seamless. "We have increased our capacity for physical participants to 15,000 and  incorporated different digital tracking tools to allow for an easier user journey for our virtual participants," he noted. He exuded confidence that the lessons they’ve learned over the years will contribute towards a successful event this year with the highest international standards. "We are grateful to all our partners and sponsors, who have consistently helped us execute the marathon and we are committed to continued collaboration with them" he noted. The bank has sponsored the Nairobi Marathon since 2003 with proceeds channeled towards the bank’s Futuremakers initiative aimed at tackling inequality and promoting economic inclusion for the younge generation.