Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has put on notice all politicians at the Coast planning to cause violence during this year’s election. On Wednesday, the CS held a two-hour closed-door meeting with the regional security committee team at the regional commissioner’s office at Uhuru na Kazi building in Mombasa. Matiang'i said the government is determined to keep the region safe throughout the electioneering period. “I have instructed my colleagues in the regional security team to act ruthlessly on any individual politician or any player who is going to try to do those kinds of things [cause violence],” he said. “My simple advice to them is that don’t try because we are watching you very closely.” Matiang’i further said that from the meeting, they had identified two counties in the region that would likely experience trouble. The Interior CS, however, said security will be heightened in those areas, adding that plans were already in place to deploy additional resources and personnel. The CS said they were looking into two counties in the coastal region, where possibly players in the political arena may be tempted to try and mobilise small groups that may lead to violence. “We will effectively next week deploy additional security to back up my colleagues led by the regional commissioner John Elungata who are doing a phenomenal and excellent job in keeping this region safe,” Matiang’i said. “I have also asked the regional police commander to act decisively and expeditiously on any one of those individuals who may make any efforts or may be tempted to put up those groups together regardless of their status in the society.” The CS alsp said he had firm instructions from the National Security Council to ensure that the election happens in a peaceful manner. He said that the police have the responsibility and duty to back the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct peaceful free and fair election. “People of this region should have nothing to worry about, go about your activities peacefully, obey the law, and choose leaders you desire by exercising your democratic right," Matiang'i said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)