A woman who sued former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko over child upkeep has withdrawn the case. According to the woman, she was coerced to taint Sonko's name in exchange for Sh1 million. “That I have since searched my soul on the matter, considered the suit against the defendant and I now wish to unconditionally withdraw both the Chamber Summons Application and Suit both dated the 12th of May 2022 and further wish to extend my unreserved apologies to the Plaintiff herein and to this Honourable Court,” she said. The lady had filed a case in court on May 12,2022 seeking the former Governor to be compelled to pay a monthly upkeep amounting to Sh448,450. She accused Sonko of neglecting their child, whom she claimed to have sired 15 years ago. Sonko distanced himself from claims that he had the 15-year-old child with the woman and refused to pay child support. The former governor then requested that the child be handed over to him, offering raise the child despite not being his. However, in a sworn affidavit on Thursday, the woman claimed she was approached by two ladies from Mombasa county who promised her the money, if she tarnished Sonko’s name by filing the suit. She revealed that Sh240,000 was first paid in cash. She prayed to the court that the matter be marked as withdrawn with no orders as to costs which the court obliged. “I can see the documents which were filed by the plaintiff, they are on record, I consider those submissions and I proceed to mark the suit as withdrawn with no orders to cost,” Ngong Law Courts Senior Principal Magistrate Pamela Achieng who presided over the case ruled. Reacting to the matter, Sonko said  he knew the  issue had been planned by his political enemies adding  that  he has forgiven them and the lady. He also wished  the lady well in her  endeavors. "I don't think I can refuse to take care of any kid out there whether mine or not. I knew this was just planned by my political enemies but from the bottom of my heart I forgive them," Sonko added.