The Kirinyaga county government has started processing title deeds for all coffee factories in the region to give them security to their land. This emerged during an annual general meeting that brought together farmers and stakeholders in the coffee sector. While addressing Mwirua Coffee Farmers’ Cooperative Society, Lands executive Peter Kanjobe said the process of issuing land titles was at an advanced stage and all factories will receive the documents soon. Kanjobe added that the documents will safeguard the factories from being grabbed by unscrupulous people who, he said, had infiltrated lands meant for public facilities such as hospitals, stadiums and police stations. “Our factories have remained without title deeds from time immemorial, which have exposed them to land grabbers, some of whom have already acquired fake titles for them,” the executive said. He said that seven acres belonging to Baricho Hospital had been grabbed and the title deed issued to an individual. The executive also cited Kianyaga Hospital and Kianyaga police station as some of the facilities which had been encroached by private developers. “We cannot allow grabbing of public land to continue and we will go to court to have orders to remove the grabbers and revoke irregularly acquired titles,” he said. Kanjobe also said that all the nine factories that make up Mwirua Cooperative Society are beneficiaries of coffee roasting equipment given by the county to enable farmers to add value to their coffee. He said the county will be giving out modern packaging equipment to enhance operations at the roasting house. The executive also listed the development projects that the county has implemented in Ndia constituency which include construction of a male ward at Baricho Health Centre, rehabilitation of several roads and construction of bridges. He said that plans are also underway to construct a modern market in Kiburu trading centre. Speaking at the same forum, Cooperative Development executive Jacqueline Njogu said that the AGM provided an avenue for various players to be enlightened on the  cooperative society’s performance for the year. She said that her department works closely with the elected leaders of cooperative societies to ensure that the organisations are run in a transparent manner to safeguard the interests of the members, and that money due to farmers gets to them. “Together with the other stakeholders we are also engaged in formulation of policies that guide the cooperative sector in the county," Njogu said. "I am happy to report that the sector is performing better, especially when it comes to coffee sales for the just concluded financial year."  (edited by Amol Awuor)