World 5000m silver medalist Beatrice Chebet's sublime form in Eugene left her coaches baffled, athletics coach Benard Ouma has revealed. Chebet, 22, clocked a seasonal best time of 14:47.75 behind Ethiopia's Gudaf Tsegay to bag silver at the Hayward Field track on Sunday morning. In an exclusive interview with Capital Sports in Oregon on Tuesday, Ouma said the Kenyan prodigy sprang a pleasant surprise that sent the entire technical unit ecstatic. “Personally, Beatrice Chebet surprised me and she surprised other coaches as well. We didn't expect her to appear on the podium. We were so happy to see her,” Ouma said. Ouma tipped Chebet to make the country proud in both the 5000m and 10,000m races as long as she doesn't decide to switch to the gravel anytime soon. “ You see, there is a lot of money in the road races and so many athletes tend to shift to the road races almost immediately. The coach extolled all the Kenyan youngsters who flew the country's flag in Eugene saying they sparkled among the world's finest. “Any junior who made it to the semis and the finals, congratulations. Any junior who won a medal here is fantastic! The World Championship has the best athletes. It is a tough event and not for the faint-hearted,” Ouma said. Ouma said Kenyan athletes surmounted unprecedented odds to wrap up fourth at the annual global showpiece. Ouma said the team had the potential to pull off a medal haul but had their wings clipped by a host of challenges experienced back home. “The selection was done quite well but we shouldn't have selected the Oregon World Championships and the Commonwealth Games as a single unit. Next time, we hope to have separate teams. “And then we had some conditions to comply with to be eligible to compete in the world. This again shrunk the field of selection-forcing athletes to double in events,” Ouma said. “Ticketing was also an issue. You'll get a route that takes 19 hours but get tickets that take 28 hours. Why? Because they were done in a lump sum, or probably, they were done late. Ouma pointed out that traveling to Oregon was so tedious and chaotic that he had to be hospitalized once the plane touched down at the airport. “It was also tough for the athletes to travel without a physio but we were lucky to have been joined later by a Kenyan physio who resides in the USA. Team Kenya physios didn't make it here because of visa challenges,” Ouma said. “Maybe next time we shall start planning for visa and ticketing early enough. It's all about planning and at times we need to do our planning very well.” Ouma fell short of faulting the stringent measures put in place by the Word  Anti-Doping Unit (WADA) , saying they merely served to derail Kenya's campaign on the global stage. “In some cases, athletes ran very well but were not selected. That's because Kenya has been put in Category 'A' by the World Anti-Doping Agency. “Unless we try as much as we can to get out of category 'A' then we will continue struggling with the number of athletes who are compliant to compete at such global events.” 