Kenya Ports Authority left-attacker Dennis Omollo believes the coastal side are in better shape as they seek to have a shot at glory once the Kenya Volleyball playoffs go down at Nyayo Stadium this weekend. The hard-hitting attacker, who made his national team debut during the African Nation's Championships in Rwanda last year, has been a mainstay in Sammy Mulinge's KPA. KPA lost just once in the 16-team league to finish second behind leaders and defending champions the General Service Unit in regular season. Kenya Prisons and newbies Trailblazers will also play in the round-robin three-day, four-team competition. Omollo, 25 admitted that they face the toughest challenge of their lives against their more accomplished opponents but opined that their rivals are already worried about KPA's flexibility, consistency and never-die spirit. "The playoffs this time round are going to be tough, but we're thoroughly prepared. We are going for nothing short of the title because we've had a faultless season, the boys have upped their game and together we can achieve something special," said Omollo. The Siaya native has opted to ignore speculation regarding his future amidst mounting interest from Oman, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. "The competition level has moved a notch higher this season. The improvement is down to hard training and player commitment. You cannot underrate any team at this stage," said Omollo. "KPA do not fear any team but, surprisingly, teams are scared of us. Our consistency is giving them sleepless nights but that does not mean we are favourites." On his assessment of the season, Omollo said:" It was unfortunate for Equity to miss out on the playoffs. I felt they played so well but that was not enough and that is the beauty of sports. It is our time, we want to give our best. Physically and psychologically we are set." The African Club Championships will come in handy for KPA who have played in the last two annual editions of  Africa's Premier club assignment. KPA will rely on key players including setter Elijah Bosire, Peter Kamara and Enock Mogeni (opposite players).