Blueberries prove to be extremely versatile, we have them on our smoothies, breakfast bowls, with pancakes, waffles, or even bake them in our pastries however you might not be fully aware of some of the nutritious benefits of the fruit. Studies have shown blueberries protect against heart disease and cancer, but can also help maintain bone strength, mental health, and low blood pressure. Experts recommend eating them as fresh as possible. They are good for bones High in iron, phosphorus, calcium, zinc, manganese, and Vitamin K, each of these nutrients contributes to healthy bone structures. Vitamin K improves calcium absorption and prevents calcium loss, however, people using blood thinners are recommended to consult their doctor as increasing vitamin K intake can affect blood clotting. Good for your skin Blueberries are high in vitamin C which is responsible for promoting healthy skin. Vitamin C promote the synthesis of collagen, which helps to smooth out wrinkles and is an essential nutrient that can help to prevent skin damage caused by chemicals, pollution, sun exposure and smoke. Lowering blood pressure For people susceptible to high blood pressure, blueberries are good since they are free of sodium and high in potassium and magnesium which can help to reduce blood pressure. Improve brain function Blueberries affect the area in your brain that is responsible for intelligence. High in antioxidants, they help to delay mental decline. May help fight Urinary Tract Infections UTIs are very common in women who are of reproductive age. Like cranberries, blueberries have a substance that can prevent certain bacteria that cause infections from binding to the walls of your bladder, and this may help prevent UTIs. They are good after a workout After strenuous exercise, our muscles tend to be sore and fatigue kicks in. This is partially caused by inflammation that happens after your muscles stretch. Well, blueberries may help minimise the soreness and accelerate muscle recovery.