Kakamega ANC governor candidate Cleophas Malala has said he will sign economic charters with all subcounties ahead of the polls. He said the social contracts will guide the county’s development agenda if elected in August. The candidate said the county leadership should be rotational to achieve regional balance and ensure equitable development. “The top county leadership has been in the south for the last 10 years and should now move to either central or northern region. It is unfortunate that Governor Oparanya (Wycliffe) has brought a relative from the south to succeed him,” Malala said. Kakamega is divided into south, central and northern regions. Southern region comprises of Butere, Khwisero, Matungu, Mumias East and Mumias West constituencies while central region has Ikolomani, Lurambi, Navakvolo and Shinyalu constituencies. Northern region  has Malava, Lugari and Likuyani constituencies. Regional balance is one of the key dynamics that shape the August 9 governor contest. Malala comes from Lurambi in the central region while his main rival Fernandes Barasa of ODM hails from Matungu in the Southern region. Other candidates like Cyrus Jirongo comes from Lugari in the northern region while Samuel Omukoko of MDP and Michael Osundwa (independent) both come from Mumias West. Another independent candidate Austin Optisohails from Khwisero. Malala was addressing a campaign rally at Shivakala market in Shinyalu constituency on Friday. He said he will complete projects started by Oparanya, including completion of Madala tea factory and Shamakhubu Level 4 hospital in Shinyalu and initiate new ones across the county. Malala said 50 per cent of employees at the Madala tea factory once completed will be from the local community. The governor hopeful said he will remove management of the county bursaries from politicians and administer the same through school managements to end biasness in issuance. “This will end incidences where only children of political cronies benefit from the bursaries leaving deserving cases out. We will manage the fund from schools because it’s the teachers who know the needy cases,” he said. He said he will set aside Sh300 million for a revolving fund to ease access to interest-free credit by small scale traders. He promised to supply piped water to household free of charge if elected. Malala said his administration will build reservoirs next to natural springs and fit them with solar pumps to pump the water to homesteads. “Our vision is pegged on poverty alleviation, wealth creation and affordable quality services to all,” he said. 