Mike Sonko's bid to run for the Mombasa governor seat on Friday hit a dead end after the Supreme Court upheld his impeachment. The former Nairobi governor was impeached in December 2020 but has since sought to overturn the decision of the county assembly and the Senate. His bid flopped at the High Court and later at the Court of Appeal before he moved to the Supreme Court. It was the pending case at the Supreme Court that provided the basis on which a three-judge bench of the High Court sitting in Mombasa directed the IEBC to clear Sonko to run for Mombasa governor. The judges said Sonko had not yet exhausted his appeals and could therefore not be barred from running for public office. Any impeached public officer is deemed unfit to hold such office and cannot therefore be allowed to present himself for elections. The Supreme Court decision rendered on Friday means Sonko has now exhausted his appeals and stands impeached. Earlier on Wednesday, shortly after the High Court sitting in Mombasa rendered its decision, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati said they would wait for the Supreme Court judgment to determine Sonko's fate. In the appeal before the Supreme Court, seven issues were listed for determination. They included whether the court's jurisdiction was properly invoked and whether due process was followed in his removal from office. Sonko also asked the court to determine whether he was accorded adequate time to respond to the charges against him both at the county assembly and in the Senate. Public participation, substantiation of charges and whether the sovereignty of the people was respected and protected. "Upon consideration, the Supreme Court has dismissed the appeal by Sonko for the reasons that it lacked jurisdiction," the judges said. However, the court said it entertained the appeal in view of the public interest nature of the dispute, the need for due guidance to the judicial process and to the courts below and for the sake of posterity and development of jurisprudence. "The court (via majority) decided to settle all the pertinent questions the appeal raises instead of downing tools on account of want of jurisdiction," it ruled. Sonko's appeal was filed on April 1 but was heard on Thursday, July 14. His lawyers, led by Wilfred Nyamu and senior counsel George Khaminwa, had put up a spirited fight to have the hearing adjourned, saying they were not ready to proceed with the hearing. Those pleadings were vehemently opposed by lawyers Paul Nyamodi and Duncan Okatch who were representing the respondents. They said Sonko was trying to buy time so his appeal is not settled on time to allow him to run for Mombasa governor's seat. "He is using this appeal for collateral purposes to facilitate his candidature," Nyamodi said. Khaminwa had asked the court to overturn the impeachment and allow Sonko to run for Mombasa governor, saying he was a very popular young man and that him being not allowed to participate in elections could cause chaos. "A popular leader is being stopped from participating in elections. Whatever you do, whatever decision you make, let Sonko participate in elections. His impeachment was flawed," Khaminwa submitted. They had argued that there was no public participation and that the impeachment proceedings before both the county assembly and the Senate were not properly conducted. "The impeachment proceedings before the county assembly and the Senate were properly conducted," the Supreme Court said. The appeal was heard by a full bench of the court. The judges include Chief Justice Martha Koome, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, Justices Mohammed Ibrahim, Smokin Wanjala, Njoki Ndungú, Isaac Lenaola and William Ouko. "There was sufficient public participation, the intended tabling of the motion for the impeachment of the appellant was not only advertised in a local daily newspaper with wide circulation in response to which people submitted memoranda, but also a survey was conducted in the county in form of questionnaires. This was in addition to the fact that the proceedings were conducted in public," the judges ruled. The decision marks the end of Sonko's career in elective politics and public service as it means the IEBC will recall its decision to clear him for the Mombasa governor's race. Sonko was elected as the governor of Nairobi City during the 2017 general elections for a term of five years. He served until December 17, 2020 when he was removed from office by way of impeachment. Both the county assembly and the Senate found him guilty of plundering public resources, persistently intimidating and molesting officers of the county executive committee and unlawfully using public funds to pay for his daughter’s travel to New York, USA. “We come to the irresistible conclusion that the impeachment of the appellant was in compliance with the Constitution and the law. We therefore find no merit in the petition of appeal. It bears mentioning in conclusion that Chapter Six of the Constitution was not enacted in vain or for cosmetic reasons,” the Supreme Court said. 