The story of the rich young man in Matthew 19:16-30 who came to see Jesus and inquire about eternal life is one that reflects the lives of many of us. Just like this character, many of us profess to know and love God and would really want to strengthen our relationship with Him. The man had asked Jesus what he needed to do to access eternal life in the kingdom of God. He had kept all the commandments, yet there was more he needed to do. Jesus told him to sell all his possessions, give to the poor and come and follow Him. This is where most of us falter when it comes to forging that solid relationship with our Father. We are most times never ready to make the necessary sacrifice or pay the painful cost to draw closer to God. This is because many times, our hearts are attached to the treasures or things of this world. There are people, habits, materials or even relationships that are too valuable for us to give them up for anything else. It may not be our possessions that God is asking us to sell, but it may be something else to which we may feel our lives revolve around come what may. After all, Jesus said that where our hearts are, there our treasures will also be (Matthew 6:21). However, such painful sacrifices are never in vain. Jesus concludes Matthew 19:16-30 with the promise that those who have given up their most-treasured possessions, including families and fields, for His sake will not fail to get a hundredfold as much and inherit eternal life. Paul is one such witness who testified to the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus. Here was a man to whom the mere mention of Christianity would set his blood boiling with anger. He was in one such mood on his way to Damascus to find and bind (in chains) any Christians professing faith in Jesus and bring them back as prisoners in Jerusalem. Little did he know that along that road he would encounter Jesus, transforming him from Saul to Paul and to a man who would soon become one of the fiercest defenders of the same gospel he was fighting. In Philippians 3:1-10, he speaks of his transformation from a man who was so much into religion to a Spirit-driven person and a lover of Christ. He describes himself as a purebred Jew with every reason to brag in the flesh, blessed with knowledge per excellence concerning the law of Moses and, therefore, qualified to be an esteemed religious leader. However, he concludes this portion of scripture by describing all these qualities as "dung" when compared with the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus. His outlook on life has changed so much. Paul is a man in love with the Lord and desires to know Him more and more. What joy! May this be our portion in Jesus' name. May we love Him enough to move on from that which does not compare to His love.