Coast regional commissioner John Elungata has called on the security agencies in the region to be more vigilant ahead of the general election next month. According to Elungata, vigilance is necessary following increased political campaigns in the region. Elungata spoke in Minjilla town in Tana River county on Tuesday during a security meeting with regional security heads from Lamu and Tana River counties. He was accompanied by Coast regional police commander Titus Karuri. He urged the security chiefs to be on high alert. “It is during the political campaign period that other conflict-related issues like pastoralist-farmer conflicts, hate speech and inter-community conflicts crop up,” he said. He affirmed that the government is keen to ensure that calm prevails throughout the electioneering period. Elungata singled out Tana River, saying security agents had eyes on the region due to its past conflicts during the election period. He said politicians have already been advised on how to handle themselves during the election period. “Youths should avoid being used by politicians, especially in the hotspot areas where conflicts usually arise,” he said. He said outlawed groups such as the Mombasa Republican Council and Miticharaka Youth gangs are under police surveillance. The administrator fired a warning shot to politicians who might be planning to fuel hate speech and clashes,saying they will be barred from participating in the general election. “Politicians need to be aware that there is life beyond politics and we are calling on them to proceed with their campaigns following the IEBC rule book,” Elungata said. The security boss revealed that surveillance shall be extended to social media platforms, in a bid to nip any overtures of misinformation and disinformation. Besides, he said the government will continue to support national administration officials and security agents with resources to work seamlessly in their areas of jurisdiction. Elungata said the government had deployed enough troops and other security personnel ahead of the polls to facilitate a peaceful election and smooth transition. Karuri said the security agencies are ready to provide enough security during and after the polls and assured Kenyans that they will vote without intimidation and threats. (Edited by Tabnacha O)