DAP-K is a small party and cannot deliver votes to Azimio la Umoja as agreed in the pact, former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khang’ati has said. The former MP is seeking to recapture the seat on an ODM ticket. He lost the seat to MP Wafula Wamunyinyi in the 2013 election. Speaking at his home on Monday when he met his supporters, Khang’ati said DAP-K was given to people "who have no leadership skills". He said it is the reason Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga is trailing Kenya Kwanza in Bungoma. Khang’ati said Raila could have funded ODM candidates in Bungoma and the Western region to campaign for him. “DAP-K leaders are too close to Raila even we, as ODM candidates, feel like we are being sidelined. I think he normally funds them to sell his name and manifesto to the people of Bungoma but instead they campaign for themselves,” he said. Khang’ati said Wamunyinyi, as a party leader, could have gone for a higher seat in the coming election. Wamunyinyi is the DAP-K leader. He is defending his seat on the party ticket. Last month, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said DAP-K signed an MoU with Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition to benefit the Western region, if Raila wins. Wangamati said the pact was signed by DAP-K secretary general Eseli Simiyu and will see the Western region get three Cabinet secretaries and at least five permanent secretaries. "DAP-K has a legitimate and signed working partnership with Azimio and I want to assure you that if Raila wins the elections, then the region will benefit,” the governor said. Wangamati said despite being a new party, DAP-K has overtaken older parties and has fielded candidates in every corner of the country. “DAP-K is the fastest-growing party in the country. I am the one leading Azimio campaigns in Bungoma county to ensure Raila ascends to power,” the county chief said. At the weekend Khang'ati denied claims Raila had endorsed Wamunyinyi for the Kanduyi parliamentary seat. "There was a lot of propaganda when Raila was planning to come here that he would endorse Wamunyinyi. That did not happen," Khang'ati said. The DAP-K party leader is the pointman for Raila in Bungoma. Khang’ati said Wamunyinyi is scared that he will be defeated. Responding to the former MP, Wamunyinyi said Khang’ati has no agenda for Kanduyi voters. He said he has done his best for Kanduyi residents. But Khang'ati urged Kanduyi voters to elect him, promising to continue initiating development projects in the constituency. He said he is an experienced leader and that he pushed hard for Nzoia Sugar farmers to be paid when he was area MP. Khang’ati pledged to continue fighting for farmers' interests if elected. “I have enough support to become the next Kanduyi MP. I have the support of the small business operators whom I supported when I was the MP,” he said. Edited by A.N