A navy blue suit is a must-have for every man because it's easy to play around with. The suit can be worn in formal design, business casual, creative look, summer casual and separately. When wearing the outfits separately, it means breaking the suit. For instance, wearing blue trousers with a grey blazer, a blue blazer with black trousers and a light blue shirt. FORMAL LOOK A man can wear the navy blue suit in an official way as it is supposed to be worn. This is the most common way to style a navy blue blazer. Here, the shirt should be white, paired with white pocket squares and navy blue socks. The tie should be preferably silk maroon, matching with the belt. When wearing the navy blue suit formally, try to find a classy pair of official shoes. This could be Oxford shoes or loafers. BUSINESS CASUAL This is a better way to utilise your navy blue suit without being boring. By being casual, you can avoid the white shirt and wear a striped or checked official shirt. The pieces here are mostly coloured and not plain like the official wear. The pocket square used here should be coloured or have a pattern, with a casual watch. The need to explore extends to the shoes as well; try out a pair of light brown brogues or wingtips. Brogues are low-heeled shoes or boots traditionally characterised by multiple-piece, sturdy leather uppers with decorative perforations. CREATIVE LOOK From the name, this design requires one to be very creative and stylish. This outfit will suit a fashion designer, and any other person can wear it to a wedding, dinner or evening event. First, avoid wearing long socks that are visible; wear boat socks that reveal part of your legs. The shirt worn here is a floral suit that should have its colours blending with the colour of your watch and belt. Also, wear a plain white pocket square to avoid too many colours and plain grey loafers. SUMMER CASUAL This design is very easy and can be worn to parties or even on Friday, when reporting to work. Here, boat socks will also work well compared to happy socks. Wearing a shirt will make this look official, so add that white plain T-shirt that has a V-neck. Then add a patterned pocket square and wear loafers, not brogues.