Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa now claims that his Suna East counterpart Junet Mohamed organized a high-profile meeting with  IEBC officials in a bid to manipulate the August 9, polls. To seemingly back up his claim, the MP shared an audio clip he dubbed "Part 1" claiming it was of Junet talking to an organizer of the meeting. In the audio clip, a man Barasa says is Junet, is heard telling a yet-to-be-identified person on the other end of the phone call that he is ready for the meeting they had talked about. The person claiming to be Junet is heard instructing the receiver of the phone call to bring on board IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati, himself, and Commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu to the meeting. Junet has, however, dismissed the audio clip saying it is fake. "A manipulated social media voice recording doing rounds on social media purporting to capture Hon. Junet Mohamed as speaking to an IEBC official is FAKE," he said in the Statement seen by the Star. He went on to urge Kenyans to ignore the audio even as he invited investigative agencies to probe the matter. Junet said he is busy campaigning for the ODM leader and he, therefore, does not have time to plot to rig elections. "I urge the public to ignore the video, which appears to be one of the last desperate acts of a dying political campaign that has been based on years of lies, innuendoes, mudslinging., arrogance, chest-thumping, name-calling, insults and now- waking up to the reality of a lost election- is on a sympathy seeking spree," he said added in the Statement. "The Hon. Junet Mohamed invites investigative agencies to move with speed and investigate the matter, unearth perpetrators and bring to the law." Barasa, however, says he will hold a press conference on Monday to give a detailed statement and evidence on the allegations. "Hon. Junet Mohamed, we are following you keenly. I will address the nation tomorrow at 4 pm with details and evidence of your attempts to manipulate elections. This will include meetings with pollsters to manipulate opinion polls in favour of Raila Odinga," the MP wrote on his Facebook page. Here is the alleged audio courtesy of MP Didmus Barasa: NOTE: The Star is not responsible for the content of external sites.