Former presidential aspirant Peter Solomon Gichira has asked the United Kingdom to clarify whether Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah is her citizen or not. Gichira says Wajackoyah should not be allowed to run for president because the Constitution bars a candidate with dual citizenship. As such, he has written to the British High Commission in Nairobi to clarify if Wajackoyah is a registered British citizen and if he ever renounced such citizenship. Gichira says Wajackoyah has previously run for election as MP in the UK. He says such a feat is reserved for British citizens, citizens of the Republic of Ireland and those of Commonwealth countries who do not require leave to enter or remain in the UK. If the UK confirms that Wajackoyah is their citizen then it means he cannot run for elections in Kenya. The Constitution of Kenya 2010 says a person is not eligible for election or appointment to a state office unless the person is a citizen. All state officers and members of the defence forces must not hold dual citizenship. "It is in line with the above that we do write on behalf of our client to get clear clarification on whether the above-named candidate is still a registered British citizen," the letter written by Gachie Mwanza and Co advocates reads. The letter has been copied to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and the Immigration Department. Both agencies have received Gichira's letter. The IEBC may be forced to disqualify Wajackoyah from the presidential race if the UK confirms that he is their citizen. Gichira has asked the British High Commission to expedite his request. "Your agent and considerate assistance shall be highly appreciated noting the strict timelines with which the upcoming elections are to be held and the ballot papers ought to be printed in advance," Gichira said. With only 34 days to the August 9 General elections, candidates including Wajackoyah have been crisscrossing the country to woo support for their bids. Wajackoyah is competing against Deputy President William Ruto of UDA, Raila Odinga of Azimio la Umoja one Kenya Coalition and Waihiga Mwaure(Agano Party). Gichira was a presidential aspirant in 2017 and attempted to commit suicide after the IEBC declined to clear him to run. He was charged and later acquitted of attempted suicide and malicious damage to property. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi, however, convicted him on the charge of creating a disturbance at IEBC offices. The court discharged Gichira, but warned him not to commit any other offence in the next six months. That was in 2019. This year, Gichira had again expressed interest in succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta but bowed out of the race citing abduction. He said he dropped his bid after a kidnapping and robbery incident in Nairobi’s Eastlands. On May 25, Gichira made a report at Lungalunga police station in Nairobi claiming he had been abducted two days earlier. Gichira said he was abducted as he made his way to the Bomas of Kenya for a pre-nomination meeting with IEBC. “Consequently, I hereby terminate my candidature for the elective position of the president of the Republic of Kenya. I wish you - the IEBC staff and all candidates - safe and successful elections,” he said in a letter to the commission. (Edited by Tabnacha O)