Spurs finished their South Korean pre-season tour with a 1-1 draw against Spanish side Sevilla in Suwon. Harry Kane fired home five minutes into the second half after some excellent footwork saw Son Heung-min beat his man on the edge of the 18-yard area before slotting in for the oncoming Kane. Kane had seen a goal ruled out for offside in the first half of the match. But Tottenham left with a draw after Sevilla midfielder Ivan Rakitic netted with a powerful strike from outside the box. "This week in Korea I am very happy because we worked a lot and at the same time we enjoyed and played two friendlies," Spurs manager Antonio Conte said. "I think the first game was friendly and this one was a real game." Spurs will return to England with some injury worries after Ben Davies was brought off in the 85th minute. Conte added: "He finished the game with a bit of pain in his ankle. I hope nothing serious." Tottenham beat Team K League 6-3 on Wednesday in their pre-season opener. They will travel to Ibrox to face Rangers next weekend as they continue to prepare for the new campaign. Conte said that he hopes to give new signing Ivan Perisic "20 to 30 minutes" in that game. Perisic is yet to play for Tottenham after suffering a leg injury in his final match at Inter Milan. Elsewhere, newly promoted Fulham triumphed 2-0 over OGC Nice in Portugal and were the only English side to win on Saturday. Neeskens Kebano slotted past the keeper a few minutes before the break to put his side ahead. Harry Wilson added the second when he converted from the penalty spot in the 84th minute. Fellow Londoners Brentford lost the first of their pre-season games in Germany 2-1 to VfB Stuttgart. Bryan Mbeumo scored the game's opener in the first half but the German side levelled through Thomas Kastanaras before Tanguy Coulibaly netted a late penalty to put his side ahead. They have games against Strasbourg and Wolfsburg remaining before they host Real Betis back in London at the end of the month. Leicester played out a 3-3 draw with fellow King Power-owned club OH Leuven in Belgium. Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall, Patson Daka and Jamie Vardy were all on the scoresheet and the Foxes gave 26 players time on pitch during the match. West Ham, meanwhile, were held to a 1-1 draw by Reading. Nikola Vlasic scored on his return to the fold after international duty but the Royals replied through a Yakou Meite goal. Meite thought he had snatched a victory for Reading, but his goal was disallowed for offside. Nottingham Forest drew 0-0 with Barnsley at Oakwell. There were worries when goalkeeper Dean Henderson had to be substituted, but Steve Cooper confirmed that he was not injured. "It was a precaution," said Cooper. "It's been a really heavy week physically, including for the goalkeepers. "He's not injured, he's fine. He just felt his groin a little bit." 