Nairobi Governor Ann Kananu has reshuffled her cabinet again as 'supreme power' continues to play out. In the new changes, Larry Wambua who is currently the  County Executive member in charge of the Environment has been named the new Nairobi CEC for Finance. The position was initially occupied by Allan Igambi who is the Chief officer for Agriculture. Lucia Mulwa who was previously the CEC for Agriculture has moved to the Education department. To make the changes official, Kananu gazetted the changes in the finance department. "Lawrence Wambua in acting capacity as the county executive member for finance in addition to his current responsibilities as the county executive member for environment and Acting county executive member for Devolution and degazettes the appointment of Allan Esabwa  Igambi," reads the gazette notice. The changes come a week after the summoning of two top finance officials over claims of abuse of public funds. Those summoned officials are Chief Finance Officer Mohamed Sahal and the former CEC for finance  Allan Igambi. They were summoned to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters following complaints from City Hall that they were misusing public funds. This was after the head of the serious crime unit Obadiah Kuria wrote to the County Secretary and informed him the DCI is investigating allegations of misuse of public funds. Whereas Igambi honoured the summon and appeared before the officers at the serious crime unit on July 14, 2022, Sahal is said to have failed to do so. Officials aware of the probe said they expected him to appear before the detectives on July 18. Earlier this week, a decision by  Governor Kananu that led to the reshuffling of her cabinet on July 5 was suspended by the Labour Court. Kananu on July 5 named Joseph Gathiaka as the new Nairobi County acting Chief Finance Officer. The position was initially held by Mohamed Sahal who is the Chief Officer for health. Gathiaka is also acting as the County head of Treasury. In the same changes, Deputy Director for Disaster Management Brian Kisali was appointed as the Chief Officer for Disaster Management. Deputy Director for Trade Elizabeth Njau will also be acting in the Trade department as its Chief Officer. Justice Ocharo Kebira, however, issued a temporary order stopping Kananu from allowing or coming into force the reorganization of the Nairobi county government which she did through an executive order. The Judge gave the order following an application by Sahal. He argued that criteria was not followed in the re-designation of offices. He said Gathiaka was not sourced nor recommended by the county public service board for the role he had been given by the Governor.