Kisumu ODM officials are rallying residents to vote for their candidates across all elective positions. The move targets to have the party candidates clinch positions and solidify support for Azimio-One Kenya flagbearer Raila Odinga. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o who is defending his seat on an ODM ticket rallied his supporters to paint the county orange and give Raila a resounding win in the August 9 general election. He spoke during a series of political rallies in Nyando subcounty on Tuesday. Nyong’o said the Raila-led party is the most popular in the area and that will be confirmed at the ballot. He however cautioned residents against being hoodwinked by candidates who ditched the party after losing nominations. The county boss said residents should remain steadfast to safeguard Raila’s votes. Nyong’o who was accompanied by Kisumu ODM chairman Ayiecho Olweny and other ODM aspirants pitched tent in Nyando, which is former governor Jack Ranguma’s stronghold to seek votes. The governor unveiled several projects among them Nyaware Health Centre, Korowe Market, Kagari water pan, Kanyiapala-Gerliech road and Ayucha water project before addressing his supporters at Awasi. He said his development track record speaks for itself urging voters to support him for a second term, to finish the numerous projects he started. The ODM primaries saw a number of candidates ditch the party for smaller parties in Azimio and others as independent candidates. This according to the ODM camp, threatens to scuttle Raila's votes in his backyard. Other candidates in the gubernatorial race are Ranguma who is seeking reelection on a Movement for Democracy and Growth ticket and businesswoman Awuor Meso (independent). In Kisumu Central, the incumbent Fred Ouda who lost the ODM primaries to Dr Joshua Oron is defending the seat as an independent candidate. In Kisumu West the incumbent Alago Oluoch who is supporting Azimio is defending the seat on an MDG ticket. His Kisumu East counterpart Shakeel Shabir is defending his seat as an independent candidate. Youthful Valentine Anyango of MDG will face off ODM's Ruth Odinga in battle for the woman representative seat. The situation is the same at various wards across the county, where a number of candidates are running on small parties within Azimio and as independent candidates. Leaders from the small political parties within the coalition have called for tolerance to ensure the ultimate goal of securing votes for Raila is achieved. Democratic Alliance Party of Kenya Nyanza chairman Chrispine Omondi said the call for six-piece vote was creating disharmony within the coalition. He said all parties small and big must work together to deliver the presidential vote. "Even if ODM is the most predominant party in this area Raila still requires the votes of smaller parties to become president," Omondi said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)