Minority tribes in Webuye town have backed Webuye East MP hopeful Aggrey Namisi's bid to succeed MP Alfred Sambu. In a meeting with the Luo community on Tuesday, more than 500 members said Namisi, who is vying on an ODM ticket, had what it takes to be the next area lawmaker. Led by their deputy chairman Kennedy Otieno, they said minority communities residing in Webuye know Namisi will push for their interests if elected. "As minority tribes living here, we are ready to work with Namisi who has shown that he is a mature, seasoned and people's servant leader,"  he said. Otieno said minority tribes in the area want someone who can take care of their interests. "We are calling on all politicians to preach peace and unity. We also urge residents to turn up on voting day and vote for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga," he said. Otieno said voting for Namisi will boost Raila's support in the National Assembly if he is elected president. "Most of us who used to depend on Webuye Pan Paper Mill for a living before it collapsed have been neglected by past leaders. We have now come together to ensure our interests are catered for," he said. He said when Namisi was Bungoma East Knut secretary general, he proved he had the interests of the people at heart. “We have negotiated with Namisi and we now know our stake in his administration because we are part of this constituency. Most of our people are living and doing business in Webuye town and are ready to work with him as MP," he said. Otieno said since 2013, they have enjoyed peace, love and harmony in Webuye as minority communities. “As this year's general election approaches, we would like to urge leaders vying for various positions to champion unity of all communities and avoid tribal utterances that may cause tension among residents," he said. “As minority groups, we root for leaders with integrity whose leadership qualities go beyond tribe/clan affiliations.” Otieno said minority groups have had a dialogue with Namisi on their more than 8,000 votes. Political parties and tribal realignments are some of the key factors that will influence the next MP in the constituency. With a population of at least 80,000, according to the 2019 population Census, the constituency is dominated by Tachonis, who determine election outcomes. Other communities are Bukusu, Kabaras, Luo, Iteso, Kisii, Kikuyu, Somali, among others. The constituency has three wards-Maraka, Mihuu and Ndivisi. It has 354 polling stations. A growing number of the Luo community and other small communities that have found home in the cosmopolitan town of Webuye form a sway block with every politician salivating for their support. Leaders are aware that they cannot bank on Tachoni and Bukusu community votes alone, which is why they always fight for tickets from parties that enjoy support from other communities. The MP race has also attracted Carol Buyela (Jubilee), Martin Wanyonyi (Ford Kenya), Wanjala Iyaya (DAP-K), Job Chelongo (UDP) and Noah Chiuli (independent). MP Sambu is not defending his seat citing age and health-related issues. Edited by A.N