The Ministry of Education is working on a system on how the current Grade 6 learners will transit to the Junior Secondary Schools in January next year, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has said. On Tuesday, Magoha said the national government is ready for the transition of more than 1.2 million learners. They are expected to join Grade 7 in January under the new Competency-Based Curriculum programme. He said the system on how the transition will take place will be out in three weeks. “In terms of actual transition, teachers have been trained, examinations have been printed, and classrooms are being built,” Magoha said. “The only dynamic thing we have not said is how the children are going to move from grade 6 to 7 but within three weeks, we will come out with a very clear system.” He spoke at Mary Joy Academy Mombasa where he inspected a new block for the Junior Secondary School at the institution. Magoha said they are encouraging private primary schools that have enough space to put up stand-alone Junior Secondary Schools blocks within their institutions. “We have always said CBC classrooms shall be domiciled in secondary schools. However, there is a caveat, for private primary schools, we are going to encourage them to put stand-alone Junior Secondary Schools,” he said. The country requires at least 20,000 new classrooms for Grade 7 learners, and the government has so far put up 6, 497 classes in public secondary schools. Magoha said the remaining 3,500 classrooms of the 10,000 classrooms that the government had pledged to construct, will be ready by September this year. “We have already completed the first batch and we are starting the next lot anytime from now,” he said. Magoha said that currently there is an ongoing programme of another 1,000 classrooms being built by private institutions countrywide. “Before we leave office, in my handover notes, we shall be having an additional 5,000-6000 classrooms in the private sector,” he said. However, Magoha said, the classrooms in private institutions must conform to the guidelines set by the national government for the CBC classes. Magoha said he is glad that all politicians are now supporting the CBC.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris