The lack of a proper stadium was the biggest contributing factor to Kenya not hosting the World Championship slated for 2025. Speaking in an interview, World Athletics President Sebastian Coe said the council had expressed concerns over the refurbishment, time frame, and cost implications of  Moi Stadium, Kasarani. “We had four strong bids but there were challenges around the stadia refurbishment and the time for Kasarani to be ready for the world event,” noted Coe Tokyo got the nod for the event in 2025 over Nairobi,  Singapore, and Chozow, Poland when the world governing body announced the host city last week. Tokyo was selected after scoring the highest in the bid evaluation that focused on four areas thus. They included a powerful narrative, revenue-generating opportunities for WA, enhancement of the international profile of the sport and an appropriate climate. Kenya was keen to become the first country in Africa to host the global extravaganza based on its recent successes in hosting the World U-18 Championships in 2017 and last year's World U-20. The country has also hosted three editions of the Kip Keino Classi and a leg of the World Athletics Continental Gold Tour. Coe said he was committed to seeing an African country host the World Athletic championship in the near future. “I'm fully committed to seeing World Championships being hosted in Africa and I have spoken to Athletics Kenya and they know that we are looking forward to the event happening soon,” noted Coe. He added that Kenya is unique due to its love and passion for athletics and the unique quality of Kenyan athletes, who have been a dominant force in the sport for a very long time. World Athletic officials visited Kenya in April to inspect Moi International Sports Centre (MISC),  Kasarani Stadium and assess the country's preparedness for the World Championship. President Uhuru  Kenyatta was at the forefront of championing Kenya’s bid to host the event, which would have meant Africa hosting the 10-day Championship for the first time ever. Kenya is mulling whether to host the event in 2027. 