Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka claims Deputy President William Ruto will beat up Kenyans if he ascends to power as the fifth President of Kenya. Kalonzo said the Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate has a high temper with too much anger. He claimed Ruto roughed up late former Eldoret North MP Reuben Chesire at State House in Eldoret during late retired President Daniel Moi's regime. "Some people claim President Uhuru Kenyatta is bitter. I want to tell you, I know Uhuru and I know Ruto. They are my younger brothers," Kalonzo said. "Lakini Ruto hasira ako nayo ni ya ajabu. I want my brother Ruto to deny beating up late former Eldoret North MP Reuben Chesire at State House in Eldoret. Moi loved peace, I remember that incident. If Ruto becomes President, he will beat you up." Kalonzo made the sentiments as he addressed a public rally to drum support for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga in Kangundo, Machakos County on Thursday, July 14. "So, it's a fact that Uhuru can't beat someone and that's why he said his deputy was bitter," Kalonzo said. Kalonzo said if Azimio forms the next government, it will seal all loopholes for looting public funds. "They steal public funds and use the money to bribe you, I get annoyed. The money which we will use to educate our children from class one to university as from next year, the money those people have been stealing," Kalonzo said. "We will block everywhere. We want dignity for all Kenyans, everyone to have the heart and feeling that they are proud Kenyans. Let's pray because this time Kenya is in danger, " he added. He said some leaders if elected will make the country get in a bad direction. "The reason I decided to wait and support Raila for the third time is that this is a time you should know there is no joke. We shouldn't put people into leadership who will make Kenyans suffer more," Kalonzo said. He was accompanied by Matungulu MP Stephen Mule and Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege. Mule said Azimio will defeat Ruto whether he is bitter or not. He said as Azimio supporters were not reducing but kept on increasing in numbers. "We have seen results of conducted polls. Kenya Kwanza members keep on reducing in numbers on daily basis, while Raila- Kalonzo camps keep increasing. Raila has said if we get leadership on August 9th, education will be free from Grade One to university. We don't want to be cheated by angry people, " Mule said. Mule said Ruto should accept defeat, pack and go home after the August polls. "Kenyans have decided that the fifth President is Raila Odinga," Mule said. Chege urged the Kamba nation to support Kalonzo in campaigning for Raila and vote for him for the Presidency on poll day. "I have never voted Raila. But, this time round we looked around and realised that those others contesting for the seat don't mean good for the country, they are bitter. "You had Ruto say he was about to slap Uhuru, again Wamalwa and Matiang'i. If the deputy president wants to slap the President, what will you be done to if you give him Presidency," Chege said.