Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko has downplayed bitter political rivalry with Governor Okoth Obado as he seeks votes to be the next county chief. Deputy President William Ruto and Kenya Kwanza have alleged a plan to use them for rigging. “But in next polls Obado, who according to law will step aside after serving his two terms, will not be on the ballot. We might have ideological differences but it wasn’t and will never be personal,” Ayacko said. He spoke on Saturday at Koigo in Uriri constituency when he received blessing from Kanyamkago clan elders where Obado also hails from. “We had differences with Obado as we were both on the ballot seeking votes, but now he won’t be there. Just tell your son to also make peace with Raila Odinga who is not on the ballot with him,” Ayacko said. He said Obado had vowed in the past that he would not support his bid to replace him and has supported former Migori MP John Pesa on DAP-K ticket. Ayacko respects his wish. “I respect his choice. He can choose to support and vote for any candidate of his wish as his democratic right. I am not angry because of that,” Ayacko said. The ceremony was led by former Uriri MP John Kobado, who also hails from Kanyamkago clan. The elders said they choose to back Ayacko amid fears that once elected there was going to be a vendetta. “We know as a clan we had the governor seat. The elders have sought job security for those employed and have an executive and a chief officer from the clan in the next administration,” Kobado said. He said because of Obado's decision to be the Nyanza point man for Deputy President William Ruto and the acrimonious fallout with Azimio candidate Raila Odinga, they were out to secure their political future. But Ayacko said his rivals have used his differences with Obado “to create panic over job security. I won’t fire anybody from work in the county government. In leadership, holding to anger can destroy service delivery like seen in the past. It won’t happen under me. “Sin is never cured by sin, but by a good deed. We will seek God’s guidance in healing and curing the county as we embark on building a working administration,” Ayacko said. In 2017 Ayacko on independent ticket and Obado on ODM ticket had a heated campaign whose results ended up in a court petition. Two years later during a senator by-election following the death of Ben Okello, Obado campaigned against Ayacko and resisted attempts at reconciliation by Raila. Later Obado accused Ayacko of using his seat to undermine him as he was being investigated over corruption. He broke ranks with ODM leader Raila and the party and went ahead to support Ruto’s bid. Edited by Henry Makori