Kenya Breweries has boosted Kisumu RFC with a sponsorship of Sh2 million ahead of this weekend’s Dala Sevens to be held at Jomo Kenyatta Stadium. Dala Sevens, which is the fourth leg of the 2022 National Sevens Circuit, will be making a return to the lakeside city after a two-year hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Following the sponsorship, the Tusker brand has acquired the rights to be the tournament as an official alcohol beverage partner as has been the case with the previous events in the series (Kabeberi, Christie, and Driftwood Sevens). The brand, which is celebrating its 100-year milestone, will also sponsor the event’s after-party. The donation follows similar sponsorships by the company for the just concluded Kabeberi Memorial Sevens, which kicked off the National Rugby Sevens Circuit, and Christie Sevens both of which were played at the RFUEA grounds in Nairobi, and Driftwood Sevens held in Mombasa a fortnight ago. Tusker brand marketing manager Jean Okech said they are happy to be associated with the tournament and are hopeful that the sponsorship will ensure its success. He added: “We are very proud to once again announce our sponsorship for this year’s Dala Sevens. "For many years, this tournament has been one of the most exciting in the Series Calendar and that’s thanks to the high level of competition and the enthusiasm of the fans from the region. "We are hopeful that this year’s event, which is returning after two years, will live up to its expectations and that our sponsorship will contribute to its success,” he said. Dala Sevens tournament director, Erick Ondieki said they are happy to have KBL and Tusker on board for this year’s Dala Sevens. “Preparations for the event are fully complete with all teams confirmed and drawn up. "Going by the high level of competitiveness that we have seen in the previous rounds of the series, we expect nothing short of top performances from the teams. "We also expect a great turn-out of rugby fans to come out in their numbers as they have always done in the past to cheer on their teams and enjoy themselves at the event,” added Ondieki. The tournament which is hosted by Kisumu RFC is set to feature some of the top Sevens teams in the circuit including Driftwood Sevens champions Mwamba who have been pooled alongside Nondescripts, Nakuru RFC, and hosts Kisumu RFC. Mwamba open the leg against host Kisumu before taking on Nakuru and Nondescripts. No team has won a double but KCB, the Kabeberi Sevens champions have a slim lead with 58 points at the top followed by Christie Sevens champions Strathmore Leos (53) then Mwamba on 48. Others are —Homeboyz (38), Harlequins (33), Kabras (25), Daystar (24), Western Bulls (23) and Nakuru 23. After finishing second, the Oilers lead Pool B alongside Kabras, Daystar University, and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. Bronze medal winners KCB lead Pool C alongside Strathmore Leos, Impala Saracens and Blak Blad while bronze medal losers Homeboyz take on Kenya Harlequins, Zetech Oaks, and Catholic Monks.