The electoral agency on Friday said no extra ballot papers would be printed by Greek firm Inform Lykos for the August 9 general election. Extra ballot papers could be used to distort the vote. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission entered into a contract with a Greek firm, Inform P. Lykos SA,to print serialised ballot papers that correspond to the exact number of registered voters for the contested seats. The IEBC said a total of 132,190,610 ballot papers would be churned out for president, MP, senator, woman representative, governor and MCA. At least 22,120,458 ballot papers would be printed for the presidential race, which has attracted four candidates including DP William Ruto of Kenya Kwanza and Azimio leader Raila Odinga. Also in the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession race is Roots Party leader George Wajackoyah and Agano Party’s David Mwaure. For Members of the National Assembly, the IEBC said it would print 22,102,532 ballot papers, the same for governor and senator seats. The IEBC said it would print 21,674,465 ballots for county woman representatives, which is slightly lower than the other seats since the Kericho Woman MP candidate will run unopposed. For MCAs, the printer would print 22,088,091 ballot papers, considering that candidates for a ward in Baringo and Garissa will also run unopposed. IEBC commissioner Francis Wanderi said the decision was taken as part of the commission’s desire to deliver a free, fair, transparent and credible election. “The commission is ready to deliver this year’s elections. It has a plan that is guiding the commission in carrying out its mandate,” he said in Nairobi. Speaking at a media summit convened by the Media Council of Kenya and Katiba Institute, Wanderi expressed confidence that the IEBC would deliver a credible election. “There would be no addition of, say, five per cent or 10 per cent of the volumes we are printing. That will not happen this time around,” the IEBC commissioner said. “We are expecting that the printing will be completed in the next few days. Our team is with representatives of political parties, religious leaders and stakeholders to assess the process,” Wanderi said. Also present at the event were ICT Principal Secretary Esther Koimett, Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu, NCIC chief executive officer Skitter Ocharo, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights CEO Bernard Mogesa , ODPP representative Vincent Monda, CAJ and a representative of the National Police Service. Koimett called upon the media to be truthful in their reportage as they have a key role in aiding public participation. “We must see the media as an anchor of the truth. They are a target of hate, hence, fact-checking should become part and parcel of news reporting,” the PS said. She restated the government respects the role of the media, hence, the significant support it has continued to extend. “We just have one country and we must make sure we love this country and that we do our part,” the PS said. The National Commission on Human Rights said they were  concerned about cases of violence in the ongoing campaigns, insecurity in Kerio Valley and Marsabit, and heightened criminal activities. Mogesa said they had also taken note of rampant misuse of state resources and involvement of children in political rallies. ODPP, in the presentation by Vincent Monda, said they have established a full-fledged hate speech division to handle electoral justice-related matters. He disclosed that the ODPP has a toll-free number of 0800723377 or +254110939802, which Kenyans can use to report any violations of electoral laws. Nderitu of the ORRP said her office has deployed 365 monitors checking adherence to the electoral code of conduct. “We have taken action by warning the political parties. Due to the monitoring, breaches have reduced,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)