DAP-Kenya members in Busia have unanimously endorsed the candidature of ODM’s Paul Otuoma in the race to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong. The members drawn from Busia’s 35 wards said on Tuesday the decision to back Otuoma was informed by the party’s resolution to rally support behind one Azimio candidate. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi is the DAP-Kenya candidate in the race. DAP-Kenya Busia chairman Martin Kafwa said despite having a candidate in the governor contest, they chose to join Otuoma’s team because he exhibits higher chances of emerging victorious. “We have our candidate but this is a decision made by DAP-Kenya members. We will work with Otuoma so that Azimio wins the governorship in Busia because Otuoma is a stronger candidate,” he said. He said the move was also meant to ensure members in all parties allied to the Azimio coalition campaign as a team for presidential candidate Raila Odinga. Kafwa at a press briefing in Busia town said with party members in the border county agreeing to work with the ODM and other Azimio affiliate parties, the coalition will win majority seats in Busia. “This is an important day for DAP-Kenya because we have decided to back Paul Otuoma in his bid to become governor and we have promised to work closely with him,” he said. “From today (Tuesday) we will be working as one Azimio La Umoja team in Busia county moving towards the election.” The choice by the DAP-Kenya team to back Otuoma now leaves Mulomi’s quest to succeed Ojaamong hanging in the balance. Mulomi has been campaigning although on a low-key-tone traversing mainly his home subcounty of Butula. “Our first assignment will be to campaign for ODM leader Raila Odinga and make sure he becomes the fifth president of this country. Our second assignment is to again campaign and make sure Otuoma becomes the second governor of Busia county,” Kafwa said. “All of us belong to the Azimio coalition and as members of DAP-Kenya, we want to welcome Otuoma to this bigger team so that we can work together and develop Busia as one Azimio family.” DAP-Kenya officials who attended the press briefing included Azimio county coordinator and county assembly speaker Benard Wamalwa, woman representative contender Everlyne Ikwii and MP aspirants Isaac Omeri (Nambale) and Nobert Wang’alwa (Butula). DAP-Kenya MCA aspirants from all 35 wards that make up Busia were also present. Ikwii said with the unity exhibited by members of the Azimio coalition, Azimio will win the August 9 election. “As DAP-Kenya members, we have decided that we will walk together with Otuoma. This is because we have said as members of Azimio if we work and walk together we will win and if we don’t work and walk together we will fail in county politics and even nationally,” she said. Kafwa said Mulomi had been invited to attend a meeting in which the decision by DAP-Kenya members to join Otuoma was reached but the deputy governor did not honour the invitation. He denied claims they were forced to support Otuoma. Kafwa said the team will come up with a rigorous campaign programme to popularise Otuoma and Raila in the county. Wamalwa expressed confidence that with members of Azimio agreeing to work as a team, the coalition will bag a majority of seats. “I'm happy with this development and I want to give the people of Busia an assurance that the Azimio team will travel the journey to August 9 as one group,” he said. Otuoma’s running mate Arthur Odera expressed confidence they will win the August polls against Mulomi, Dan Mogoria and Michel Oloo. Otuoma gave the DAP-Kenya fraternity hope that as a member of the ODM, he will not abandon people from other Azimio affiliate parties. “We will work together and we will form the next government as one team. We will embrace one another,” Otuoma said. Edited by A.N