The more I learn about my colleague Sgt Sophia, especially now that we’re carrying on an office romance, the more I’m scared of her. For starters, she’s a very smart woman — way smarter than any woman I’ve ever met (who aren’t many, by the way), excluding my mother. You’ll agree with me when I say all mothers are ingenious. On this occasion, Wa Munene, Chief’s son, is a suspect in a case involving the theft of my police pistol, which was then used to murder an old man in Jiji Ndogo. We need to interrogate him, but first we had to go past his father, the crazy local chief who won’t hesitate to use his AK47 to shoot at the moon if he deems it too bright for his liking. To this end, Sophia lies to Chief that she’s pregnant with Wa Munene’s baby to gain entrance into Chief’s compound. Chief slaps his son upside the head. “You stupid boy. Why didn’t you tell me I was going to have a grandbaby?” Wa Munene is shellshocked. “But… I didn’t know.” He socks him again. “What do you mean you don’t know?” “I mean, she and I, we haven’t even—” “Tested,” Sophia cuts in. “We need to head to the hospital and get it done right away.” “Of course.” Chief stands up. “I’ll come along.” “You don’t have to, Chief. We’ll bring you the results.” Wa Munene smells a rat and refuses to come along. Sophia removes her handcuffs. “Chief, with your permission?” “What’re you doing?” cries Wa Munene. “Go ahead, future daughter-in-law,” says Chief. “If he doesn’t want to go, make him. No man in my clan ever denied a pregnancy.” And that’s how we get Wa Munene to the Police Post in handcuffs. “I love you,” he says. “You didn’t have to do all this. You could’ve just called and I’d have come.” I frown at Sophia. “And to think we almost got shot by Chief.” Wa Munene lifts up his cuffed hands. “Is this for role-play or something? Me bad guy, you cop?” “No,” she says softly and produces a letter. “It’s about this love message you wrote me. In it, you say you’re glad Makini will be out of the way so you and I can be lovers again.” “He’s going to jail, isn’t he?” “No, I’m not!” I bark. “My gun was—” “Shut up! Makini.” She flaps long, gorgeous eyelashes at Wa Munene. “What do you know about that, Wa Munene?” He drops his gaze. “It’s all over the village. Everyone knows he shot that old dude.” “Everyone, huh? What are they saying was his motive for shooting him?” He shrugs. “Who knows? Maybe he doesn’t like old dudes. Or maybe the geezer looked at you wrong.” “Looked at me?” “Everyone knows Makini has a jealous streak. Remember you and I, on our first date? He cleared the restaurant to spoil it.” “That had nothing to do with you,” I lament. “The restaurant had no valid health licence.” “Yeah, right. You’ll do anything to have Sophia.” “What about you, Wa Munene?” Sophia’s voice is so endearing, I’m for real beginning to be jealous. “What would you do to have me?” He smoulders. “I’ll do anything for you, baby.” “Like steal my gun and shoot an old man?” I ask. “You shot that old man in the heart, not me.” Sophia and I exchange glances. “Wa Munene,” Sophia says. “You’re under arrest for the murder of McOnyango Senior.” “What? Why?” “Only the police and the killer know the man was shot in the heart.”