Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali's reelection received a boost on Thursday after Burji elders and professionals draped him in purple and endorsed him, The elders also backed Godana Hargura for Senate and Nasra Ibrahim for woman representative. The elders led by chairman Musa Lio pledged to support the governor and his deputy, Solomon Gubo, in the August 9 general election. They called the two visionary leaders focused on improving the welfare of the people and lifting the region's economy. Lio applauded governor for upholding the rights of every minority community. Musa said the community will join forces with other communities to support and vote for Governor Mohamud. He cited health, infrastructure and education among the sectors Mohamud has immensely transformed. "The governor has done some tremendous work and deserves another chance to accomplish his agenda for the community, Lio said. He commended governor Mohamud for issuing title deeds, distributing plastic water tanks and a scholarship programme that benefitted hundreds of needy students. "We as the Burji community elders are fully behind the governor's reelection bid and pledge to convince voters from our community to vote for him." he said. He appealed to other communities in the county to support and vote for him to accomplish various development projects his administration has initiated. Community elder Hajj Adan Sarbo welcome governor's decision to start building a medical training college in the county at the county's headquarters. He said it will boost the economy of the region,  enabling young people to get training in their own county. "We are supporting the governor's re-election because his administration has done much to develop the county in his first term," Sarbi said. "We feel he deserves another opportunity to serve our county, he has a track record in addressing our myriad needs," he said. He cautioned candidates for all elective seat to refrain from engaging election malpractices to enable voters to elect leaders with a high sense of integrity. Burji's professionals led by Ali Guleid said their decision to endorsed Mohamud for a second term to complete his first-term achievements in all critical sectors of the county economy. He praised the administration's scholarship programme, calling it a  step towards social-economic development and lessening the financial burden on less fortunate people. "Our people have benefited a lot from Governor Mohamud's administration in infrastructure and jobs for young people," he said. . Most of the activities are for sustainable development, he said. Governor Mohamud thanked the elders and professionals and promised to continue to improve the community's livelihood. He said he was  an all-around leader committed to serving everyone fairly. Governor said the elders have immense powers to ensure candidates and their supporters avoid election offences. The UDM deputy party leader rallied the residents, saying through him, Kenya will be liberated. Governor Mohamud welcomed to his camp former FAP Women's League leader Ailo Adan Daro. Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo Riwe thanked the elders for the endorsement and praised Mohamud for many development projects that transform people's lives. He said their administration would continue being transparent. Riwe  urged residents to vote wisely and avoid acts that would threaten peace before, during and after the election. He emphasised the need for a formidable alliance, saying no community will get elected on their own without the support of other communities. He said alliances promote unity. (Edited by V. Graham)