Marsabit county first lady Alamitu Guyo Jattani has intensified campaigns for her husband in Sololo in a bid to woo voters to back his second term bid. She urged residents to turn up in large numbers to exercise their democratic right and vote for Governor Mohamud and his political partners in August General Elections. "Sololo people, I urge you to come out on the voting day and vote for him," said Alamitu She emphasized the need to have a formidable alliance with other communities in order to win the seat. Alamitu said the Rendile and Gurreh community would only support the governor if they vote for Godana Hargura for the Senate seat and Nasra Ibrahim for the women's representative seat. Speaking at a different centre in the Uran ward, the county's first lady said the area needs a team player who can promote a good working relationship with the national government. She highlighted the governor's track record in his first term in office, citing a scholarship program that has already benefitted hundreds of students from poor family backgrounds, construction of both Sololo level four hospital and medical training college, completion of mother and child complex and modern market in Saku among other projects governor Mohamud initiated. She also mentioned other development projects in the county under governor Mohamud-led administration, including infrastructure development and improved healthcare reform in the county. She pledged to initiate many more development projects through her office to empower women, youth and people living with disabilities if the governor gets re-elected. In a meeting with a women's group in Lataka, the governor's wife urged women in the sub-county to support the governor's bid for him to build on the foundation he laid down in his first term. She assured the county's youths who made a commitment to support the governor that the government will work harder to achieve more development projects in his next administration. "For the continuity of the good work, I urge you to continue supporting him in his re-election bid." She commended the youth's hard work which she described as what is needed to make the county prosper. Alamitu assured the group that governor Mohamud would not take advantage of their unwavering support, urging them to play active roles in making the county an enviable place, saying they are the future of the county. She also drummed up support for Raila's presidential bid, saying he has the capacity to lead the country. The first lady described the ODM leader as a person who can transform the country from its current situation. She called for peaceful coexistence for development to take place in the county, saying in his first two years of governor Mohamud, the issues of insecurity and coronavirus undermined development. "Our county would be beautiful if we live in harmony with one another." Women leader Fatuma Adan hailed governor Mohamud's focus on higher education. She said education is a catalyst for talent development. She added that the plan to introduce free polytechnic training in the county is on target as it produces workforces that are essential for the county's economy. Fatuma said, his leadership has impacted positively on the lives of the people since his assumption of office. "Governor Mohamud always seeking ways to better the lives of the residents across the county through the initiation of several empowerment programmes." Youth leader Nuri Abakule commended the governor for fulfilling the majority of his electoral promises to the people. He said the governor Mohamud-led administration had made tremendous marks in youth engagement through the youth-friendly program. "We thanked the governor for engaging  youths through different youth programs like internships." He hailed the governor for banishing youth unemployment, and pledged their support, saying he deserves another term " The governor has a proven record. He is a better candidate and I ask all the people to support his re-election bid."