Henrik Stenson, Jason Kokrak and Charles Howell III have joined the LIV Golf series, completing the 48-man field for its next tournament. Swede Stenson was removed as Europe’s Ryder Cup captain on Wednesday morning, with LIV Golf later confirming he was joining the breakaway series along with American duo Kokrak and Howell III. Fellow major winners Phil Mickelson, Sergio Garcia, Patrick Reed, Brooks Koepka, Dustin Johnson and Bryson DeChambeau have already signed up for the new Saudi Arabia-funded tour. The third event of the series, the LIV Golf Invitational Bedminster, will run from 29-31 July at Trump National Golf Club in New Jersey. Speaking after winning The Open on Sunday, Cameron Smith did not rule out joining LIV Golf. Former Masters champion Hideki Matsuyama has also been linked with the event. LIV Golf are also reportedly tabling bids for Smith’s fellow Australian Marc Leishman and two-time Masters champion Bubba Watson. Paul Casey, a 21-time winner as a pro and five-time European Ryder Cup team member, will make his LIV debut in a field that will showcase 10 major champions with a combined 20 majors won. Stenson was announced in mid-March as Europe’s successor to former Ryder Cup captain Padraig Harrington, but was stripped of the captaincy when it became apparent he was jumping ship to the rebel LIV Series, which has found itself in conflict with the DP World Tour, formerly the European Tour. Americans Mickelson and Johnson, Spaniard Garcia, South African Louis Oosthuizen and Englishmen Ian Poulter and Lee Westwood will make their third straight appearances since the circuit debuted last month outside London. South Africans Charl Schwartzel and Branden Grace won the first two tournaments of the inaugural LIV season at London and Portland, respectively. Both men will be in the field in New Jersey. Greg Norman, CEO and commissioner of LIV Golf, said: “It’s been a historic two months for LIV Golf as we’ve established a new era for the sport that delivers unique energy, camaraderie, and competition. “In just six rounds of live action, we have created a golf environment that has captured the world’s attention and attracted young, passionate fans around the globe. “We are excited to take another giant leap forward at the beautiful Trump National Golf Club Bedminster where our players are eager to tee off in pursuit of the third individual and team titles of the season.” The LIV Series, fronted by two-time Open champion Norman, is running eight invitational events this year with a total prize fund of £200m.