Former Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye on Saturday night promised to include non-Maasai in his government if elected, saying the county is cosmopolitan. Nkedienye is seeking to reclaim the seat he lost to Governor Joseph Lenku in 2017. He said Kajiado is a cosmopolitan county and that his Cabinet would portray the diversity of ethnicities in the region. Nkedianye spoke at a youth church service in Kitengela on Saturday night. “We will build the economy of this great county as a united people without looking at tribal lines because we are all Kenyans,” said Nkedianye. Nkedianye, who has picked his running mate from the Kikuyu community, defended his choice of MP Joseph Manje, saying his national CDF is one of the most exemplary in the country. “I picked Manje because he is competent and will help me reconstruct this county again after those you elected in the last election messed up all the county government services,” claimed Nkedianye. The former governor said while he was in power between 2013 and 2017, he ensured that the people of Loitokitok, Emali, Mashuuru, Sultan Hamud, Kitengela, Ongata Rongai, and Ngong towns received clean water. He claimed that all the towns he mentioned are now using the life-threatening hard water from boreholes. “Kiserian and Ongata Rongai towns never experienced a shortage of water when I was governor because I ensured Kenya Power and Lighting bills were paid in time at the Kiserian water plant,” said Nkedianye. The ex-governor said the county is endowed with a lot of natural resources which include tourism at the community level, building stones, and sand mining. “Our hospitals should have drugs and all medical staff paid in time to deliver services to the people of Kajiado. Currently, the hospitals have remained like shells because there are no drugs and doctors are not motivated,” claimed Nkedianye. Governor Joseph Lenku, while responding to Nkedianye, blamed the National Treasury for the delays in sending devolved equitable funds to the county. “We cannot operate without cash for paying bills, drugs for our hospitals that stand at millions of shillings,” said Lenku. The former governor was accompanied by Kajiado Jubilee Woman Rep candidate Simaiyai Rakita and Kajiado East MP candidate Marina Kelly. Earlier in the day, Nkedianye had political rallies in Mile 46 town, and Kenya Marble Quarries in Iloodokilani ward where he received defectors from ODM and UDA parties. The Jubilee governor candidate said the marble quarries in Kajiado West are the largest in the country and the county government receives hundreds of millions every year. Established in 1923 in the heart of Kajiado, KMQ is mining marble, granite, and terrazzo for flooring, headstones, and industrial minerals.