Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has denied having any business relations with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. In a statement responding to a report linking him to the Greek firm contracted to print ballot papers for the August general election, the senator said the report by Daily Nation is malicious and false. Wetang'ula also told the Orange Democratic Movement party to keep him off their election troubles. "ODM must keep me out of their election woes and come to the reality that they are once again starring at a disastrous election outing," Wetang'ula said. ODM leaders alleged that the move was part of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance's plot to rig the August 9 polls. "I have never had any business relationship with IEBC. I know nothing about ballot printing or any printing business for that matter!! I have no relationship of any kind with the person named in the story as Joshua Abdalla Makokha." The Daily Nation in its report claimed that the senator's aide met with officials of the Greek company hired to print the ballot papers in June 2021. It said that the aide, Joshua Abdalla Makokha, travelled to Athens to meet the officials. Wetang'ula in his response, however, denied knowing the said individual. He added that the report is a diversion from real election issues like fighting corruption, high cost of living, debt burden, state capture and conflicts of interest in the management of public affairs. "Furthermore, there appears to be a hopelessly spirited malicious witch-hunt against leaders holding political opinions that are seen as going against or challenging the so-called system." The Bungoma senator said he had instructed his lawyers to take action against the Daily Nation. "If any letters were written on letterheads indicating they are from the Bungoma senator’s office, they must be forgeries!! I have never written such letters. I do not and I repeat, I do not know the three foreigners being referred to," Wetang'ula said. On Tuesday, Azimio secretary general Junet Mohamed called on IEBC, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to immediately begin investigations on the senator's relationship with Inform Lykos (Hellas) SA and take action to protect the election from any form of interference. He also demanded that IEBC to make public information on measures they have put in place to ensure there will be no lapse during the election. Wetang'ula is alleged to have invited Awa David Anderson, Antonio Ramon Fernandez and Gkrekis Konstantinos to Kenya for a week from January 14, 2021. On June 10, he is also alleged to have written to the Greek Ambassador to Kenya Antonios Sgourpoulos to grant Joshua Abdalla Makokha a Schengen visa so he could travel to Athens, Greece. The request was made just two months before the company was awarded the tender.