Deputy President William Ruto has called upon his main opponent Raila Odinga of the Azimio La Umoja Coalition to reconsider his decision of not attending the presidential debate scheduled for Tuesday. “I want to encourage my competitor, Mr. Kitendawili ( Raila) , please I want to urge you to reconsider I will be waiting for you at the debate,” he said Speaking during a campaign stop in Nandi Hills on Monday, Ruto asked Raila to attend the debate even if he doesn't have any policies to explain to Kenyans. “I am asking him to come if not for any other reason it is so that he can tell Kenyans what is Tibim and Tialala. These Kenyans want to know what is the essence of these folktales you usually tell at your rallies. Even if you do not have a policy, just come and tell Kenyans that,” the United Democratic Alliance presidential candidate stated. On Sunday morning, Azimio la Umoja spokesperson Makau Mutua hinted that Raila might not attend the presidential debate. The coalition noted that having Ruto and Raila on the same platform this year would be a bad idea. Mutua claimed Ruto had issued his reservations telling the moderators not to focus on corruption and integrity- issues which Azimio wanted to take centre stage. “Our opponent has no regard for ethics, public morals or shame, that is why he has demanded that the debate not focus on corruption, integrity, ethic and governance- the key existential question that Kenya faces. These issues sit at the core of the Azimio campaign. Any debate devoid of these questions will be an insult to the intelligence of Kenyans,” he said. However, Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate William Ruto claimed that Raila Odinga will miss the presidential debate because he has no agenda for the country. Speaking in Kisii on Sunday, Ruto said that Raila has no plans for the country and has nothing to tell Kenyans. "There is only one plan in Kenya. Our competitors don't have a plan, they don't have an agenda. That is why they cannot articulate any agenda," he said. Ruto  noted that Raila has opted out of the presidential debate because Kenyans have demanded to have a leader who has clarity on what he wants to do for the country and its future. The Presidential debate will be held at the Catholic University for Eastern Africa (CUEA) from 5 pm to 10 pm on Tuesday Five renowned journalists have been selected to host the debate. They are; Smriti Vidyarthi (NTV), Ken Mijungu ( KTN News), Yvonne Okwara (Citizen TV), Eric Latiff (Spice FM & KTN News) and Joe Ageyo (NTV).