A girls’ secondary school in Kwale county has incorporated a talent nurturing component in its curriculum. The Developing Nurturing Skill school-based programme is meant to build a climate for nurturing talents in co-curriculum activities among the students. Kwale Girls Secondary School principal Anastacia Musili said the introduction of co-curriculum activities and games has empowered the students by assisting them in recognising their hidden potential. “The activities are meant to develop communication skills, give students an experience of fellowship and mutual aid, which are essential ingredients of a well balanced personality,” she said. Musili, who was speaking during the school’s cultural day last week, said the institution has provided facilities for a number of co-curricular activities designed as Talent Search Programmes. She said they believe that cultural festivals allow the children to blossom and thrive, besides giving them the right platform where they will work towards becoming responsible citizens. The occasion also provides the girls with a platform to showcase their traditional dresses, artifacts, traditional songs and dances and modelling skills. "We use the cultural day to mentor the students into other fields other than the academics," Musili said. "We have very good girls who are not performing well in academics, but they can perform well in other fields like music, modelling and beauty therapy.” The principal said the approach has propelled the school in academic performance and, at the same time, instilled discipline among the students. Musili further said the school has created an online engagement platform with parents and guardians where they are encouraged to play their roles actively in collaboration with the school administration to enhance discipline among the students. John Ogesi, a board member and a parent at the school, said the cultural platform has helped in mould the student’s character and behaviour. He said the school also believes that cultural festivals will allow the children to blossom in other fields apart from academics.  (edited by Amol Awuor)