Machakos governor candidate Nzioka Waita and his running mate Florence Mwangangi have launched their manifesto after intense campaigns. Several meet-the-people tours to collect views from the public across 40 wards formed the basis of the manifesto launched on Saturday. “We have gone across the whole of Machakos county and collected the views of our residents and what they want is the development and not politics of poverty, and this is the team,” Waita said. The former State House Chief of Staff said his government will aim at achieving a Metropolitan status for Machakos by 2027. While outlining their agenda for urban planning, Waita noted that Machakos has the potential of achieving a city status and that they are committed to ensuring the ambition is realised. "I want us to achieve Metropolitan status for Machakos by 2027, and receive the key for city status by 2032 and that will be achieved through proper planning and this is the team to actualise it,” he added. The manifesto has prioritised health and education with the proposed employment of 2,000 additional teachers and at least one youth polytechnic in every ward and the addition of Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE) classes. Waita further said his ticket with Mwangangi, popularly known as Suluhu, presents a clear agenda for the people of Machakos. Mwangangi said that their team presents competence, experience and integrity and urged Machakos residents to vote them in on August 9. “We served in the national government in various capacities and delivered, and with our experience, I am sure we are going to deliver in the county of Machakos,” Mwangangi added. Other agendas highlighted in Waita-Suluhu manifesto include agriculture, environment, ease of doing business in the county as well as addressing the perennial water challenges facing the county. Machakos governor’s seat has attracted five candidates. Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, former Transport and Infrastructure CAS Wavinya Ndeti, Deputy Governor Francis Maliti and  Rose Mulwa of the Empowerment and Liberation Party.