Lamu Island has witnessed the first commissioning of a new television series as it gears towards raising its profile as the perfect film-making destination. This follows the launch Sanura, which has been described as an emotive and thrilling telenovela. The entire series was shot in the region with the set happening on the picturesque Lamu Island together with its sister islands of Pate and Shela. The official launch took place in a colourful event at the Mkunguni Square in Lamu Island on Monday night, attended by renown Kenyan actors and film producers. The included Eddie Kimani, Ivy Wanjiku, Isack Gerson, Nyota Waziri and Sele Mzamil, among others. Speaking at the event, renowned filmmaker and executive producer of the drama series Daudi Anguka said the series is a story about a young woman caught between preserving ancient tradition and forging her own path. “Sanura is set to premiere on Maisha Magic Plus, beginning Tuesday, July 19 at 7.30pm East African Time and will also be aired every weeknight, at the same time,” Anguka said. He said Lamu’s rich Swahili heritage has lent Sanura its authenticity as the new telenovela majorly seeks to promote and sell the culture and heritage of Lamu to the rest of the globe. Lamu Old Town is a Unesco World Heritage Site having been listed in 2001 owing to its preserved culture and heritage spanning decades and is also a major tourist destination in the county. Anguka said the show helps not only preserve Kenya’s culture but also solidify the grasp of the Swahili language. “We have been here since April when we began shooting and would want the world to experience the feel," he said. This show will promote tourism and help change the perceptions that people have for long held about Lamu due to security issues. Lamu is safe and this show proves just that,” Anguka said. The channel head for Maisha Magic Plus Margaret Mathore said Lamu is endowed with outstanding shooting locations that need to be explored. She said the epic telenovela is the latest in Maisha Magic Plus’s commitment to bring authentic Kenyan stories to the screen. Mathore also said the new show comes in to replace yet another titillating drama series Pete which was shot in Kwale county’s Funzi Island. “Pete has been on for the last five years which is the same period which Sanura will also run on the same platform. We realised the potential of using TV drama series as a way to market the coastal counties of Kwale, Lamu and other exciting destinations in our republic,” she said. Lamu Tourism and Culture executive Dismas Mwasambu said the increasing choice of the county as a destination by filmmakers will not only promote the region as top tourist destination, but will also boost its image. It’s a win-win situation because while they get to sell their show, the county attracts some revenue into the economy,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)