World 800m bronze medallist Mary Moraa wants Kenyan athletes to embrace teamwork in future major championships if they are to win medals. Moraa, who is the reigning Africa champion and had wins in the Diamond League in Rabat and Stockholm earlier in the season, said the country should borrow a leaf from fierce rivals Ethiopia. “If you look at Ethiopians, they run as a team and not like Kenyans. For example, I was the only Kenyan in the final and I was forced to give it my all because there was no one to team up with despite the fierce battle,” she revealed. Moraa clocked a personal best of 1:56.71 to bag bronze with home favourite and Olympic champion  Athing Mu of the USA, winning gold in 1:56:30. Keely Hodkingson of Great Britain settled for silver in 1:56.38. Moraa said she has learned a lot from her predecessors' former world champions Janeth Jepkosgei and Pamela Jelimo and will seek to emulate them in the future. "I thank them for the advice. They have really inspired me and in the future,  I will strive to win gold for my country,” noted Moraa. She said her focus is now on  Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, where she hopes to win gold. “My next target is to go to Birmingham and win gold in the event. I know will not be easy but I will give it my best,” added Moraa. She thanked the fans for supporting her and Team Kenya during the 10-day championship which drew to a close on Sunday. “I read their messages on social media  and we thank  them for supporting us and keeping us in their prayers,"  added Moraa. Elsewhere, Jacob Krop who bagged silver in the men's 5,000m, has attributed his success to self-belief. Krop, who won the Under-20 Africa title in Ivory Coast three years ago,   said he believed in himself and never gave up despite Daniel Simiu and Nicholas Kimeli falling off the pace in the final five laps of the race. “ I never gave up hope and as we prepare for this week's Commonwealth Games, we hope we can compete favourably against the Ugandans and Ethiopians," he noted. Krop clocked 13:09.98 to place second in a race won by Norway's Jakob Ingrebrigste in 13:09.24. Oscar Chelimo of Uganda settled for bronze in 13:10.20. Nicholas Kimeli who had the fastest time this year in the 12-lap race came seventh in 13:11.94 as Daniel Simiu finished a distant  10th in 13:16.64. World 10, 000m champion Joshua Cheptegei finished ninth in 13:13.12.