Most journalists feel safer and comfortable working with the Azimio la Umoja  presidential candidate Raila Odinga than Kenya Kwanza's  William Ruto, a report has showed. The report released by the Media Council of Kenya indicates that 49 per cent feel safer working with Raila while 31 percent feel safer working with Ruto. Roots party George Wajackoyah had 17 percent. "The media's  discomfort is attributed to frequent removal of journalists from Ruto's functions during Parties national delegates conference and public gatherings in Njoro, Nakuru," the report read. MCK claimed that Ruto has publicly threatened to boycott upcoming presidential debate organised by the Media Owner’s Association, the Kenya Editors Guild and the Media Council of Kenya. MCK said Ruto's  supporters have sustained social media hate campaigns against established media by employing derogatory terms to define media and selected journalists. "UDA’s senior communications team also boycotted a meeting convened by the Media Council to forge a working Promoting Media Freedom and Responsible Journalism relationship with pollsters, editors and political party communications teams in June, opting to send junior staff," MCK said. According to the report, Ruto is now ahead in terms of media coverage. Ruto has increased media coverage and overtaken Raila. According to MCK Ruto's coverage volume is at 46 per cent against Raila's 45 per cent. MCK said the increase in Ruto's coverage is attributed to the criticism he received from his opponents during the launch of his manifesto in June 30. "During the period Kenya Kwanza received 14 per cent mention in print media compared to Raila's 12 per cent and 61 per cent coverage in radio against Raila's 58 per cent," said MCK. According to the report Raila retains an edge over Ruto in television coverage at 29 per cent against his opponent's 26 per cent. MCK said it will not relent in its quest for free and fair media governed by ethics in the Code of Conduct. The council has trained 2,500 journalists in preparation of the August polls coverage.