Deputy President William Ruto's bid for presidency suffered a blow Tuesday after several MCA candidates in his Kenya Kwanza coalition affiliate parties in Kisii shifted their allegiance to Azimio la Umoja. The candidates numbering 40 jumped ship Tuesday afternoon during a function at Kamel Park in Kisii. They vowed to back ODM governorship candidate Simba Arati. They further promised to rebrand their respective party offices in the region to reflect Azimio livery. The defection by the candidates comes days after they lamented ‘exclusion and neglect' from their parent parties. Most affected by the defections were Ford Kenya, Chama Cha Mapinduzi and Amani National Congress parties. Those present from UDA were mainly former aspirants who lost tickets at the primaries. The aggrieved candidates had on Saturday given the coalition chiefs an ultimatum of 48 hours to act on their demands, failure to which they explore other options. Among those who shifted loyalty are Charles Lwanga Ongwae, the group forum chair, who accused their parent parties of playing politics of exclusion. "We have been entrusted to sell bottom up yet we have not been empowered ourselves, the leaders are on their own and appear not to be wanting us on their side,” said Ongwae. They singled out UDA governor candidate Ezekiel Machogu for neglecting them and failing to champion their rights as candidates. Dismas Ondara, aka Enduruche, who ditched UDA after he had lost the ticket accused the party of fumbling with the primaries leading to massive fallouts. He said Arati was the change the Kisii residents need, adding that his popularity has grown like wild bush fire. "Whenever you pass in the villages, the political gospel is Arati and we cannot afford to be left behind in this,” said Ondara. They vowed to rebrand the UDA office in Kisii with ODM colours as a sign of ‘solidarity with Arati’. Alex Oyaro, Kenya Kwanza Secretary General in Kisii spoke of cartels in the coalition that continue to stymie its bid to leverage itself in the region. "Ours was not mere threats on Saturday, today we are here to make real of what we had promised,” said Oyaro They were welcomed to the party by Arati at Kamel Park Hotel in Kiogoro, Kisii.