Deputy President William Ruto held a campaign rally at Ukunda bus park in Msambweni on Wednesday to wrap up the first day's activities of his three-day campaign trail in the coastal region. The DP addressed crowds at the Ukunda bus park in Msambweni after commencing the day's activities with rallies in Taita-Taveta and Makueni. Ruto criticised the government for allegedly using police officers to advance the political agenda of his competitors in the Azimio camp. "Don't agree to be used for functions against the Kenyan Constitution. It's not your work to campaign for Azimio," Ruto said. He also took the opportunity to defend himself against claims that he orchestrated the transfer of port activities to the Naivasha Inland Container Depot. He also addressed the land issue. "I have promised that one million acres of absentee land will be bought by the government and given to the landless." The DP further hit out at the government for using unga prices close to the election to woo voters to the Azimio camp led by Raila Odinga. "The way to reduce the cost of living is to reduce the cost of food. The way to reduce the cost of food is to subsidise farm inputs. Subsidising farm inputs is by way of subsiding farm inputs," Ruto said. THe DP is expected to pitch camp in Tana River, Lamu and Kilifi counties from Thursday. He will be selling his bottom up-economic model in Kwale and seeking support for his presidential bid. The coastal region is one of the country's vote-rich baskets that both the Kenya Kwanza and Azimio camps are eyeing with intent. The region boasts of at least 312, 767 registered voters to boost their chances of winning the August 9 general election. Previously, the region was a perceived ODM stronghold but political dynamics changed following a fallout between governor Salim Mvurya and all the four constituency leaders with the party. Currently, Mvurya is backing his deputy Fatuma Achani for the governor seat through the UDA party ticket. MPs Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga-Lunga), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Feisal Bader (Msambweni) are all in UDA except Kasim Tandaza who is vying on the ANC party ticket but supports Ruto under the Kenya Kwanza pact. Last week, the Azimio One Kenya Alliance brigade led by Raila Odinga visited the region where the ODM boss said he is the solution to the region's challenges. Raila traversed all the four Kwale sub-counties where he attacked Ruto for allegedly calling Defense CS Eugene Wamalwa a 'woman'. Raila urged Ruto to apologise for disrespecting women and a fellow leader.