Plan International, Homa Bay government and Association for the Physically Disabled of Kenya have donated assistive devices to 36 children with disabilities to aid in mobility. The Sh1.3 million worth of devices included wheelchairs, standing aids (for children who cannot stand on their own), orthopaedic shoes and boots, AFOS (ankle foot orthoses), elbow conformer, lumbar corset, cork up splints, back slabs and walking frames with wheels. Speaking during the donation at Sero Vocational Training College, Plan International integrated project officer Joseph Mwita said the organisation partnered with APDK to help children access their basic rights, including education, through mobility. “We have given them a number of devices as recommended by specialists, some of which are for corrective purposes and others will provide support in terms of mobility," he said. "We realised that these children are left behind and occasionally, are not supported adequately to enable them to enjoy their basic rights such as education and medical services. It is because of this that we decided to intervene.” Mwita said they have so far distributed assistive devices to 75 children this financial year. "Earlier, we had donated the devices to 39 children and today we have given out to 36 more," he said. Mwita said Plan International is creating awareness targeting the community as well as parents in a bid to change their perception towards children with disabilities. “These interventions are directed towards changing the attitude of parents to ensure they bring the children in for assessments,” he said. Mwita said the programme is undertaken in three areas-Mbita, Rangwe and Asego- in Homa Bay county. He urged stakeholders in the county, including the county and national governments, to support these children. Dr Kenneth Ambuchaba, who works at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, said some children are suffering from a congenital disorder known as cerebral palsy, as shown in their assessments. He said the disorder is caused by gene mutation, fetal infection and lack of oxygen supply to the brain of the fetus. Cerebral palsy causes problems with movement, balance, posture and muscle tone in children. The medic said the devices provided cannot fully rid the children of the disorder. “These devices cannot fully correct the disability. What we are doing is to prevent the children from developing permanent disability,” he said. He urged parents to take their children for therapy, adding that there are challenges that come with cerebral paralysis which they do not know how to handle. “This is a challenge to the parents because they do not know how to deal with these children as most of them cannot talk, walk or sit independently, and so they need support,” he said. Parents whose children benefited from the devices were thankful to the organisation for the support, saying the devices are expensive and they could not afford to buy on their own. Nancy Akoth, a mother to a child with cerebral palsy, said it has not been easy moving from place to place with her two-year-old son who cannot stand or sit without support. She said she came to know of her son’s condition when he was five months old as he could not sit on his own without support. “I took him to hospital where I came to know that he had cerebral palsy. He was later undertaken through an assessment by Plan International, and today we have received these devices which are very important to us,” Akoth said. Edited by A.N