It will soon take motorists less than 40 minutes to drive from Thika Road via Utawala to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) . This comes as the expansion of the Eastern Bypass into a dual carriageway at Sh12.5 billion is 72 percent done. The dualling of the bypass began last November after it was announced that the project would take 12 months. This was after the signing of a contract between Kura and the China Communication Construction Company who will be completing the Sh12.5 billion project. In October last year, the state borrowed Sh2 billion to undertake the dualling of the bypass which stretches from Mombasa Road to the Thika Superhighway. The bypass, one of the Vision 2030 infrastructure projects, was designed during the term of the Grand Coalition government. The dualling of the road, announced by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia in 2017, took time to begin as the government sought funds. The expansion is part of 11 infrastructure projects that the Kenyan government delegation showcased to global investors during the two-day Belt and Road Forum for International Co-operation in Beijing, China, in May 2017. Others include the expansion of both the Southern and Northern bypasses. Chinese firms have increasingly won multibillion-shilling road contracts in Kenya. China Roads and Bridge Corporation is at the tail end of completing the Sh59 billion Nairobi Expressway. The firm has built the 27.1km double-decker highway with privately sourced funds to be recovered through toll charges by its subsidiary, Moja Expressway, which will operate the road for nearly 30 years. Dualling of the road will also boost the proposed Kenyatta family-owned Northlands City that will straddle Eastern Bypass and Thika Superhighway. Northlands City, a mega urban development consisting of residential, industrial and commercial units, will accommodate an estimated 250,000 people. Easy access is key to attracting investors to the city, which is estimated to generate up to 30,000 vehicles per day, spilling onto the Eastern Bypass and 27,000 vehicles per day onto the Thika Superhighway. The Kenya Urban Road Authority had earlier announced that expansion of the 28km road, which stretches through busy centres such as City Cabanas, Pipeline, Utawala and Ruiru, was to be completed by the end of this month. Kura director general Silas Kinoti said the dualling has already eased traffic gridlock along the Eastern Bypass. “The speed of this project is very steadfast and one of the fastest ever in the country. I thank Kenyans for the support and cooperation. The contractor has really done us proud and we hope others will learn from them,” Kinoti said.