Confusion as UDA’s Isiolo Gubernatorial candidate Hussein Tene steps down for Independent candidate Godana Doyo. This narrows the race to succeed Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti to a two man race between Doyo and Nairobi City County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo of the Jubilee Party. “Today, I have officially stepped down for my brother Godana Doyo,”Tene said. He revealed his decision on Sunday evening, when attending a meeting with Doyo. This comes a few days after  TIFA poll revealed that  Doyo is the most popular at 45 per cent followed by Nairobi majority leader Guyo, who is trailing at 34 per cent. Former EACC boss Halakhe Dida of ODM follows at four per cent with Hussein Tene of UDA at two per cent. Tene was among the six Borana leaders who went through the elders screening that chose Doyo as the community’s gubernatorial flag bearer in January. He took an abrupt turn when he later  claimed that the process was hijacked by few selfish elders and that he would be on the ballot as residents will have the final say. On his part, Doyo expressed his gratitude, emphasizing that he will work with Tene. “I thank God because this is a historic moment as a county. We know this because  we are brothers and our ties will not be cut off because of politics,” he said. Other candidates in the race include Kenneth Turibo Maore (PNU) and Kimaita Machuguma of Safina party. Guyo, has teamed up with Jubilee colleagues – incumbent Senator Fatuma Dullo, former Education CAS, woman representative hopeful Mumina Bonaya, and former Isiolo North MP Joseph Samal. Doyo on the other had has joined with other independent candidates including incumbent Woman Rep Rehema Jaldesa, Isiolo North MP Hassan Odha, Isiolo South Jubilee aspirant Mohamed Tupi (Jubilee) and Senate hopeful Nuh Mohamed. The choice of a running mate also plays a crucial role in the race that is increasingly appearing to be a battle of wits. Guyo, who hails from the Sakuye community, has picked James Lowasa, as he banks on the 11, 000 Turkana votes. Hailing from Isiolo’s largest Borana voting bloc, Doyo’s eyes are on the Somali community vote after settling on Omar Hassan as his running mate.