Church leaders have been encouraged to go for further studies to acquire more skills to handle the emerging issues in the country. The National Council of Churches of Kenya said that political, constitutional and economic issues require church leaders who are skilful enough to handle them. The council recognised several church leaders for the role they played in multipartism and constitutional making such as Rev Timothy Njoya of PCEA and Bishop Henry Okullu of the Anglican Church of Kenya. NCCK secretary general Cannon Chris Kinyanjui said church leaders handle congregants who are skilful in different fields, and they need to follow suit. "At times, we lead a flock with a lot of educated people than us. You cannot run away, change the church or do anything. They are there to listen and learn," he said. Kinyanjui further said celebrated clergymen and women give their churches spiritual direction. "Some years ago, we had people like Okullu and Njoya who spoke from their heart. They would articulate issues the way they should be. Some of them included those affecting our church, society and the government because they were learned," the secretary general said. Kinyanjui spoke when he led the NCCK to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with St Paul's University that will see both institutions collaborate to advance joint research, consultancy and community outreach projects. St Paul's University vice chancellor Prof James Kombo signed the MoU on behalf of the institution. The NCCK secretary said the university has been training and doing research for many years and its contribution to the MoU will help it achieve more in consultancy and training. "It is also important that those will consider furthering their education to join the institution since it ecumenical work will boost their training," he said. The signing was held at Jumuiya Conference and Country in Limuru on Wednesday. An NCCK member Pastor Peter Mungai said the approach was good since it will boost christian preaching, management of churches and how to handle politicians and professionals in churches. "If the MoU will be used well, then it will add value to the kind of work we do today in our churches and to the community" the pastor said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)