Residents of Mombasa on Thursday joined the rest of the world to celebrate World Kiswahili Language Day. On November 23 last year, the United Nations designated July 7 as the World Kiswahili Language Day, the official day to celebrate the Swahili language. It is the first African language to be recognised by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco). In Mombasa, the celebration began with a procession from Mombasa’s central business district to Fort Jesus in Old Town, before moving to Swahili Pot where the main ceremony was held. In the ceremony at Swahili Pot various Swahili foods and artefacts were displayed, as the attendees enjoyed Swahili songs and poems from students and adults. Dr Ahmed Yassin, who represented the national chairperson of the National Museums of Kenya called upon the residents of the Coast and the whole country to promote and revive the usage of Kiswahili. "The world has more than 7,000 languages. Over 2,000 of these languages are from Africa, and Kiswahili is in the top ten most spoken languages in the world. This is a heritage that we should be proud of and proudly promote," he said. This year's celebrations are held under the theme ‘Kiswahili for peace and prosperity. Dr Yassin, a distinguished scholar, said that the language can successfully be used to promote peace, especially in Africa as it is spoken by more than two million people. "Many nations in the world are at war and Kiswahili usage can help us counter this menace.  Swahili proverbs, for example, promote peaceful co-existence and give a sense of belonging to people from different tribes," he said. However, the scholar noted that the original dialects of Kiswahili are fast getting lost, and they should be reclaimed and revived fast. "Kiswahili's 15 dialects are getting lost fast. We have to revive them. Let's take pride in using Kiswahili, even in our original dialects," he said. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who is also eyeing the Mombasa County gubernatorial seat, urged the Coastal County Assemblies to lead the rest in promoting the language in their sessions. Nassir lauded the Swahili Cultural Centre in Mombasa for training the Coastal youth in traditional Swahili crafts and business management. He promised to support the institution more if he is elected to serve as governor. The MP said that Mombasa should fully exploit its ability to be the world's learning centre for Kiswahili, and attract foreigners to learning lessons. Besides, Nassir took pride in promoting the usage of Kiswahili in the National Assembly. "I pushed for the standing orders of Parliament to be translated to Kiswahili and introduced motions which were debated in Kiswahili. "Mombasa County Assembly should also translate its standing orders into Kiswahili and have a live translation of the assembly's debate to Kiswahili," he said. Kiswahili is one of the official languages used in the African Union sessions. It is also widely used in the East African Community member states and official sessions. Just this week, Uganda adopted Kiswahili to be their national language and to be taught in schools. The East Africa Community has the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Uganda, and Tanzania. Of these, only South Sudan is yet to have Kiswahili as its lingua franca. Kiswahili is the official language in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda. It is also recognised in Malawi, Madagascar, South Africa, Somalia, Mozambique and Zambia.