The leadership of the Kenya Methodist Church has instructed its lawyers to go to court seeking orders for police protection ahead of Tuesday's annual conference as the fight for the institution's assets worth billions rages. Presiding Bishop Joseph Ntombura said they are apprehensive certain forces within the church were hellbent on causing chaos during the meeting that will culminate in the election of the next head of the church. Ntombura was installed as the presiding bishop of the church in 2013 and is expected to retire at the end of the year having served for the maximum two terms of five years. He told journalists on Saturday that enemies from within were fighting him and the church leadership to have assets valued at over Sh12 billion sold with the aim of plundering the proceeds. "The annual conference is the time for making key decisions of the church and those against the church leadership are keen on disrupting the activities of that day to achieve their selfish agenda," Ntombura said. He said hired goons stormed the church premises in Nairobi in December last year and destroyed computers among other materials. The church has been having long-running battles which Ntombura said were being fueled by certain individuals from within the church including retired bishops. He did not give names. "These people with vested interests want to interfere with the elections scheduled for Tuesday so they can have a way to install leaders who will sanction their wishes," he said. Ntombura said Methodist has assets in all counties except in Mandera and Makueni where the church is yet to establish branches. "We have parcels of land worth billions of shillings. The church owns resort and real estate properties in key towns and a university which they want to be sold and divided among individuals. I am the one standing in their way," he said. He alluded to previous attacks at the church, saying the forces had the backing of powerful individuals within the government. He claimed goons were already being mobilised from as far as Meru to come to Nairobi and cause chaos. Bishop Ntombura pointed an accusing finger at the police whom he said were present during the previous attack but did nothing. It is for this reason that their lawyers will move to court for protection orders. "This time they are threatening to bring a bigger force. I wonder if that will be Kenya Defence Forces," he said. Lawyer Danstan Omari said they had instructions to go to court on Monday seeking orders for the police to protect the lawfully installed leadership of the church and also for security during the annual conference. Among the assets that have been identified for sale according to Ntombura are the Kenya Methodist University and conference and resort facilities in Nairobi. The university's deputy vice-chancellor in charge of academics Reverend Mary Kinoti said the institution was doing well contrary to claims that it was suffering from debts and hence should be sold off. "We have a population of about 8,000 students and also own the 16-floor Kemu Towers in the city centre. People should stop creating issues just to destabilise the institution," Kinoti said. Bishop Ntombura said the Methodist Church is very well devolved with many synods and circuits that own various properties including land and buildings. "Your vow as the presiding bishop is to protect both property and the faithful and that is what I'm determined to do," he said during the press conference at the church's resort and conference centre in Nairobi.