Human Resource Management Professionals Examinations Board (HRMPEB) has released the June 202 examinations results. Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM) Council Chair Dalmas Odero officially released the results on Tuesday at a function held at Mwalimu Towers, Nairobi. While releasing the results, Odero said a total of 1330 candidates were examined in 22 papers during the June 2022 Examinations series. Out of this number, 259 (19.5 per cent) were male and 1,071 (80.5 per cent) were female. He said the examination subjects were drawn from the three levels of CHRP curriculum; CHRP Part I (level 1 and 2), CHRP Part II (level 3 and 4) and CHRP Part III (level 5 and 6). “I want to state that the HRMPEB examinations result being released today is in accordance with the Human Resources Management Professionals Act, 2012 number 52 which empowers HRMPEB to develop curriculum for human resources, conduct examinations and certify Human Resource professionals,” he said. Present at the launch of the results were Chairperson of the Board CS Sharon Kisire and CEO Douglas Ogolla. The examinations were held between June 8 and June 15, 2022, in different examination centres. In his briefing, Odero said HRMPEB has developed new curricula in certificate and diploma in Human Resource Management (Competency-based) which successfully went through the registration process with TVETA and were launched together with CHRP revised curriculum in April 2022. He said the new curriculum will significantly contribute to the enhancement of professionalism in Human Resource practice in Kenya and beyond. “In its quest to push the HR Profession to greater heights, HRMPEB revised the CHRP Program which incorporates competencies required by current HR practitioners,” he said. “Based on a survey of HR competencies conducted locally and intentionally as a result of benchmarking, the new curricula will equip the learners with more relevant HR skills and competencies than the old curriculum.” Some of the new subjects introduced in the revised CHRP Curriculum include organizational development and transformation, Human resource Audit, strategic human resource management, performance management and productivity, HR Consultancy and advisory, strategic leadership ethics and governance, Industry based management, HR accounting metrics and analytics, Research methods for HR Practitioners. HRMPEB is a statutory examinations body established under Sec. 16 of the Human Resource Management Professionals Act, No. 52 of 2012. The examinations Board is mandated to prepare syllabuses for Human Resource Management Professionals Examinations; make rules with respect to the examinations; issue certificates to candidates who have satisfied examinations requirements and promote recognition of its examinations locally and internationally.