Deputy President William Ruto has told his Azimio rival Raila Odinga to retire from active politics when President Uhuru Kenyatta leaves office. Exuding confidence that he will defeat Raila, Ruto said the Azimio presidential candidate should not imagine he could get into another handshake deal or coalition government. Speaking in Endarasha in Nyeri, Ruto said Uhuru should retire with his project. “If Raila has a problem getting home, we will arrange for transport to Bondo,” Ruto said. Uhuru is expected to leave office in August after serving the constitutional two five-year terms. He could however -in a worst-case scenario - remain in power for several more months after the end of his official term until a new president is sworn in on May 2, 2023, if the election is followed by Supreme Court petitions and likely presidential race run-offs. Ruto said Raila wrecked the late President Moi’s government, ruined Mwai Kibaki’s last term and derailed Uhuru’s development agenda. “This man has been a problem to three successive administrations. Please help me take him home,” he said. Speaking at another rally in Wamagana, Ruto accused Raila of being a coward by boycotting the presidential debate on Tuesday. “He failed to come because he did not have anything to tell Kenyans about his plans. He has no agenda,” he said. The DP said Raila has no development record in the Mt Kenya region during the period he served as Prime Minister. “Even if you are short of leaders, is this a man you would want to be your president? He is a man with no agenda,” he said. His running mate Rigathi Gachagua said Kenya Kwanza will end Raila’s political career. “He will never have another chance to cause problems to any government after we deal with him,” he said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro warned the government against sabotaging elections by turning off power on August 9. “We know power was switched off in parts of the country to prevent Kenyans from watching the presidential debate,” he said. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen appealed to Mt Kenya residents to vote for Ruto. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga thanked Ruto for picking Gachagua, who is from the area, as his running mate. “Gachagua will be our bridge to William Ruto. He will represent our interests in the government,” he said. He assured the DP of total support from the region. “We will wholeheartedly help you send your rival home. You can count on us,” he said. Ruto said Raila should not imagine that the “deep state or system” will propel him to power. “He should not imagine that he could ascend to power without the people. I do not know how he thinks he could do that. He should just prepare to go home,” he stated. Ruto addressed other roadside rallies in Kirinyaga and Murang’a counties.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris