Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga has urged voters to choose him in a letter addressed to Kenyans. In a letter appealing to Kenyans, he asked voters to cast their ballot for the Azimio La Kenya Coalition presidential ticket. "You and I have come a long way, a journey that has had  its ups and downs and most definitely twist and turns. I am eternally grateful that you have chosen to stand by me, with me and for the support you have given me all through the years. Asanteni sana," Raila said. He emphasised how this election stands to be one of the most significant moments in our history, a moment defined by ensuring every vote and voice counts. In his letter he was quick to note that as a country we are at a crossroads where we can either take the path to prosperity or the other that leads to definite fall into deep destitution and decline. "My running mate  Martha and I, have proven ourselves  over the years as steadfast reformist and patriots committed to the greatness of our   nation and prosperity of over 50 million Kenyans that call this place home. Our coming together at this time is neither by accident nor by chance. its the doing of our mighty God," he further added He assured Kenyans that his government will turn things around to create a nation that Kenyans deserve, one they can be proud of. He further emphasised that by voting for Azimio we will be  voting for integrity, good governance, measurable economic growth and equality for all people of our great Nation. He added that Kenyans of all tribes, religions, races, political affiliations and socio-economic backgrounds will not only be represented. "As we go out and vote my appeal is that you do it peacefully. No process is worth violence, hatred, or enmity. A neighbour spirit is more important than any democratic competition. Be your brothers keeper as we enter in this final  stretch, remember a people united can never be defeated,"he further noted. "On August 9,  I urge you once again to turn out, vote blue and together  we will change this our beloved nation," he concluded