UDA deputy presidential candidate Rigathi Gachagua has fired back at his Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance counterpart Martha Karua over an attack on his boss William Ruto. This is after Karua chided Ruto over a report that indicated he will investigate President Uhuru Kenyatta if he wins the presidency in the August 9 polls. The attack on the DP, seemingly, infuriated Gachagua who fired salvos at Karua telling her to keep off wars pitting President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy. Gachagua said Karua has never respected Uhuru or supported him and she should therefore not lecture them on anything regarding him. "My sister you have no capacity or moral authority to lecture William Ruto about respecting Uhuru Kenyatta. You wouldn't know how to respect Uhuru Kenyatta because you have never respected or supported him," Gachagua said. "You would need a seminar ukuje mimi nikukalishe chini nikufundishe njia ya  kuunga mkono na kupatia yeye heshima kwa sababu tunaelewa." He was addressing church service at St Thomas The Apostle in Meru on Sunday. While addressing a rally in Nyandarua county on Saturday, Karua labelled the DP as unfit for leadership. She cited the DP's plan to probe Uhuru if he wins the presidency as a tell-tale sign that he will not lead Kenyans well. "Any leader who threatens an individual be it the president or any other person is not worth being elected as a leader," Karua said. Gachagu also reminded Karua that the Mt Kenya region is solidly behind the DP. He took a swipe at her saying she has a penchant for taking the opposite direction politically when the region has a common stand on who they will vote for. "She has repeated what she has done every five years. She always walks in the opposite direction of where Mt Kenya people are walking," he said. The DP and his team will be pitching tents in Meru County this Sunday to drum up support for their presidential bid. Other leaders present were Speaker of National Assembly Justin Muturi, Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki among other leaders.