@robertomollo3 Homa Bay governor hopeful Evans Kidero on Saturday rallied the Abasuba community behind his candidature and pledged to establish a fish processing industry in the area. The community which consists of Suba South and Suba North constituencies has its residents' practice fishing in Lake Victoria as their economic activity. The majority of them live on Islands which makes them depend on fishing as a source of their livelihood in Homa Bay. Some of the islands include Mfangano, Kibuogi, Ringiti, Remba, Kiwa and Rusinga. For a long time, the fishing community has always expressed concerns over losses incurred due to the lack of fish processing industries in Homa Bay. They say fishermen do not get the value for their sweat due to middlemen who buy fish from them at low prices and sell it at exorbitant prices. Sindo Gate-Way Beach management secretary Lawrence Otieno said their economic status would be stable should they get any fish processing industries. “Many fishermen feel neglected because they don’t see any value in the fishing activity. We sell fish at unworthy prices to avoid incurring losses because fish is perishable,” Otieno said. Speaking after being endorsed by the Suba council of elders in Sindo town, Kidero pledged to woo investors to establish fish processing industries in the region. He said fishermen in Homa Bay do not get the value for their money despite producing significant quantities of fish annually. Homa Bay has more than 60 per cent of Lake Victoria's water cover. “Homa Bay is the greatest fish producer from Lake Victoria but our fishermen don’t get the value for their sweat,” Kidero said. He said fish processing industries will enable fishers to sell fish at better prices. The firms will enable value addition for fish from Lake Victoria. Homa Bay has not been having a fish processing industry after one which was foreign-owned collapsed in 2009. Many youths lost jobs after the collapse. “We must bring back job opportunities to the people through the establishment of industries. This will also boost the livelihood of the people,” he said. In the health sector, Kidero said he will increase the bed capacity of hospitals and equip them with drugs to enable residents to get better services. “We will boost agriculture by empowering farmers to afford the cost of production. Our county must be food secure,” Kidero said. The community council of elders led by vice chairman Peter Odede and the meeting convener Opiata Ogada supported Kidero. Odede said they agreed to support Kidero after reading and understanding the development projects he will implement in the region. They said Abasuba is one of the marginalised communities in Kenya. The elders called for peace during campaigns. “Our support to Kidero will be reciprocated by development . We’ve signed a memorandum of understanding with him to show its seriousness,” Odede said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris