Kenyan Premier League sensation, Felix Oluoch, is ready to brush aside the agony of the preceding season, where the cruel hand of fate denied him a rare moment of glory. The former Kariobangi Sharks enterprising marksman was all set for a dream maiden top-flight Golden Boot gong when a career-threatening injury jolted his lofty ambitions with only 10 games left to conclude the season. “The 10 games I missed compromised my chances a great deal. My target was 17 goals, and I was so sure I would attain that mark. Anyway, that's now water under the bridge. I'm grateful I managed to finish third,” Oluoch said. Oluoch had been wolfing down goals at whim before the far-reaching disaster struck. His most notable performance was on October 21 when he bagged a hat-trick in their 6-0 thumping of Mathare United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Then on April 17, he was in resplendent form again, finding the back of the net on either side of the interval as Sharks crashed KCB 2-0 in yet another scintillating top-flight thriller. The splendid run fired him to a third-place finish on the top scorers' chart with 13 goals, behind KCB's Derrick Otanga and Kenya Police's Clifton Miheso who struck the back of the net 16 and 15 times respectively. Things might have turned out better and chances were Oluoch was going to romp away with the award. However, his dreams were nipped in the bud when he suffered a major setback on May 5. On that fateful day, the vibrant forward was stretchered off after collecting a lateral ankle ligament sprain in their barren draw against record champions Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium. Oluoch is now crossing his fingers that the new season will not be beset by the same misfortunes as he seeks new adventures with a different club after severing ties with Sharks a week ago. “I've left Kariobangi Sharks and right now I'm a free agent. A good number of clubs have approached me and I'll be making my stand clear before long. “It was my desire to be with Sharks for a longer period but there are issues that arose at the end of the season made it difficult for me to remain at the club. So I opted out. “My last match was against Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium Kasarani. Both the head coach and the team doctor felt I was really struggling to keep up with the tempo of play owing to an injury I had sustained in an earlier match. And so I was substituted. Undoubtedly, Oluoch is already limbering up for the task ahead as he sets his sights on the coveted Golden Boot award that eluded him in the concluded season. “I find time to train at home once in a while just to keep fit for the new season. 