Kenya Simbas' quest to qualify for their maiden Rugby World Cup continues on Wednesday when they face Algeria at Stade Delort in Marseille in the semifinal. Paul Odera's charges made light work of neighbours Uganda in the quarterfinal, winning 42-7 last weekend while the North Africans brushed aside Senegal 35-12 to book their ticket to the last four. Odera wants the side to maintain the intensity and skill set displayed in the first half against Uganda. “We need to remain focused and concentrate for 80 minutes. We dropped intensity and skill-set towards the end of the match against Uganda and this shouldn't happen,,” said Odera. Former Kenya Under-20 coach said there are areas of improvement, especially on the organization of the defence and decision-making in contact. "Defensively, we did well but at times we had lapses in our shape which saw Ugandans capitalise on to create chances. We equally need to improve on our decision-making, especially in the attack,” noted Odera. The former international termed the Algerians who are ranked 82nd in the world as dangerous, warning that they can't afford to take them lightly. "They are a good team. They are big and strong in the forwards. They have a very organized and experienced backline and their ball distribution is well,” added Odera. The coach noted that Algeria will have a home crowd advantage due to the several Algerian fans who reside in the south of France. "It will be a big plus for them but our boys are relishing the task at hand,"  added Odera. The team held its captain run on Tuesday and Odera will start with Edward Mwaura, alongside Eugene Sifuna and Ephraim Oduor in the front row. The second-row partnership of the towering Malcolm Onsando and the skillful Thomas Okeyo who performed well against Uganda will be maintained. George Nyambua, skipper Dan Sikuta and Betwell Anami start in the back row KCB's Samuel Asati, who was named man of the match against Uganda, starts at scrum-half and will partner Fijian-born Jone Kubu at fly-half for the half-back combination. John Okoth and Vincent Onyala will continue their partnership in midfield with Derrick Ashiundu, Collins Injera and Darwin Mukidza in the back three. If Kenya win, they await the winner of the second semifinal between champions Namibia and Zimbabwe in the final. The final will be played on Sunday with the winner qualifying for the Rugby World Cup in France next year.