Kenyan Premier League club, Kenya Police, have raided rivals KCB for fresh recruits. Head coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo confirmed the arrival of Kenyan international right-fullback Baraka Badi and Emerging Stars winger Reagan Otieno from the bankers. Omollo said the move is aimed at strengthening their flanks as they train their guns on a maiden top-flight title next season. “It's true Baraka Badi and Reagan Otieno have joined us from KCB. Those are the only players we have acquired so far but we are still in the market for more,” Omollo said. The duo join the burgeoning list of local stars enlisted by the law enforcers following their promotion to the top tier last season. Former Simba SC midfielder Francis Kahata headlines the star-studded list of new acquisitions who also include Clifton Miheso, Musa Mohammed, Elvis Rupia, Harun Shakava and Eric Juma. Badi, who kicked off his career at the defunct former top-tier side, Thika United, comes to the side high on experience. He featured for the Kenya U20, and U23 teams before cementing his slot in the Harambee Stars starting lineup. Omollo also said they won't be offloading any players. “On the other hand we haven't lost any players,” he added. The development doesn't come as a surprise given it was only recently that Omollo hinted they would strengthen their squad ahead of the new season. “We already have a competitive squad given we did a lot of signing in the last two transfer windows but we are still open for new players,” Omollo said in a previous interview. While appraising the performance of the preceding season, Omollo reckoned the league was competitive and experience played a key role in handing Tusker their second consecutive title. The gaffer believes they wound up the season on a high after their torrid start to the season. “Generally, we performed well. We went unbeaten in our last eight matches, registering eight wins and eight draws. “We could have secured a better position in the standings if all our players attended practice consistently. But ten of our players had to attend police training, only showing up on the eve of our matches.” Omollo was appointed to his position in March following the departure of veteran tactician John Bobby Ogolla. The changes came in the wake of a miserable run that left the KPL debutants struggling to find a footing in the cutthroat top-flight competition, even after plunging vast resources into the transfer market in search of quality and experience.  