Residents of Moyale in Marsabit have commended Governor Mohamud Ali on his development projects and their socio-economic impact. Elder Hajj Boko said Ali is compassionate and committed to service delivery adding that most projects touch the lives of many in the county. He spoke during a political rally in Manyatta Burji on Saturday. Boko said the county scholarship programme and the National Hospital Insurance Fund cover benefitted the less fortunate in the county. He further lauded the governor for appointing their kinsmen in various positions. The elder said Ali's administration had put a smile on the faces of the people through massive infrastructural developments, human capacity building and empowerment. He said the governor uplifted the county's economy by building the medical training college and Hellu Manyatta road. Boko also said the dialysis machine resolved untold suffering of patients who had to travel to other counties for treatment. He termed the governor's development strides as unprecedented and revolutionary. Another elder Musa Lio said the governor has continued to deliver on his promises with unbridled commitment and fervour. He said Ali's government is committed towards equalising the ward development funds in line with his holistic plan and integrated development. Youth leader Nane Abdi in his support of the governor's re-election bid said his call is for Ali's administration to complete ongoing projects and initiate new ones. He said the governor has made giant strides and assured him of unflinching support and firm commitment to his re-election. Abdi said the newly constructed road, hospital and secondary school have impacted positively on the lives of the people. He said as a community they are grateful to the governor in what he terms as uncommon show of love to the people. The leader lauded Ali for focusing on fiscal responsibility, improving health, roads and education. He said the county needs to elect an accountable, responsible leader like him who cares for the less fortunate. The county boss defended his development record while seeking re-election for a second term. He said his administration implemented various development projects to transform the lives of residents. Ali said he has delivered on the promise he made to residents upon taking county leadership. He further urged political leaders and residents to embrace democracy and accept other people's opinions. The governor said political leaders have the responsibility to set a good example for citizens and should not hate others because of a difference in opinion but embrace and respect divergent opinions. "Let us respect other people's opinions. We should not divide people along tribal lines," he said. Ali urged residents to support and vote for Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga saying through him Kenya will be liberated. Marsabit deputy governor Solomon Gubo urged voters to turn up in large numbers and exercise their democratic right to cast their vote. He said there is need for formidable alliances as no community can win on their own. Gubo said they need to complete the job after laying down a good foundation. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)