Suna East MP Junet Mohamed on Sunday played an audio clip alleged to be of Deputy President William Ruto saying he almost slapped President Uhuru Kenyatta. While at a rally in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County during the Azimio campaigns, Junet appeared to confirm a media report that the DP indeed said he almost slapped  Uhuru. To support the media report, Junet played the alleged audio to Azimio supporters. In the clip, Ruto is talking about intrigues that surrounded the annulment of the 2017 presidential election. "Tulienda kufanya uchaguzi tukashinda. Huyu mtu akaenda pale akakoroga koroga hiyo uchaguzi. Watu wengi walikua wanadhani wakisema turudie uchanguzi tutawachana na Uhuru. Sijui kwanini walikua wanafikiria hivyo? Lakini mimi nilitoka hapa kwa ofisi. Nilikua nimeambia Uhuru chunga sana hapa kuna kingereza mingi akaniambia amechunga kabisaa. Loosely translates to: "We did an election and we won. There was an appeal filed at Supreme Court and it was ruled that we repeat polls. So many people thought that if repeat polls I will not support Uhuru. I don't know why? I left this office and I had told Uhuru to watch out on the Supreme court because I had sensed danger. He assured me all was well". The DP said after the 2017 polls were annulled, President Uhuru was almost quitting the fight for the presidency. He claimed, in the audio clip, that Uhuru had in fact told him to let go of their presidency bid. So tense was the moment that the DP said Uhuru even told him that he is retreating to his rural home in Ichaweri, Kiambu county. "Mimi nikatoka hapa kwa ofisi nikaenda Stata House. Sitaki kusema alikua anafanya nini kwa sababu sisi ni wazee. Ndo huyo ooh, hii maneno, sijui nini, mimi sitaki, mimi nataka kuenda Ichaweri. Wewe mimi sitaki wacha tuwachane na ii kitu. Mimi nikamwangalia, nikamwambia wewe, ni vile tu nilikuwa na heshima bure ingemchapa kofi," Ruto can be heard saying. "I left here and went to State House. I don't want to say what I found him doing because we are men. There he is, he started showing signs of giving up. He told me he wants to go to Ichaweri. He told me that we quit the fight for the presidency. I looked at him and told him, you, it is because of respect but I would have slapped him." Here is the Junet's  video courtesy of Charity Ngilu: