Azimio leaders have thrown their weight behind Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina's re-election bid. They were led by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, former nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony and Andrew Sunkuli. They said the senator deserves another term to complete what he had started in his first term. The politicians made the remarks after attending MAACOM-2022 Women Economic Forum at Enkanasa farm in Narok East subcounty on Friday. The event was held at Ledama’s home and where women were sensitised on health, education and empowerment. Ngilu appealed to Narok residents to give him a second term, saying he did exceptionally well by initiating life-changing projects in the county. “The testimony of his work is witnessed today during this forum which brings together women from across the Maa regions. He wants to ensure that these women are empowered and their lives improved and that is what is required in the leadership,” she said. Sunkuli said he dropped his interest to vie for Narok Senate seat after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka picked him as a running mate. Kalonzo later dropped his bid to back Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga. “After that, I started concentrating my focus on national campaigns for Azimio La Umoja and I decided to back Ledama for Senate. He should be given 10 years to complete the agenda he had for the people of Narok instead of bringing in a new person who will not be able to take Narok to the next level,” Sunkuli said. On women empowerment, Sunkuli said he will support the training of women on how to do business through his Mara Education Trust. “I want my organisation, which receives funds from friends and other people, to help you in the education and training of women enterprise among the pastoralists,” he added. Kittony said for Narok county to continue developing, residents should give Ledama another chance. “What Ledama has done here is clear that he is up to the task,” she said. The former Maendeleo ya Wanawake national chairperson urged voters to be wary of leaders whose agenda is to bring division among Kenyans. “Please I urge Kenyans not to fall into the traps of leaders whose only agenda is to pursue their own interests instead of addressing issues affecting Kenyans,” Kittony said. She also drummed up support for Raila and his running mate Martha Karua, saying the team is the only one that will take the country to the next level.