Fortune Sacco have gained promotion to the Kenyan Premier League following their walkover against Gusii FC at Kianyaga Stadium on Sunday. The Kirinyaga-based lads join APS Bomet, who also sealed an automatic slot to feature in the country's topflight league after topping the National Super League standings earlier in the month. Fortune's fans went into frenzied celebration as it became evident the side would grace the big stage next season. “Kenyan Premier League here we come! Pride of Kirinyaga, Mt Kenya and to many. Get used to our players' faces,” screamed a post on the club's social media page. Fortune have featured in the country's second tier for four seasons following their promotion in October 2018 after concluding the Division One competition with 57 points, 11 clear of second-placed Naivas FC. Central Kenya could make history by sending two teams to the KPL if Murang’a Seal, who emerged third with 61 points, manage to surmount Wazito in the promotion/relegation battle. Seal secured a lifeline after playing out to a one-all draw against AP on Sunday. Wazito wrapped up the season second from bottom in the top-tier competition last season, where Vihiga Bullets got demoted. Muhoroni Youth's dreams of making a grand return to the KPL were shattered after they finished fourth with 62 points. Muhoroni Youth wrapped up the season with a one-all draw against Shabana. In other matches, Mwatate United beat MCF 1-0. Migori Youth settled for a three-all draw against Kisumu Allstars while Silibwet and KBS shared spoils in a four-goal thriller. Vihiga United will have to wait patiently for another chance to battle for promotion after finishing 12th in the standings despite edging 1-0 SS Assad 1-0 on Sunday. Naivas beat Coastal Heroes 2-0. Meanwhile, the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee awarded APS Sh1m, a trophy and medals after their fixture against Murang’a Seal in Bomet on Sunday. “APS Bomet are the 2022 National Super League Champions. They walk home with Sh1m, a trophy and medals. Congratulations to AP's Bomet FC,” said the Committee.