The Kenya Health Professionals Oversight Authority has put quack medical practitioners on notice declaring that their days are numbered. The authorities' chief executive officer Dr Jackson Kioko said colour coding will be used in identifying private health facilities authorised to offer heathcare service from the unauthorised. “We will soon start colour coding so that if a facility is not colour coded it will thus not be authorised to provide medical services. So do not go there. That way we are going to fight the quacks,” he said. Kioko spoke to journalist in Kitui town after officiating the first graduation at the Jordan Medical College last Friday. Some 31 students graduated. Kioko condemned the attitude of many unqualified people who pose as professionals and offer quack services because they had either been exposed or worked in a health facility. “You see the problem is that everybody who holds a syringe, a pen, a BP machine or a stethoscope would be regarded as a doctor. "It is wrong. The public needs to be able to identify facilities that are appropriate to provide service,” he said. The CEO said the government will also introduce barcodes, which the medical service seekers would key into their smartphones, to establish whether a facility is authorised. He said the same had worked for pharmacies. “We are also saying that if one has been trained and authorised to provide treatment, they must display their certificates at the reception for all to see and not hide them in the wardrobe,” Kioko said. The KHPA boss said the public should keep off unregistered facilities. The director of the Jordan Medical College Dr Joshua Matu said medical training facilities across Kenya have endeavored to produce cutting edge professional and it is needless to outsource health professionals. “In this time and age, Kenya does not need to source experts externally. Experts trained in Kenyan institutions are qualified to treat any ailments without the country having to seek help from foreign practitioners,” he said. Matu said although the Kenyan medical human resource is top notch the only misgiving is that appropriate equipment and infrastructure are not availed to the experts. “In terms of human resource and expertise Kenyan doctors, nurses and health experts are competent enough to work anywhere in the world. It is the reason we have Kenyan nurses contracted to work in the United Kingdom,” he said. The director said the fact that Kenyan nurses could be recruited for the UK assignment is evidence enough that Kenyan training is excellent. He further said Africans, a good chunk being Kenyans, are among the best health and medical gurus in USA and Europe. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)