Former Nairobi county chief finance officer Jimmy Kiamba and three others will have to defend themselves on accusations of fraudulently acquiring Sh18 million from the county eight years ago. High Court Judge Esther Maina on June 30 overturned a decision that acquitted Kiamba, county secretary Lilian Ndegwa, former head of treasury Stephen Osiro and the former senior secretary at the department of finance Regina Rotich. She convicted them for their roles in signing cheques and approving payments for goods and services totaling Sh18 million without following procurement procedures. She sentenced Kiamba and Ndegwa to 10 years in prison or a fine of  Sh9.6 million. Osiro was handed a Sh1.2 million fine or three years in jail while Rotich was sentenced to 6 years in jail or a Sh1 million fine. The four accused persons faced ten counts of corruption-related offences. But charges on which they were convicted related to uttering false documents and fraudulently making payments from public revenue for services not rendered. The judge directed that the four be placed on their defence on three other corruption-related charges after reviewing the evidence and finding it merited. Magistrate Kennedy Bidali, who heard the case in the lower court, initially acquitted them on seven counts and placed them on their defense on three other counts. After hearing them, he subsequently cleared them of all charges but the Director of Public Prosecutions was aggrieved by the decision and appealed. Judge Maina in the appeal said she found the acquittal of the four on the counts of conspiracy to commit an economic crime, fraudulent acquisition of public property and abuse of office erroneous. She remitted the file back to the lower courts for it to place the four on their defence. The four will now be required to defend themselves on those charges. Chief magistrate Mugambi on Monday said each accused will defend themselves individually against the charges. The advocates representing the four urged the court for more time to enable them to prepare for the defence hearing.  Mugambi scheduled the matter for August 1. According to the High Court’s decision, Judge Maina said the prosecution adduced sufficient evidence to show that there was a probable conspiracy to commit an economic crime by the four. That is why she sent the file back to Mugambi for him to place them on their defence. She said the evidence before the trial court shows that Sh18 million of public funds were paid to Rotich, the secretary to Kiamba. The cheques to suppliers were written in the name of Rotich and money deposited into her bank account. After reviewing the evidence produced and witness testimonies, the Judge said it is obvious Kiamba, Osiro and Ndegwa signed cheques in the name of Rotich for ‘payment’ for goods and services without following laid down procurement procedures. She said procurement of the goods was irregular because it was done without the involvement of the procurement department and tender committee despite exceeding the Sh30,000 limits. Procurement laws require that all goods or services exceeding Sh30,000 must be subjected to the tendering process. Some of the irregular procurement processes included, procurement of services for the repair of computers and printers in the department of finance, purchase of toners for Sh750,000 and purchase of stationery for Sh700,000. “Exhibits including cheques, payment vouchers and bank statements of the county and that of Rotich show that the four worked together in a collective scheme to acquire Sh18 million," she said. "Which was credited to Rotich's account. Those payments were illegal and in breach of the procurement procedures and law." She also put Rotich in her defence to show how she acquired Sh18 million. The money paid to her bank account, the judge said has been linked to the same Sh18 million public funds that were irregularly paid out by Kiamba, Osiro and Lilian. “There is no explanation why the cheques of the county were paid to Rotich, a member of staff who could not by law do business with the county,” she said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)