The Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA-Kenya) has threatened to file a petition to relevant the institution if Education CS George Magoha refuses to resign over comments he made to a female Muslim journalist recently. Led by its chairperson Nancy Ikinu, FIDA states that the CS’s words were pure discrimination and a violation of human rights . “CS Magoha’s utterances resulted in pure discrimination and a violation of human rights contrary to, and prohibited by Article 27 (4) of the Constitution,” she said. On July 26, 2022 during a press conference, CS Magoha called out an NTV journalist who asked him a question and asked her who she was representing. "Where are you from, and who are you representing? If it's Al-Shabaab  will not answer you," he said. According to FIDA, the comment uttered by the CS was not only disrespectful, unacceptable and repulsive but also a clear case of profiling which is a violation of the constitution. An act that must be condemned in the strongest terms possible. “The comments were quite unfortunate coming from a high-ranking government official. This is simply hate speech and it is sad that a whole CS can target, profile and verbally attack a female journalist in the course of her duties based on her assumed religion while further associating her religion with terrorism,” FIDA stated. As a result, FIDA has demanded that CS Magha take personal responsibility for his utterances and  issues a public apology to the journalist. On top of that, they have also called for his resignation, if he fails to comply, FIDA will petition relevant institutions to institute disciplinary actions against the CS. Muslim leaders led by Supkem chairman Hassan Ole Naado also called for Magoha’s resignation, saying his comments were in bad taste and that they amounted to religious and ethnic profiling. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale also slammed  Magoha for what he also termed as religious profiling. Furthermore, Duale said Magoha was not respecting the leadership and Integrity Act. It spells out responsibilities and guiding principles of leadership which include respect for people and discipline. "To imagine our beloved children who you are responsible for hearing you say those words is Unacceptable! Shame on you! Again, "Duale said.