The Employment and Labour Court has nullified the sacking of former Kenyatta University Vice Chancellor Paul Wainaina. Wainaina had been sacked for failure to respond to a request by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. Kinyua had written a letter on July 4 instructing the council to hand over the institution title deeds, a request that was declined, leading to Wainaina's tribulations. But the court has now issued an order suspending his sacking pending the hearing of the case. "This Honourable Court be pleased to issue a temporary order suspending the implementation of the decision contained in the letter dated 12th July 2022 by Professor Crispus Kiamba in toto suspending, terminating and/or dismissing the Petitioner from the Office of the Vice-Chancellor, rendering his position vacant and/or revoking his salary," judge Jacob Gakeri. The court went ahead and stopped the institution from advertising the VC's position pending the determination of the case. "This Honourable Court be pleased to issue a temporary order barring the advertising and/or appointment of any persons as the Vice-Chancellor of Kenyatta University," the report reads. Wainaina was replaced with Waceke Wanjohi who even presided over the graduation on Friday. The university also has a new council, chaired by Crispus Kiamba, with Jane Wamoko, Carilus Odumbe, Maj. Gen (Rtd) Bashir Yussuf, Andrew Nyanchoga and Alice Muita as members. The changes were made to make it possible for the transfer of the land in question to be effected. A statement signed by former KU council chair Shem Migot Adhola clarified that it’s the council’s mandate to deal with university assets. This means that if the ownership of the land is to be transferred or approved for use by any investors, then only the council can approve. “According to Kenyatta University charter, the council is mandated to administer the property and the funds of the university in a manner and for the purposes which shall promote the interest of the university,” section 18(2) (a) reads. Adhola was responding to a letter from Kinyua on July 4 that compelled the Vice Chancellor to cede Kenyatta University title deeds. The council refused to submit the title deeds amidst the ongoing land tussle. “The council will be unable to accede to the request to surrender the title deed to the subject parcel as requested,” the statement reads. Adhola further added that the institution had already made initial plans on how to utilise the land in question.