Nominated senator Isaac Mwaura has reignited the debate that Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria submitted his name for nomination as a member of parliament should he lose in the polls. He said this just days after the MP dismissed the claims, arguing he would retire from politics if he loses in the August polls. In an interview on Monday, Mwaura said Kuria should not be nominated if he fails to clinch the Kiambu governor seat in the August polls. He also urged Kuria to step down in favor of Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi, who is vying for the seat on a UDA ticket, if he is not confident of emerging the winner. "I agree somebody like my good brother Moses Kuria should not be on the nominated MPs list at all, unless he thinks he is going to lose in Kiambu (governor race), and if so, he should then step down for Wamatangi who is also in Kenya Kwanza," he said. He added that Kuria should eye other positions in the government other than being in the National Assembly. Kuria had last week dismissed claims that his Chama Cha Kazi (CCK) party had forwarded his name to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for MP nomination after the August polls. Kuria pointed out that it was against the law for him to send his name for the nomination when he is vying for an elective seat. "It is simply not true that I have forwarded my name to be nominated as an MP. My single-minded focus is to be elected Governor of Kiambu County and to have William Ruto as President," he wrote. The outspoken MP, however, said he will take a break from politics if he is defeated in the Kiambu governor contest. "In the unlikely event I am not elected, you will not see me in politics again let alone seeking to be nominated. There is life beyond politics," he said. Mwaura, at the same time, noted that nominated persons should be vocal and true leaders for Kenyans to identify with them. "Kenyans want to see that these nomination positions have value, they are not just tokens or entry points to the mainstream but they should actually ensure Kenyans feel the value of them," he said.