Eldas MP Adan Keynan took a jibe at UDA's wheelbarrow politics saying their policies cannot sustain the country's economy. He said Kenyans are too smart to be hoodwinked into supporting Deputy President William Ruto and his unrealistic ideas. The legislator spoke on Wednesday during the launch of the Tula Tula water project in Eldas. He was accompanied by Water PS Joseph Njoroge. Ruto and his Kenya Kwanza allies have viciously defended the bottom-up economic model. They say the model will create jobs and benefits as opposed to the trickle-down economic model, which breeds cartels. Keynan who is the Jubilee coalition joint parliament group secretary however said the region is not ready to be in the opposition. He said he is optimistic that the Raila Odinga led Azimio- One Kenya alliance will form the next government. The legislator further called for six-piece voting in favour of Azimio candidates in Wajir county. He said residents will be ‘returning a hand’ to President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has launched numerous projects in the last nine years. “As a region we made up our minds a long time ago, on which direction we want to take politically. "We have unequivocally decided to walk the journey with Raila. A visionary leader who will bring the much desired change,” Keynan said. He urged residents from the ASAL communities to remain part of the handshake and Azimio coalition, for them to be in the next government. “We cannot continue with the visionless politics of propaganda that takes us backwards. Let me ask you, can our camels fit in a wheelbarrow?” the MP posed. Keynan said the Jubilee administration has done a lot in the county to uplift the lives of residents. He said the only way to show appreciation is by voting for Azimio candidates in the August 9 General Election. “Launching a project in an interior place like this shows the government knows about our issues and cares. "The Jubilee government has been good and God willing, we shall be in the next government, which will be formed by Azimio coalition,” Keynan said. The legislator said the government has initiated several water projects in the county and they will soon have a major road from Isiolo to Mandera. “We have also received new administrative units. We want to continue with these projects in the next government,” he said. Njoroge also rallied Wajir residents to support Azimio's presidential candidate. The PS defended his move to take political sides saying he has a responsibility to advise the citizens on the best candidates to lead the country. “I have a duty to advise you. We have to look at the sustainability of our economy and make sure all projects continue in the next government. “As leaders, we urge you to continue with the government that will build this nation because you are the ones who will decide on the ballot. We have looked at the two contestants and settled on Raila,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)