As the elections draw near (25 days), candidates from Nyamira who are affiliated with Azimio la Umoja, are determined to take over the county politics to the national level. Candidates for the position of governor, MCAs, Woman Rep, MPs and those allied to Raila Odinga have promised to deliver a big win in the August polls. Besides selling their manifestos, they are drumming up support for Raila. In the governor race, ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire has said he will win the seat currently being held by Governor Amos Nyaribo. Bosire has said he will deliver the county from corruption. He has joined former KeNIA boss Reuben Marwanga (Jubilee) who has said he is best suited to take over. The candidates have said they will prioritise health, education, youth, women and people with disabilities, agriculture and industrialisation if elected. “Our county has not made any step in the industrialisation sector. That is why we depend on other counties for basic utilities such as shoes, clothes and agro products,” Marwanga said in an interview on Wednesday. “I want to be the governor to achieve some of these development projects.” In the MP contest, ODM candidate for Kitutu Masaba Clive Gisairo has vowed to win and change the face of the constituency which he says has not been well represented in the national assembly in the last four years. “I will deliver Kitutu Masaba from underdevelopment. There is a lot that needs to be done and hence it takes a vocal leader to take the constituency to the next level,” Gisairo said. In West Mugirango, Jubilee MP hopeful Stephen Mogaka has said he will ensure equitable distribution of resources across the constituency which he says has not been done. He said the issue of bursaries, infrastructure and general representation has not been addressed properly. Mogaka promised to tackle issues affecting the constituency if elected. “We are concerned that the leaders we elected have abandoned duty and we no longer feel their impact. That is why we need to have leaders who can transform our constituency and the country at large,” he said in a statement. Mogaka and businessman Rodgers Moturi will be in the race to unseat the incumbent MP Vincent Kemosi (Ford Kenya) In North Mugirango former Bungoma county assembly clerk Kennedy Mosongo (ODM) and former Kisumu county director of Education Issac Atebe (UPA) will be battling out for the position to unseat the incumbent MP Joash Nyamoko. Atebe and Mosongo feel the constituency has not been fully represented. Borabu MP seat will be left out after the incumbent MP Ben Momanyi (Wiper) opted to vie for the county’s top seat. However, businessman Aben Rogena feels he is the ideal candidate to fill the gap which has been left by the Parliamentary Service Commissioner who wants to unseat Nyaribo. Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi (Jubilee) has said she can be reelected for another term. However, Emily Nyagarama (ODM) wants to make her way through to clinch the position.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris