When the Covid-19 pandemic struck the world in early 2020, Elias Ngeny was in the final stages of realising his childhood dream, securing athletics scholarships in the United States of America. Following the pandemic, whose first case in Kenya was announced in March 2020, travel restrictions were put in place and lockdowns instituted. Ng'eny had to find a Plan 'B'. “I started running while in high school and that's how my passion in the sport started. I wanted to get a scholarship in America through my talent. I had gone through the whole process and filled all the necessary documents. I was very optimistic that things would fall into place,” Ngeny said. "However, the pandemic occurred and that’s how tables turned on me. I had to come up with another plan and that’s how I started running professionally." "My parents are very proud of what I do. I am also glad since I can now support my parents and my siblings. I can boldly attest that running has changed my life and that of my family.” Ng'eny said his parents embraced that turn of events gladly because, through him, there is now a gleam of hope. He competed in the 800m and 1500m races at the African Athletics Championships in Mauritius in June, finishing fifth in the 800m final. And as he prepares for his next assignment at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham between July 28 and August 8, Ngeny revealed how he is drawing inspiration from Olympic and world 800m champion Emmanuel Korir. “My goal is to come back with a medal, God-willing. Right now, my main focus is on athletics, though I might go back to school later,” he said. Ngeny, who trains in Kaptagat, said his most memorable moment in athletics was when he ran a world lead time during the pre-trials for the Tokyo Olympic Games at Nyayo Stadium in May last year. “The highlight of my career is when I run a world lead on Kenyan soil last year. I look up to Emmanuel Korir who is also my good friend. He pushes me to do better every time and urges me not to give up. His advice gives me the morale to keep moving,” Ngeny said.