Azimio presidential running mate Martha Karua has said she was not cowed by a teargas explosion that disrupted her rally on Thursday in Kisii. "I am not a person to be intimidated by a little smoke. That is why I am back in Gusii land to show them that I will not be swayed by hate," she added. She spoke during a campaign rally in Nyamira County, where she was accompanied by  ODM leader Raila Odinga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka among other leaders. "I am at home and I cannot be chased away from my home. I am back to say what I had planned to say," she added. On Thursday, Karua was forced to end her Kisii Stadium rally prematurely after a tear gas explosion. The Azimio presidential running mate had just taken the podium to address her supporters when a tear gas exploded. The crowd scampered away for safety as Karua walked back to her car leaving the rally without making an address. Karua had visited the County with Mama Ida Odinga. "My message to Omong'ina (women) not just in Kisii but entire Kenya; This is our time. Baba Raila has remembered us," she said, adding that is what she had prepared to tell her electorates before the rally ended abruptly. Karua said Raila choosing her as his running mate was a manifestation that he values Kenyan women and is urging them to stand up and represent themselves. She further urged all Kenyan women to vote for her boss. "The Azimio administration will bring about total equality," Karua said. "Everyone in the household will be included. This will be a government of inclusivity and unity." She reiterated that on August 9, electorates should vote for a leader who has a development reputation. Earlier, the National Police Service said they had arrested the police officer suspected of throwing the canister to the podium. "NPS wishes to inform the public that preliminary investigation into the discharge of the teargas at the public meeting presided over by Martha Karua has established that the person responsible for the incident is a police officer."