A move by Deputy President William Ruto’s handlers to move out his belongings from a private office in Nairobi attracted the attention of police who stormed there and seized two servers. Officials at the ninth floor of Transnational Plaza said the office used to belong to the DP. “The office was his private office though a financial institution had an office there too,” an insider said. The managers of Lamstar Technologies who have been running the office started to move out of the office on Saturday evening and continued overnight. Police said they were informed of the movements and that there were servers there that were sensitive with crucial information. Nairobi Police boss James Mugera who visited the site said they had been informed of the movements and that there could be crucial information that was suspicious in some servers there. “We were acting on reports to come here. We have taken two servers which will be analyzed by experts to tell us more on claims of the contents,” Mugera said. He said he did not know the real tenant and occupants of the office but he had talked to a manager there who told him the property in the office were being moved to another premise in Westlands area. “The firm ran a mobile money services and the servers were hosting details of the same.” Dozens of police officers and those from other agencies flocked to the floor on receiving the information of the movements and found hired workers still busy demolishing the office. They were armed with hammers and mallets as others carted out the dismantled valuables including doors, tables and cables. Guards at the building said the demolition of the office and movements of the property started on Saturday. “Most computers and servers were taken away before police could arrive,” one of the guards said. Mugera said they had traced the places where the computers and servers had been taken to and would seek to access them. The Star could not get an immediate response from the DP’s side on the developments. Guards there claimed he used to visit late in the night. Teams from various institutions joined those at the office as the move sparked speculations from various quarters. The DP moved to the office when he was the higher education minister under the grand coalition government. At one point, it was used as the offices of URP, which was the DP’s party in 2013. One of the DP’s handlers who asked not to be named said he no longer uses the office. “You can say he has not been there for long. Some of his people could be visiting there but not him,” said the handler.