The dusk to dawn Marsabit curfew has been extended for another 45 days starting July 1. The curfew that started on May 2 has been extended twice to enable multi-agency teams to conduct an operation on illegal guns fanning violence. In a gazette notice dated June 30, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said given the threats posed to security and public order by disturbances in the area it was prudent to extend the curfew. “The order shall apply during the hours of darkness between 6 pm and 6 am with effect from July 1, and shall remain in effect for 45 days except August 8, 9 and 10,” the gazette notice reads. During the period, there will be no public gatherings, processions, or movements, either by individuals or groups during the curfew except as permitted in writing by the Inspector of General. The teams have been conducting operations in the area targeting guns. On Friday, two elders accompanied by Hafare assistant chief surrendered an unmarked Mark Four rifle with an empty magazine in the wake of the ongoing disarmament and peace efforts in the area. Officials said the operation will continue until at least 5,000 of the estimated guns in illegal hands are retrieved. Last month, Matiang’i said although the multi-agency team deployed in May had restored peace, the mopping of illegal weapons must be concluded as a long-term security strategy. He said just over 200 guns, around 3,000 ammunitions, a grenade and assorted bayonets have been surrendered or recovered under Operation Rejesha Amani. “We need to recover more guns, we believe there are still many more guns in the wrong hands,” he said. The extension of the curfew is intended to facilitate the operation to stabilise the county. “We will stay on this assignment until this place remains peaceful. We have made assurances that we will not end the operation until after the general elections because we want this place to be peaceful,” he said. The officers are drawn from specialised units including the General Service Unit, Anti Stock Theft Unit, Rapid Deployment Unit and others. He hailed the deployment of the security team saying it had succeeded in stopping ethnic conflicts in the county. “Since the deployment of this team, we’ve not had a single security incident in Marsabit. Life has gone back to normal and residents are now able to go on with their businesses,” the CS said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris