The Laikipia government has promised to establish a company to coordinate the production, processing, marketing and distribution of county meat brands. This means Laikipia herders could in future earn more from their animals. Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said livestock producers will get supply quotas to Laikipia Meat Private Limited Company, with which they will have an off-take arrangement. The World Bank is in the process of establishing a credit line through Kenya Development Corporation to support the project. The World Bank's support will focus on making the firm operational, livestock genetics and feeding, the governor announced Saturday. “The firm is modelled along the lines of Githunguri Dairies, but this one focuses on meat, whereby our livestock keepers will have supply quota,” Muriithi spoke in Umande ward, Laikipia East constituency. Under the arrangement, large-scale ranches are expected to become finishing centres for livestock. In 2020, cattle worth Sh746.8 million were slaughtered in the county, while 21,000 others worth Sh842 million were moved out of the county. Governor Muriithi said proper feeding and adequate water are critical for optimal livestock production across the county and that was the reason his administration was targeting to co-invest with the private sector to establish between 40,000 and 60,000 acres of feed crops annually. He said his administration will support the establishment of medium- and large-scale feedlots, unlock the true value of the county's livestock industry and invest in livestock breed improvements to raise meat and dairy yields. The county has employed more than 100 extension officers to advise farmers on the selection and production of high-value crops and livestock. The county will support financing for farm mechanisation, drying, refrigeration and value addition. Muriithi said he will implement warehouse receipt financing and contracts for high-value crops as well as seasonal finance schemes to support farmers’ organisations to source certified seeds and inputs.