Murang’a residents have accused the government of playing politics with the soaring cost of living to sway voters. The residents said the government’s decision to provide low-cost maize flour just two weeks before the general election is hypocritical. James Wachira, a resident of Gaturi village in Kiharu constituency said the cost of maize flour started rising late last year and has been on an upward trajectory. Wachira who operates a small shop in his village said back then, a bundle of 12 packets of maize flour was sold at Sh960 but currently its at Sh2,250. This forces him to sell a 2kg packet at Sh230 up from Sh100. Wachira said the high cost of living has pushed many of his customers to the edge of poverty and that many are buying on credit. “This has affected my business because it has made restocking difficult but I know it is because they do not have the money to buy,” he said. According to him, the decision by the government to provide low cost flour now is not in the interest of Kenyans but the election. “What will happen to Wanjiku when the election is over? Will she be condemned to scrambling for food as she has been for several months? What then is the purpose of lowering the costs now,” he asked. Wachira, a father of two said the current cost of living is not sustainable considering the high rate of unemployment. He noted that should sustainable measures not be put in place, the crime rate will soar as Kenyans seek to sustain their families. In Murang’a town, Murathi Magochi, another shopkeeper, said it is unfortunate that the government is importing tax free maize yet most farmers are about to harvest. “The maize we planted in April has matured and is being harvested now. Why did the government not wait for it to dry to buy from local farmers?” Murathi asked. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said the abolishment of taxes levied on maize imports will ensure there is enough supply in the country thus lowering the cost of production. Late last month, Munya announced that the government had suspended all taxes on maize imported into the country in a bid to lower the cost. On Monday, the government released a statement indicating that it had subsidised the price of maize flour to Sh100 for a two-kilogramme packet for the next four weeks. Murathi says the importation of tax-free maize will flood the market and disadvantage local farmers. “The government has created room for cartels to benefit more as our  farmers languish. Farmers bought fertiliser at Sh6,000 per sack and may end up getting stuck with their produce,” he said. He said if the government’s interests were to cushion Kenyans, it should have liaised directly with the Ugandan government to acquire the maize and then sold it local millers at a low cost. He also said the government should put more focus on lowering the cost of fuel which affects all other sectors directly. Murang’a Senate aspirant Pius Kinuthia praised the government for the efforts but noted that long-term measures are needed to permanently cushion Kenyans from food insecurity. Kinuthia, who is vying for the seat through ODM said should the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition win, it should prioritise subsidisation of farm inputs to ensure Kenyans are food secure. “I am happy that this is part of Raila Odinga’s manifesto and I hope it will be among the first things he works on after his election,” he said. Kinuthia said many Kenyans are sleeping hungry and struggling to get by with the shrinking sources of income and high cost of commodities. “We need policies that favour both traders and Kenyans to provide a thriving environment for both,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)