The doctors' union has sharply disagreed with independent candidate for Uasin Gishu governor, Bundotich Buzeki, who proposed to employ some health workers on contract, if elected. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists Dentists Union officials in the North Rift led by branch secretary Kamunzi Mule said Buzeki's proposal would  undermine gains made in improving the welfare of health workers. Mule and other officials have asked residents and other Kenyans to carefully understand manifestos by candidates before deciding on who to vote for on August 9. Buzeki said, however, his stand was misunderstood because he only indicated plans to hire extra health workers if elected. Buzeki commented during the governor's debate for Uasin Gishu held last Sunday. “I never said I would put all health workers on contract because it’s not even possible to change those who are on permanent terms to contract,”Buzeki said. He said rivals should not twist his position to confuse the electorate. However, the KMPDU officials have insisted Buzeki’s plan for the health sector had caused concern among medics. “We are very concerned over the candidate's sentiments  made in the governor's debate. They do not show his clear  intentions  to work with the health  workers. Such a person is not the right person to work with, Mule said. Dr Dawin Ambuka,  who is KMPDU chairman in the region,  asked the candidates to be very specific about their agendas for the health sector. He said the candidates need to consult extensively before talking about matters of health during the campaigns Mulei said they  would support the candidates who have shown a clear indication to work with professionals such as doctors, nurses and teachers, among others. “We are urging the citizens to be very careful when electing their governors and vote for whoever has their interests at heart, "Otherwise, tomorrow we will be on the streets striking instead of taking care of the patients,” Dr Mulei said. He said they would still push for creation of a Health Service Commission to take charge of human resource matters for all medics. “Most of the counties are struggling with infrastructure and systems due to lack of human resource guidelines,  medics are punished without following any proper procedure being followed. In many cases, strangers are appointed to handle dockets that require professionals,” Mule said. The medics said they had worked with many challenges including lack of promotions under Governor Jackson Mandago and they don't want another  leader who would frustrate them. (Edited by V. Graham)