Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga on Thursday rallied Mombasa residents to consider his bid as he promised to review the controversial Standard Gauge Railway cargo directive if elected. Raila said his government will revive the economy of the coastal town and ensure nobody is forced to use SGR as is the case currently. He said importers will have a free hand to choose their preferred mode of transport for their cargo. Government directives currently compel all cargo imported through the port of Mombasa to be hauled to Nairobi and the hinterland exclusively by SGR. The former Prime Minister said the directive, which was opposed by his Azimio MPs, rendered thousands of locals jobless weakening the Mombasa economy. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed had called on Raila to consider reviewing the regulations. Raila accused Deputy President William Ruto of engineering the ‘retrogressive’ SGR directive in the National Assembly. “They brought a motion that made it mandatory for all cargo to be hauled through SGR, they are now shedding crocodile tears,” Raila said. “We have a plan to bring back the Mombasa economy. We will implement an open sky policy where tourists will fly directly to Mombasa without going through Nairobi.” The Azimio candidate said SGR and expanded port services were the brainchild of the grand-coalition government promising to make it work as they envisioned with late President Mwai Kibaki. Raila accused Ruto of double-speak over the relocation of port services to Naivasha. He said his administration will restore the region’s economy and turn Mombasa into the next Dubai, attracting direct international investments. The ODM leader spoke when he toured the Coastal city to drum up support for his bid. He was accompanied by his running mate Martha Karua. The Narc Kenya boss said the Azimio government will have no sacred cows when it comes to fighting against corruption. “Under Azimio, there will be no special treatment even if you are my brother or sister. The law will apply to all,” she said. Leaders in Raila’s entourage included Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Governor Hassan Joho, Senator Mohamed Faki, and former Gatanga Peter Kenneth. Others were MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe, Junet Mohamed (Suna East, Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Naomi Shaban (Taveta MP). Raila called on Coastal voters to adopt a six-piece voting pattern to ensure the coalition has controlling numbers in the bicameral Parliament and the local assemblies. “We have 24 days to the ballot, I don’t want you to vote for me as President without foot soldiers. I want my team,” he said. Karua said the Azimio government will only push through his manifesto if it has a majority of MPs in Parliament to push the government's legislative agenda. The leaders campaigned in Kengeleni, Sabasaba, Changamwe, and Jomvu where they urged electorates to reject Ruto saying he is unfit to lead. Raila promised to embark on the delivery of his manifesto promises insisting they are achievable and will not get distracted by critics. “We are on the final stretch, we are marching to the ballot. It is upon you to herald change or fuel continuation of status quo,” he said. Raila reiterated his commitment to rollout the Babacare health insurance scheme that will ensure millions of vulnerable Kenyans have access to health services and implement the Sh6000 monthly social protection stipend in his first 100 days in office.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris