Taita Taveta gubernatorial hopeful Stephen Mwakesi has promised to initiate development projects in rural areas to make government services accessible at the village level. The People's Empowerment Party leader said the region has not yet benefited from devolution because of bad governance. Speaking during his campaign in Wundanyi on Monday, he said he will use his governance prowess to transform the region’s economy by initiating income-generating projects. “We need change and we have the solution. In every village, the reality of development needs to be evident and visible. This is the purpose of devolution,” he said. He said the community is languishing in poverty for lack of elaborate actions to create jobs and initiate projects that would improve the economy. “If we can ensure improved service delivery for our people then we can have better-developed societies and communities,” Mwakesi said. The public policy expert wooed residents to make deliberate decisions on election day to change from a non-performing government to a responsive working administration. He further said he is the best-suited candidate to rectify mistakes that have been committed by John Mruttu and Granton Samboja’s administration in the last 10 years. “Make a wise decision and elect an effective administration that is able to provide for the developmental needs of its people. This is what we offer,” Mwakesi said. The former Deputy President William Ruto’s ally is one of the youngest candidates in the crowded gubernatorial race. Some 13 candidates are lined up to fight for the coveted county’s top seat. They are the incumbent Samboja (Jubilee), Mruttu (UDA), Mwatate legislator Andrew Mwadime (Independent), Mwakesi (PEP), Patience Nyange (Narc) and former senator Dan Mwazo (Wiper). Others are George Mwandembo (DAP-K), Agnes Mwang'ombe(ANC), Godino Mwasaru (Independent), Onsemus Mwinzi (Independent),Tom Mwakwida, (ODM) and Safina’s Francis Mwaita. Mwakesi, however, expressed confidence in winning noting the upcoming polls will bring development to the county. “The county is ready for change and an opportunity to bring desired development to every village, we shall defeat them,” he said. The youthful politician is banking on the youth and women who form the biggest percentage of the 181,827 registered voters in the county. The party has also fielded vibrant young people to fight for ward rep seats in all the 20 wards. Ben Mghana and Anna Kina are also fighting for the Mwatate parliamentary seat and woman rep seat respectively under PEP. (Edited by Tabnacha O)