Revival of Kimwarer and Arror dams along with the collapsed flourspar company has dominated election campaigns in Elgeyo Marakwet, with candidates pledging to restart the mega projects. The Kimwarer and Arror projects that were to cost more than Sh63 billion stalled three years ago due to claims of corruption, leading to prosecution of several top government officials. The two dam projects were to be implemented by Kerio Valley Development Authority. On the other hand the Flourspar company collapsed due to financial problems caused by lack of markets for its products. The company employed more than 3,000 residents. Kanu candidate for Keiyo South MP Dr Micah Kigen leads candidates who have been talking about revival of the projects to help create jobs for locals. Kigen has particularly been citing the Kimwarer dam project and Flourspar, which are located in Keiyo south. He says the two projects if revived can create more than 10,000 direct and indirect jobs, thus completely transforming lives of residents in the constituency. “If elected I will lead dialogue with the government so that we restructure the Kimwarer dam project and give the work to a new contractor so that construction of the dam can resume,” Kigen said. He said the location of the dam was the only problem identified by the group of technical experts appointed by President Kenyatta to review viability of the projects. The Kanu candidate said that already there were plans to revive the Fluorspar company and tenders had been floated for bidders wishing to take over and revive the firm. “If elected I will give the revival of the two projects priority because I know they will be a major source of jobs for our people,” Kigen said. Kigen is vying for the seat a third time and wants residents not be misled to vote for the so-called six piece suit pattern for UDA candidates in the region that is a stronghold of DP William Ruto. “I am happy that our people have seen the light and no longer base their voting decisions on political parties.  People now want good leadership and will not be confused to blindly support any formation,” Kigen said. Outgoing Governor Alex Tolgos, who is vying for the Senate seat, said he would still push for the same projects to be revived. “Our county is quite poor in terms of the economy of our people and if we can revive the projects then we will help to deal with poverty issues along with other challenges,” Tolgos said. Senator Kipchumba  Murkomen who is defending his seat has also pledged that the Kenya Kwanza government, if elected, will revive the projects. Edited by Henry Makori