The first ever rescue shelter for survivors of gender-based violence has been launched in Lamu. The Sh6 million facility is located in Mokowe on the Lamu mainland and is meant to provide a safe haven for men, women and children fleeing GBV. The 10-bed capacity, fully furnished shelter funded by the Kenya Ports Authority boasts two sleeping areas, a modern kitchen, bathroom and expansive compound. The shelter will be now open to men, women and children fleeing various forms of GBV across Lamu county. Apart from shelter, once at the safe house, the survivors will receive medical and psychological help to help them overcome the effects of violence they have encountered in their lives. While making his remarks on behalf of KPA acting managing director John Mwangemi,the authority's head of corporate affairs Bernad Osoro said the safe house will give hope, as well as a second chance to many young girls and its environs. He said violence against women and girls is a global human rights challenge with the records at the World Health Organization estimating that 37 per cent of women worldwide have experienced physical and sexual violence in their lifetime. “Its our hope that through this spotlight initiative, communities will now report GBV cases and those affected will receive much needed help,” Osoro said. KPA is partnering with the Kenya Red Cross and the World Vision in ensuring the centre takes off effectively and remains relevant. “As an authority, we are keen on partnering with different organisations in our CSR [corporate social responsibility] programmes. We will be working with the two bodies,the Ministry of health and the Mokowe health centre," Osoro said. "It is this kind of partnerships that will see us achieve the goal of having a GBV free society.” According to the most recent national data published in 2014, 41 per cent of women reported having experienced physical or sexual violence from their husbands or partners in their lifetime. About two-fifths of these women reported physical injuries from the violence. In Lamu county, statistics of the the Lamu County Gender-Based Report as registered by the public health facilities indicates that 327 sexual violence cases were handled between 2015 and 2019. “With these kind of statistics and GBV rising daily, we cannot deny the fact that it is an issue that needs to be addressed. That is why we were eager to assist in this initiative knowing that it’s a course worth fighting for,” he said. Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo said that in as much as the government has in its constitution embedded the sexual offence act, victims of GBV continue to suffer in the hands of their tormentors as safe spaces for those affected remain a mirage. “Ideally a safe house in the context of GBV,is a home that provides an alternative shelter for survivors of violence," Obbo said. "The intended purpose is to keep the survivor away from the perpetrator with the aim of supporting them in dealing with the traumatic experience as justice takes its course.” The woman representative said for the situation to be achievable, there is need for partnerships between private and public sectors. She said many GBV cases in the region end up being thrown out for lack of evidence and that the safe shelter will enable victims to preserve any necessary evidence to help them get justice in court. “There are so many such cases here but because victims do not know how to handle the evidence, they never get justice. We have had suspects get out and come back to attack the victims again,” she said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)