Team Uganda are spoiling for revenge against Kenya ahead of the Victoria Cup, which starts on Thursday at the Par 72 Limuru Country Club course in Kiambu county. Kenya beat six countries including hosts Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and Ethiopia to the Region IV Championship at Kampala's Lake Victoria Golf Resort on July 14-16 in Kampala. Uganda captain Joseph Cwinyaai will lead a team of 10 players in the event which ends on Sunday.  They include— Godfrey Nsubuga, Andrew Ssekibejja, Ibrahim Bagalana, Dennis Asaba, Tom Jingo, Joseph Kasozi, Ronald Mugisha, Michael Alunga and Joseph Reagan Akena. The team, under the tutelage of lady pro-Flavia Namakula, arrived in the country on Sunday well in time for their pre-event training at the competition venue in Limuru “We are focused on performing well at the Victoria Cup in Limuru. We have to avenge the Zone IV loss at home” Cwinyaai noted. Under head coach John Van Liefland, Kenya will field familiar faces, four of whom traveled to Uganda for the Region IV tournament. They are Dennis Maara (Limuru), Adel Balala, Michael Karanga and John Lejirma. Other making the Team Kenya list include Andrew Wahome (Nyali Golf & Country Club,) Christopher Andrea (Ruiru Sports Club), Daniel Kiragu, Ebill Omollo Omollo (Vet Lab), John Lejirma (Railway), Njoroge Kibugu (Muthaiga) and Sammy Mulama (Golf Park). Kenya Golf Union (KGU) had earlier named 17 players who have been undergoing training under coach John van Liefland but the list has been whittled down to 10 ahead of the event. Those dropped from the team were Jay Sandhu (Muthaiga), John Kamais (Nakuru) alongside Junior golfers Mikael Kihara (Vet Lab), Steve Orinda (Vet Lab), Chrisphine Owuor (Vet Lab), Lee Kimathi (Windsor) and Ngondo Kimemia of Sigona. Since the event's inauguration in 2016, Kenya has won the event three times. In 2019, Uganda won the event at Entebbe Golf Club. “We are happy to stage the event once again this year, something we were not able to do in 2020 and 2021 due to the challenges brought about by the Covid 19 Pandemic,” said Njani Ndiritu, the chairman of Kenya Golf Union. A confident Team Kenya captain Dennis Maara reassured the country that the team is fully prepared and that they intend to get the trophy back.  Victoria Cup schedule ●   Thursday: Practice Round & Flag Raising Ceremony ●  Friday: Main Event Round 1 - Four Ball Better Ball,  Main Event  Round 2 - Foursomes ●  Saturday: Main Event Round 3 - Four Ball Better Ball, Main Event Round 4 - Foursomes ●   Sunday:  Main Event Round 5 - Singles Subsidiary Event – Texas Scramble Closing Ceremony 