The Nairobi Metropolitan Services plans to release all boda boda motorcycles impounded within Nairobi before the upcoming elections. NMS Director General Mohammed Badi said he will  consult Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai over the matter. “Some  boda boda had been impounded, I shall consult with  with IG and ensure they get released before elections,” he said. Badi admitted  that boda boda operators have been victims of rogue enforcement officers. “Since I took over Nairobi  I have worked closely  with the boda boda associations. It is true that boda boda operators have been harassed by rogue enforcement officers." Badi said he has initiated disciplinary action against the rogue officers and will dismiss them. “Nimeanza kunyorosha the rogue department and they will go home,” he stated. Boda boda riders in Nairobi have been protesting against extortion by inspectorate officers. Despite parting with Sh3,000 monthly license fee, rogue city Askaris still demand for bribes whenever they encounter the operators. In August 2021, the Inspectorate department led by Mark Leleruk launched a crackdown on matatus, boda bodas, hawkers and parking boys to restore order in the Central Business District. More than 200 motorbikes were impounded and taken to the Central police station but later released. The boda boda industry has been on the spotlight for involvement in crime and other anti-social activities. Some have on numerous occasions been blamed for ferrying criminals from scenes of crime. In a bid to restore order and sanity in the industry and ease regulation of boda boda activities, the Nairobi City County in March 2021 said it would register all boda boda operators at the subcounty level. This would see each operator issued with unique identification numbers for ease of identification of the operators in case of an accident or criminal activity. The registration would also enable City Hall to issue the riders with stickers to identify them from riders from other counties.