With less than two weeks to the end of his tenure in office, Trans Nzoia county governor Patrick Khaemba has highlighted his achievements. While defending his track record and major infrastructural projects, Khaemba told off critics. He said his administration made great strides in development. "My administration has indeed achieved a lot on gender, education, health and infrastructure," he said. He was addressing departmental heads, workers, professionals and all invited guests at the Kitale National Museums of Kenya in a farewell function of a sort. He said the funds, though minimal, had made it possible to improve infrastructure in the County. “Previously, Kitale bus park was poorly constructed. When I came in, I decided to do something different that resulted in the modern Bus Park not found in any of the counties in this country," he said. He said the Bus Park has eased transportation of people to various destinations. "Traders used to have a rough time before this bus park was constructed but today things have changed. The trading environment has changed for the better,"  he added. Khaemba said his administration has built 4000-kilometre roads and maintained 3000 kilometres. "My administration also helped to tarmac 17 kilometres backstreets of Kitale Town," he said. “We have built more roads in nine years than what the defunct Kitale municipal and county council of Nzoia combined built since independence." He said infrastructure projects have put Trans Nzoia County on the Kenyan map despite little funding. His administration, he said, installed 338 high mast lights in every urban area in the County, something he says has helped improve security. Khaemba took pride in the strides achieved in healthcare, agriculture, early childhood education and vocational training centres saying they have improved the lives of residents. He also singled out the employment of over 755 medical personnel which improved the medic-patient ratio to 1: 11,000. The County boss said his administration has also fast-tracked the completion of the Trans Nzoia County Teaching and Referral Hospital which has been equipped with more than 910 beds. The Governor also highlighted the construction of more health centres and dispensaries in all the five sub-counties in the entire county. He said cited that  digitisation of the health systems had played a big role in enhancing medical services “My pledge to the people of Trans Nzoia is to assist the incoming administration to build on what we have managed to do," he said.