Save the Children has launched an ambitious strategy targeting more than one million marginalised and vulnerable children in Kenya, over the next three years. The three-year goal plan directly contributes to Save the Children’s global strategy and builds onto the organisations 2030 ambition of ensuring children survive. The goal plan includes ensuring they learn, are protected and majorly focuses on health and nutrition, education, technical skills for youth and adolescents and the humanitarian situation. Yvonne Arunga, Save the Children Kenya and Madagascar’s Country Director said the strategy focuses on the most marginalised and vulnerable children. “We want our children, when they’re born, to stand the greatest chance of survival. Currently, we are losing too many babies at birth and in the initial years, from preventable causes like pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria and malnutrition,” Yvonne said. “We want children to have safe and quality education and to be in a place where when shocks happen, these children together with their families, don’t fall further behind because they’re already at a disadvantage.” Shem Nyakutu, Secretary of Children’s Services from the Directorate of Children Services lauded Save the Children for the three-year strategy noting that it is an ambitious yet transformative plan that will safeguard the rights of children in Kenya and help them achieve their full potential. He said many of them face various challenges including physical, emotional and sexual abuse, parental neglect, child labour, exploitation, and other forms of violation. “Child Protection calls for a multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary approach to prevent and respond to various ills committed against the child. The Child Protection Workforce, which provides services to children, is drawn from various disciplines and is found in both State agencies and non-state actors," he said. The four goals within the strategy are a product of collaborative efforts between the organisation and key stakeholders including the children, community members, the national and county government, donor partners, civil society organisations among others. The analysis indicates that 942,000 children under five years require treatment for acute malnutrition and 134,000 pregnant and lactating women are acutely malnourished. A report by the Famine and Early Warning System projected the fifth consecutive below-average rainy season between October to December, 2022. “The nutrition situation for children aged 6 – 59 months in Wajir County is critical with Global Acute Malnutrition of 15.9% and Severe Acute Malnutrition of 1.8 %. People are trekking long distances, up to 6.7km in search of water." While making her remarks during the launch ceremony, Hellen Avisa, Deputy Director of Education, Directorate of Field Coordination and Co-Curricular Activities, Ministry of Education, noted that the strategy will go a long way in helping the very marginalised children and those in emergencies, access education. She raised concern about the drought emergency saying it is seriously affecting children and their education. Noting the power of localisation, Save the Children will be implementing the strategy with local partners and communities, national and county governments and most especially children, as they’re at the heart of their initiative. “We are embracing the fact that power is slowly shifting to those we work with, what we call our localisation agenda. In the implementation of our strategic plan we want to progressively increase the leadership and authority of affected people in determining how resources are used within their communities to address their priorities,” said Yvonne.