Last season's Kenyan Premier League top scorer, Derrick Otanga, says he hopes KCB will offer him a new contract when the current one expires this month. Otanga reckons a meeting set for this week will clear the uncertainty clouding his future at the club. “I'm still uncertain about my future at KCB given my contract is set to end before the start of the new season. We are meeting with the management this week and I believe everything will be clearer by the end of the discussion. Popularly known as “Derro” by his dotting fans, Otanga nudged aside relentless competition from Clifton Miheso of Kenya Police and Felix Oluoch of Kariobangi Sharks to strut to the Golden Boot podium. He struck the back of the net 16 times to beat Miheso and Oluoch who netted 15 and 13 goals respectively. The feat didn't come as a surprise. Otanga says scoring goals has always been his principal business, a trade he most definitely thrives in. Goals follow him everywhere he goes and in all the clubs he has featured, Otanga has always emerged ahead of the pack. “My success lies in my powerful right foot that does all the magic for him,” said Otanga. When the mercurial striker completed his move to KCB from Wazito two seasons ago, he dreamt of securing the Golden Boot gong that had proved elusive in all his previous attempts. And after taking successive stabs to no avail, Otanga's bid for the top scorer's award finally bore fruits in the preceding season. “I'm happy with what I managed to achieve this season. I didn't set any particular targets and emerging the top scorer is certainly something to be proud of,” Otanga said. Asked to explain why the bankers experienced a drastic drop in their fortunes after emerging runners-up to Tusker in the 2020/2021 season, Otanga attributed their misfortunes to fatigue. “We simply suffered from fatigue. We were tired after pushing the title contention up to the final day of the 2020/2021 season.” Otanga joined the bankers from Wazito in September 2020 after the moneybags released 11 of their players in a bid to turn around their fortunes in the cutthroat top-flight competition. Before joining the moneybags, the forward-plied trade for the defunct Sony Sugar. Otanga says he draws a lot of inspiration from Portuguese star, Cristino Ronaldo. “It's amazing the amount of work Cristiano puts on the pitch. It's something a serious striker should take time to learn about.” His journey took off at Headquarters FC before he eventually joined Naivas FC in 2017. Later, Otanga leaped Sony Sugar in Awendo. 