President Uhuru Kenyatta's niece and KICC chief executive Nana Gecaga is celebrating 23 years of recovering from being an alcoholic. Nana, who has been vocal about how alcoholism ruined her life, says she is happy about herself as she has remained committed to sobriety. In a video on her Instagram page, Nana said that she is proud of the woman she has since become. "It's the 4th of July and everyone in America is celebrating independence day. But for me, it's an extremely important day for me. I am 23 years sober today. I don't take it for granted. I know there are so many people out there struggling with alcoholism and I want to say, keep on going. The race is within yourself," she said. Nana acknowledged that fighting the addiction is not an easy process but said the important thing is to take it serious. Nana said she takes every day as a blessing and asked her fans to help her celebrate the day. "In as much as how hard it's going to be, look for the people around you to help you and never be ashamed to ask for help. The day I asked for help is the day my life changed. 23 years later I could not even imagine that I could even be a mother of amazing young boys and which is most important. I am strong and independent and I am taking every day as a blessing. So, please help me celebrate." "Whatever the addiction was, be it a couple of days, weeks, years, decades well done. For those still struggling, please take it very seriously and take your life serious. Keep going and you will take minute. Today is my day and I am really proud of the woman I am becoming," she said. In a past interview, Nana admitted that she used to drink up to a crate of beer and a bottle of hard liquor in one sitting. Her love for alcohol blew up some of her dreams, one of which was to become an athlete. Nana took the step to take it slow at the age of 21 after living in the UK for over a decade. She added that the bold move did not come short of challenges, revealing that she lost friends. "The one thing I can say to them is, tomorrow is another day and try to live or get to that day and never be ashamed or too proud to ask for support. Kenya has a lot of support and use it." 