Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna has defended the Jubilee administration's performance with regard to the affordable housing programme. According to Oguna, the delivery of the programme by President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration has been beyond expectations saying 250,000 housing units had been completed across the country. “The current status of Affordable Housing project is 250,000 housing units have been completed across the country. Another 650,000 are in the pipeline, way more than the 500,000 promised by Jubilee Administration," he said on Tuesday. Oguna was responding to sentiments by political analyst Prof Alfred Omenya, who claimed that the “Jubilee Administration has failed to deliver on housing". He further revealed that the houses were in Nairobi’s  Park Road, Jevanjee, Pangani, Mukuru, Soweto ‘B’ and Meteorological Site while  Buxton Point is in Mombasa Bondeni-Nakuru,  Mavoko- Machakos, Kiambu, Embu and others. The Spokesman added that the Affordable Housing Programme had delivered beyond expectations noting that it had now gathered its own momentum, attracting the private sector to move in, thereby, leaving the Government to provide facilitation and oversight. Oguna‘s figure of 250,000 however contradicts Housing PS Charles Hinga ‘s which he said was at least 9,000 houses completed. Despite the hurdles, Hinga revealed that so far, at least 9,000 units have been constructed throughout the country. Last month, Hinga explained why the state was unable to reach the 500,000 target which includes the cost of land among others. He said that as part of the AHP, there are two sets of housing, public housing on state-owned land and the other being delivered by the private sector. "It's not easy to give a figure of how many units have been delivered to date. That is because we have two sets of housing: we have public housing on government land, which is under 9,000 units (that have been delivered). "The balance (units) are being delivered by the private sector. The government's main role is supported. This was after the Housing Fund was frustrated," Hinga explained. Nairobi has four ongoing projects for a total of 21,642 units. Among the 2,235 occupied units in the country, 1,370 are at Park Road, Ngara, 250 in the Kisumu civil servants housing project, 152 in Machakos and 463 in Mavoko. The Affordable Housing Programme aims to ensure decent and affordable housing for low and middle-income households.