ODM national chairman John Mbadi has said Azimio flagbearer Raila Odinga will win the presidency because he has government security on his side. He said Raila failed in his previous stabs despite winning with the overwhelming majority of votes cast. The Suba South MP was addressing residents of Uyoma in Rarieda, Siaya county, on Monday, where he said votes alone cannot make anyone president in this country. “Raila opted for the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta after realising that he cannot get power with votes alone and needs state’s security apparatus,” he said. Mbadi said Raila won election in the past but the security apparatus of the country were against him and ended up frustrating him. He said he is optimistic that Raila will win because Uhuru has openly neglected his deputy William Ruto in his (Raila's) favour. “Raila is automatically the next president after August 9 polls,” Mbadi said. Because of the alleged backing by state machinery, Mbadi sees Raila as having one foot inside State House and only waiting to lift his other foot after the voting exercise. The ODM chairman however urged Nyanza residents to come out in large numbers and once more endorse Raila's candidature at the ballot. He further bemoaned the fact that Luos have never known the sweetness of power, a fact that has seen some Nyanza politicians stubbornly jostle for grassroot positions with ODM candidates. Mbadi said those politicians are derailing Raila’s efforts at a time when God and the state are on his side. “Nyanza has one political kingpin (Raila) whose verdict on political matters is supreme. "He was detained without trial and fled the country severally while initiating strategies for good governance, yet some people are dragging him behind with fringe political outfits,” he said. The chairman said non-ODM candidates will be thrown into the cesspool of political oblivion because they have refused to listen to Raila. Lately, the fortunes of Raila’s ODM, seem to be dwindling and smaller parties have emerged. Other leaders present were Siaya Senator James Orengo, Governor Cornell Rasanga, MPs Oburu Oginga (EALA) and Otiende Amollo (Rarieda). (Edited by Bilha Makokha)