Evans Kavisi and Absalom Aswani have promised to bounce back from their WRC Safari Rally Kenya retirement occasioned by engine problems on the penultimate speed test in Naivasha. The KCB Racing Team duo retired on the second pass of the 13.30km SS18 Narasha test with only Hell’s Gate power stage to spare while leading the WRC national category. Kavisi said: "It’s taken us almost five days to come to terms with what happened. It was one of our best performances with a rather undesirable outcome. We got into a rut that threw us onto the road bank, a very small impact with a very disastrous outcome. The engine ceased and we couldn’t motor on." "We rest in the comfort that it was not the navigator's fault, not driver error nor mechanical failure; things that have plagued us in the past." Nikhil and his partner Deep Patel powered their Mitsubishi  Lancer Evolution 10 to 18th overall and fourth in the Kenya National Rally Championship category Kavisi congratulated his KCB teammates Sachania and Patel for the finish and a brilliant drive throughout the event. "As we forge forward and prepare for the next one, we recognize that we are truly blessed to have partners like @kcbgroup and @mintimotorsport who believe in us and are invested in our future,” Kavisi said. Kavisi and Absalom had a slow start obviously trying to preserve the car for Friday and so their Thursday was easy. Day 2 started well but with cancellation on Loldia in the morning, they proceeded to Geothermal where they had a good run. The duo managed to charge on although the second pass Kedong was again red-flagged. The two ended the day at a steady position of 18, trailing Rally 2’s Amaanraj Rai by almost a minute. Having settled, Kavisi and Aswani tackled the first stage of Day 2 and registered 13 overall fastest time among locals which catapulted them into 14th overall position. But they hit a hidden rock outcrop in the second stage which rattled them, making the duo ease off but managed 15th overall fastest time. Aswani said: “Leg three started off with the cancellation of SS14 Oserian speed test and we proceeded to SS15 Narasha stage which was tough with fesh fesh but we managed 19th fastest and safe to keep their overall position.” “ We then went into loop 2 having dropped a position, this time trailing Carl Tundo by 41 seconds where he also later dropped. This meant they were back on the summit of the National Category, but unfortunately retired due to an engine problem after losing oil from their cooler,”  Aswani expounded.