President Kenyatta may not commission some of his key legacy projects in the Rift Valley region before he exits office after the August 9 polls. Uhuru’s regime has invested more than Sh40 billion on infrastructure, water and manufacturing in the region. Some are complete but have not been commissioned. The Sh9 billion Eldoret Southern Bypass project is now complete but may not be commissioned by the President as had been expected last week when he visited Eldoret to preside over a passing out parade at Moi Barracks Recruits Training College. Uhuru launched construction work on the project just before the last election and was to commission it before he exits office. However, there has been no word on the possibility of him commissioning the road. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Stephen Kihara said contractors are making the final touches and markings on the road before it's opened for use. “This is one of the major government investments in this region in the recent past and we thank the President for ensuring that it's completed during his tenure,” Kihara said. It will help to ease traffic jams in Eldoret town by more than 70 per cent. More than six other major road projects have also been completed in the region during Uhuru’s tenure. Uhuru’s main legacy project in the region is the revival of the Rift Valley Textile company at a cost of more than Sh7 billion. The firm, which had collapsed, now employs about 1,000 people directly and benefits another 10,000 indirectly. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna, who visited Rivatex three weeks ago, said the project was a major achievement under the manufacturing pillar in Uhuru’s Big Four agenda. “Apart from employing our people directly, the company has helped in the revival of the cotton industry that had collapsed in many parts of the country,” he said. Company CEO Thomas Kipkurgat said the ripple effect of the revival of Rivatex will have far-reaching positive effects on the country's economy. “Although we still face shortages of cotton, the revival of Rivatex has opened up many opportunities for our farmers to engage in increasing growth of raw materials for the company,” Kipkurgat said. More than five water projects have also been completed in Uasin Gishu,  West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. The Ellingirin dam project to boost water supply to Eldoret is almost complete and has cost the government about Sh2 billion. Allies of the President in the region, led by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, are upbeat that he will leave behind major legacy projects implemented during his tenure. This is despite the differences he has had with Deputy President William Ruto, especially in the last five years. “We have had major positive changes, especially in the infrastructure sector during Uhuru’s tenure and all the projects he initiated will have a positive impact on the economy in our region,” Tolgos said. Edited by A.N