The ruling Jubilee Party and UDA are set for a titanic duel as they seek to capture the Thika Town parliamentary seat. The race has narrowed down to be a two-horse race between former MP Alice Ng’ang’a (UDA) and businessman-cum-bishop David Ngari alias Gakuyo of Jubilee. The two are already locked in campaigns, wooing voters 20 days to the general election to ascend to the seat currently occupied by Patrick Wainaina alias Wajungle who is running for the Kiambu governor seat. Both parties are keen to capture the MP seat and notable leaders from both camps have been drumming up support for their respective candidates. Last week, the Azimio brigade, led by former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and Murang’a  Woman Representative Sabina Chege, pitched tent in Thika to campaign for Gakuyo. While addressing more that 3,000 non-natives at Mount Kenya University Pavillion Grounds and later at a rally in Makongeni estate, the trio told residents that Gakuyo is the right man for the Thika job, saying, he has the interest of Thika people. “He is the man who will address the plight of Thika residents and ensure that the much needed developments in this region, including water, roads and jobs are achieved. The Azimio government will support him and assist him foster growth in all parts of Thika,” Kalonzo said. They told residents to elect Gakuyo in honour of President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Jubilee Party leader, and given that Thika is the President’s backyard. “Let’s follow the direction that our President has shown us and ensure that we elect people who will stand with the coming government of our president-to-be Raila Odinga,” Munya said. They pleaded with residents of minority communities living in Thika and those supporting Azimio One Kenya Alliance to ensure they vote en masse in Gakuyo’s favour. The bishop has been campaigning on the basis that Thika has been electing people from outside as MP, but now time has come for one of their own to occupy the seat. He has branded Ng'ang'a as among the outsiders, claiming she comes from the neighbouring Juja constituency, while Wainaina has his roots in Gatundu North. Gakuyo also termed former legislators, among them, William Kabogo and Stephen Ndicho, as outsiders having come from Ruiru and Githunguri constituencies respectively. “The trend of bringing and voting leaders who have no clue of what is ailing our people in Thika has been the major problem for Thika residents," he said. "It's the reason why most areas and especially Thika East are still lagging behind in terms of development. We will bring this trend to an end on August 9.” He further said one of the major projects he will embark on is lobbying for the construction of the Madaraka market in Makongeni estate that was torched by arsonists in 2015. The market has been at the centre of the area politics, with the two camps wooing traders with promises of putting up a modern market. Ng’ang’a, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, on Sunday welcomed the Kenya Kwanza brigade at Kimuchu grounds and later on in a tour in Kiganjo and Thika town. The Kenya Kwanza leaders used the rally to drum up support for Ng’ang’a as she seeks to reclaim the seat she lost to Wajungle in the 2017 polls. DP Ruto told Thika residents that he has confidence in the former legislator's ability and capacity to lead Thika and improve the living standards of the common mwananchi. “Support her [Ng’ang’a] because I know she is equal to the task and she will ensure Thika hustlers are well represented in the hustler government,” Ruto said. Ng’ang’a is banking on the transformational projects she undertook during her first term and especially in the education sector. She is also confident that more than the 55,000 votes she garnered in 2017 are still intact and will be in her basket. On Monday, former MP raised concerns over the rampant destruction of her campaign materials by her rivals, saying her posters and banners have been destroyed in the recent weeks. “Our campaign materials have been destroyed maliciously by those who we are competing with.These are intimidations but I won’t be cowed by them because I believe the ultimate decision belongs solely with our people,” she said. The duo is also set to face stiff competition from other candidates, including Njeri Githanga (Chama Cha Kazi), educationist Juma Hemedi (independent) and June Kamunge.  (edited by Amol Awuor)