Azimio coalition secretary-general Junet Mohamed has sensationally claimed that a meeting was held in Karen to discuss the ballot paper tender. The Suna East MP alleges that IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula were the conveners of the meeting. Junet claims it is during the meeting that a deal was hammered out to have Greek ballot printers firm, P Lykos Holdings, handed the tender to supply 200 million ballot papers. "We know that you held meetings severally in Karen with the IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. You can go to court if you want. We know every detail of those meetings," Junet said told Wetangula at a rally in Kiambu county on Wednesday. The Star could however not verify the claims made by Junet by the time of going to the press. IEBC did not respond to our queries on the matter though they have scheduled a press conference on Thursday to address the issue among many others. The fresh revelations by Junet come hot on the heels of a heated debate surrounding reports that the Bungoma senator is linked to the Greek firm. Junet alleged that the officials of the Greek firm visited Kenya disguising themselves as potential investors in Bungoma County. "When IEBC announced ballot papers tender you sent someone called Makokha Abdalla to Greece and you invited those guys from Greece to Kenya pretending to be people wanting to invest in Bungoma. They had come for a deal with you," he said. Wetangula on Wednesday denied knowledge of Abdalla even as he dismissed claims by Junet as "false and malicious". "I know nothing about ballot printing or any printing business for that matter!! I have no relationship of any kind with the person named in the story Joshua Abdalla Makokha," he said in a statement to the newsroom. But Junet has maintained that the senator was a key player in the deal and even dared him to go to court to challenge him. He said the agreement sealed during the meeting will occasion sneaking in of marked ballot papers through the border of Uganda to facilitate what he termed as "the Rigging plot". "We want IEBC to conduct a free, fair and transparent election," Junet said. "This is not a matter that can be taken lightly. A ballot paper is very critical instrument in this election." The Suna East MP said they are watching closely the plot and would unmask them as time goes by. The Kenya Kwanza team led by Deputy President William Ruto has trashed the claims. Led by Garissa Township MP Aden Duale and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, the group said the Azimio team is setting the stage for rejecting the results of the forthcoming elections.