It’s getting dark as Sophia and I crouch behind cows in Chief’s cow pen. We’re here to question Wa Munene, Chief’s son, about a letter he addressed to Sophia, declaring his love for her and his joy that I, Makini, Sophia’s lover, will soon be out of the way after someone stole my official pistol and used it in a murder. Chief cocks his AK-47. “Come out and face me, you cowards!” His voice is strong and menacing, and what’s worse, Chief himself is the size of two men. To explain this, several theories make the rounds in Jiji Ndogo. One of them is that, when he was conceived, Chief had a twin, but then he swallowed the twin and was born to be the giant he is today. The other theory states that, since he turned twenty, the man has been eating one whole goat by himself for every birthday and Christmas. I know, none of them make sense. My theory (which is totally credible) is that Chief is a descendant of Nephilim from the Hebrew Bible; a group of mysterious beings or people of unusually large size and strength who lived both before and after the Flood. “What do we do now?” Sophia asks me. “And why the hell are you laughing?” Yes, despite being under siege by a lunatic the size of Mt Kilimanjaro wielding a loaded rifle, the situation is amusing to me since I’ve been here before. “What do you mean you’ve been here before?” she asks. “I pretended to date Chief’s daughter.” “You what?” She shoots me daggers for eyes. “You never told me that.” “It was a long time ago. Long before you and I.” “And what do you mean by ‘pretended’?” “She was pregnant and I played the boyfriend so her father doesn’t murder her.” “So he wanted to murder you instead?” “You catch on fast.” “Are there other women you’ve played hero knight for that I should know?” BOOM! Chief shoots in the air. “I’m giving you to the count of three. One!” “Can we talk about this later?” I say. “There’s a man with only half his marbles itching to drill us full of holes.” “No, Makini. I wanna hear about it now.” “Two!” “This man is crazy, Sophie. He means to shoot us.” “If you’ve been sleeping with every woman in Jiji Ndogo, I seriously don’t mind him shooting you. Were you living together with this woman?” “Three! I mean it.” “Yes, but only until she gave birth. She had nowhere else—” “In our house?” Her eyes are ablaze. “I was being a gentleman.” “Three and a half! I’ll kill all those damn cows if I have to.” Sophia shoots to her feet, hands in the air. “He’s right here, Chief. You can shoot him.” She takes out her gun and points it at me. “Or I will.” “What are you doing?” I ask. For the first since I’ve known him, Chief is momentarily speechless. “You’re both trespassing on my property. Why would you want to shoot him?” “I hate liars, Chief. And irresponsible men. He impregnated your daughter and ran. Now I’m pregnant with your son’s baby.” “What?” Chief and I chorus. She pats her belly. “Yes, Chief. Your grandson is only three months old, but he already kicks like a donkey.” Chief laughs. “That sounds like my grandbaby, alright. Hell, what’re you doing down there. Come in. Let’s talk inside.” “Again, the hell are you doing, Sophie?” I hiss as she hauls me to my feet. “Just follow my lead, Mr. Casanova.”