Human rights activists in Kisumu have demanded immediate transfer of Kisumu Central Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit commander Ngoja Mwero Bora over nepotism and intimidation of junior officers. Led by Audi Ogada, the activists called for a thorough investigation of Bora over integrity, intimidation, nepotism and using abusive language on his junior officers. Ogada said such officers with questionable integrity should not be tolerated in Kisumu as he was openly causing division and animosity among the officers. He called on the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to take stern action against the officer and transfer him within seven days. “We are heading to general election and we expect officers to be neutral while maintaining law and order and not an officer who only promotes favouritism and nepotism,” he said. When contacted, Bora denied the allegations, terming them baseless. “I cannot, [for example], use a government vehicle without approval from my commanders.” Junior officers have accused Bora of frustrating and threatening them with transfers as he favours other officers “friendly” to him. An officer, who sought anonymity, claimed that the CIPU commander has been targeting officers from a particular tribe and using abusive language against them. Bora, however, said such were false and threatened to arrest any journalist who dared write the story. “I will arrest you if you write such a story and nobody will stop me,” he said on the phone. The officers said the favouritism by the commander has caused division and animosity among the officers as the country heads to the polls next month. The officers claimed that their bosses are using fellow junior officers to frustrate, intimidate and harass them which should not be the case in police service. They pointed out that favouritism, abusive language and nepotism were rife since Bora took over and called for urgent intervention on the matter. The officers said that some of their colleagues allied to Bora are given friendly assignments and, in return, they give their boss “something”, an allegation that Bora dismissed. They alleged that Bora openly threatens officers and that some are depressed and are now contemplating resigning while some are on a go slow. “We are currently being assigned duties by our junior officers whom we are senior to. We are depressed and nobody is there to protect us from the intimidation and harassment,” an officer said. The officer said Bora has threatened that those officers who are not aligned with him will face the full wrath after the general election. “You officers should know that I will take you to unknown destinations after the election. Nobody can block me from doing such,” Bora was quoted to have told the officers three times during a parade. The CIPU commander allegedly uses four officers who are his right-hand men to do personal errands. Bora has denied all these allegations.  (edited by Amol Awuor)