Politicians who cause violence in Nyanza risk being blocked from participating in the August 9 general election. Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika told journalists in Mbita on Friday measures are in place to ensure those who cause violence are punished. After meeting all chiefs in Homa Bay on Friday, Mutindika warned they will not tolerate any politician who breaches peace while campaigning in the region. Mutindika was accompanied by Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan and director of the Presidential Delivery Unit Silvance Osele. “We have talked to our chiefs and all our officers on the ground to monitor the conduct of politicians during their campaigns,” Mutindika said. Those found culpable for causing violence will be reported to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, with the intention of nullifying their candidature. “Every candidate signed the Electoral Code of Conduct, which they must abide by. Those who breach it will have their names taken to the IEBC and they risk losing their candidature,” he said. Mutindika said even youths who cause violence will not be tolerated. He cited the example of violence in Karachuonyo constituency in Homa Bay last month. Youths behind the trouble were arrested. “All we want is peace before, during and after the elections. We have instructed chiefs to work with other security organs on the ground to ensure we have a friendly environment during the electioneering period,” Mutindika said. Adequate security preparedness and response measures have been put in place, he said. The leaders also discussed how to ensure uninterrupted services to citizens by all government departments and security government assets during electioneering. “We have assessed challenges and proposed practical solutions aimed at a peaceful transition," Mutindika said. The leaders also focused on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development scorecard and evaluated projects to be completed by July 31 and those to be fast-tracked. (Edited by V. Graham)