Two organisations have started a programme in Kajiado to feed 22,000 children in 27 schools. The Imbirrikani community, through their group ranch chairman Daniel Metui, thanked Big Life Foundation and the Big Plains Foundation for raising funds to feed children in four group ranches, including Imbirrikani. The food includes maize flour, porridge flour and meat. Metui said the Big Life Foundation and the Big Plains Foundation have been involved in many community projects such as supporting them in paying school fees for bright children from poor backgrounds and employing teachers. Metui said the Big Life Foundation is giving full scholarships to 300 university students from the community and has been doing so for the years it has been in Imbirrikani. “We are now calling upon the Great Plains Foundation to put permanent offices in Imbirrikani. I'm thanking them for their effort in joining with others in saving our children during the drought,” Metui said. The chairman was speaking on Saturday at Enjape Primary School during the start of the distribution of food to 27 schools. The occasion was graced by Big Life Foundation executive chairman Richard Bonham, CEO Benson Ntoyian, consultant Joel Leshao, Great Plains Foundation official Jonathan Kone, among other dignitaries and teachers. Kone said his foundation is supporting the Imbirrikani Maasai community through the employment of teachers in public schools. “So far we have employed 25 primary school teachers in the permanent and pensionable scheme,” he said. Kone, a liaison officer at the foundation, said their organisation is a member of the task force picked to raise money for the ongoing feeding programme in four group ranches in the Kajiado South subcounty. “After missing the April long rains this year, we formed a drought mitigation task force committee and the Great Plains Foundation through me decided to donate food to all schools in Imbirrikani group ranch for five months starting July to November this year,” he said. He said the Great Plains Foundation is also preparing an eye clinic programme in all schools in Imbirrikani group ranch.