The Automobile Association of Kenya has held a safety awareness campaign dubbed 'Safe to school' in a bid to instil road safety. The campaign was held on Monday at the Machakos Country Bus station. “We were checking at safety belts and encouraging the passengers and the crew to use them," AA Kenya Public Relations and Marketing manager Paul Oima said. "These things are not meant that you only have them on when a police officer is coming. But it is something you should have on every now and then.” AA Kenya is a national motoring  organisation dedicated to promoting and safeguarding the interests and safety of motorists. The association has been promoting road safety in the country for more than 100 years. The road safety awareness campaign is meant to raise awareness of road safety during the back-to-school season. Students and the public using buses at the termini were engaged, highlighting the need for passengers to remain conscious of their safety. Police officers were present during the sensitisation that covered 80 long-distance buses. Oima said 80 per cent of the buses had students thronging back to school as schools reopens. “The one going to the Machakos area was full of students.” He said the campaigns will be continuous and will happen each time schools are opening and closing. The campaigns will on Tuesday take place near Uhuru Park and will target school buses. Some of the drivers were rewarded with caps showing that they are safe drivers. During the campaign, drivers were also sensitised on the need to drive at safe speeds so that they can control their vehicles during emergencies. “We told the drivers that it is not about the speed but it is about that kind of movement that when you need to stop comes, you are able to stop the vehicle,” Oima said. The AA Kenya manager said they found out that 90 per cent of the drivers do not use safety belts yet the vehicles have them. “Most of the safety belts were so dusty, meaning that they have not been used for a period of time.” The campaign comes even as statistics from the National Transport and Safety Authority show that 2,300 people have lost their lives as of June 30, as compared to 2,156 same period last year, a variance of 6.7 per cent. Oima said all the vehicles inspected were also fitted with stickers to help spread the campaigns. Some of the stickers had information such as speed thrills but it kills. Others had information such as safety is as simple as A, B, C, D —always be careful. Oima said the passengers were also sensitised on the need to monitor their drivers. “Passengers in these vehicles have a duty to monitor the driver of every vehicle. If he is driving very carelessly, then it is your duty to tell him to hold on and stop or slow down,” he said. The manager further said passengers must also speak up if the vehicle is carrying more than its capacity, but cautioned them against harassing the driver. “Occasionally, we have seen instances where passengers harass drivers by telling them that they are late, drive fast, why are you being overtaken by other vehicles,” he said. Oima said such utterances may make a driver speed in a way that will endanger the lives of the passengers. He said nationally, they are planning to advance road safety awareness discussion. “We want to move the conversation from, if I go beyond this speed I will be arrested, to a conversation where somebody says if I go at this speed, I will be safe," the AA Kenya manager said. "If an emergency were to occur, I will be able to stop the vehicle. That is the conversation that we are going to drive nationally.”  (edited by Amol Awuor)