A family in Mombasa is appealing to the government to help them transport the body of their daughter, who died mysteriously in Saudi Arabia. Grace Atieno left Mombasa for Saudi Arabia in March this year in search of greener pastures but died three weeks ago. She was working as a domestic worker. Before leaving Kenya, Atieno was working as a security guard in one of the private security companies in Mombasa. "She was the eldest of my daughters. She supported us in every way. When Covid-19 came, her salary was cut by a huge margin and she started looking for ways to work in Saudi Arabia," Monica Adhiambo, Atieno's mother said. Adhiambo said the recruitment agency which took her daughter to Saudi Arabia abandoned her in her hour of need. She said Atieno worked in two houses before her death. She stayed for a month in her first job before she had differences with the employer. Atieno complained to her agent in Saudi Arabia and was taken to a different home. Shortly after she started working again, Atieno developed complications, which were dismissed by her bosses as normal and minor issues, Adhiambo said. All this time Atieno had her phone with which she used to communicate with her mother in Kenya. When her health deteriorated, Atieno recorded a video clip begging her mother and the government to help her return home. In the four-minute video clip seen by the Star, the deceased is seen struggling to speak, as she pauses several times to gasp for air. "I have been having stomach pains. The agent said that that was normal. As time went on, I got worse and started vomiting and passing blood in the stool. They gave me syrup," Atieno said in the video clip. Besides, the mother said, Atieno was not being given food during her sick days. "She was not eating regularly during that time– just a single meal a day. I told her to come back to Kenya but she said if her agent and employer knew that she was reporting her mistreatment, her phone would be taken away," Adhiambo said. The mother says she asked Samoline Recruitment Agency director Josephine Muriuki (in Kenya) to return her daughter but she told her to give them another girl in exchange for Atieno. "I promised to give them another girl, but she said they didn't have money to facilitate Atieno's air travel and asked me to raise the money," Adhiambo said. Atieno's mother said after that the recruitment agency went silent on the family and they stopped answering their calls completely. Meanwhile, Atieno had moved to the agent's office in Saudi Arabia, where she was under the care of some Ugandans. The Ugandan women started calling and asked the mother to quickly facilitate Atieno's travel money because she was in a bad condition. "Samoline agent-based in Saudi Arabia called and lied to me that my daughter had been taken to hospital. The following day they called and said Atieno had succumbed," the mother said. Adhiambo is yet to establish the cause of her daughter's death. She said by the time she left Kenya she was healthy and had no record of any severe illness. "I am pleading with the government to kindly bring back my daughter's body for burial. I'm so poor I can't afford the air ticket," she said. Francis Auma, a rapid response officer at Muslim for Human Rights condemned the death and asked the government to help the family get the body and justice. "This year alone, we have received four cases of Kenyans dying in Saudi Arabia. The government has neglected its people. We don't even get reports on the causes of their deaths," Auma said. Auma accused recruitment agents of "duping innocent Kenyans into modern-day slavery" to make money, without caring about their victims. The human rights officer called for investigations into Atieno's death. "Atieno’s death was so unfortunate and avoidable. We shall follow up on this matter and if there is any foul play, we shall ensure the culprits are brought to book," Auma said. However, Muriuki said she followed the right process in taking Atieno to Saudi Arabia. "We involved the Ministry of Labour, Foreign Affairs and the receiving agents in Riyadh," she said. Further, she said there are plans to bring Atieno's body to Kenya. "Even today I've talked with the Foreign Affairs Office in Riyadh. The Eid al-Adha observance delayed the process a bit, but plans are underway to bring the body to Kenya soonest," she said. Further, she objected to claims that she had neglected Atieno's family, saying she even visited her family in Mombasa to console them and make plans for transporting the body from Saudi Arabia. "I'm a mother and I can't promote brutal business deals. I've been a director for 10 years. It's because of my proper work that my license is renewed every year," she said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)