Administrators have dismissed claims by Kenya Kwanza leaders that they are being used to campaign for their Azimio opponents. They said they are strictly neutral. Kenya Kwanza figures headed by presidential candidate William Ruto on Wednesday said administrators were being misused by the state to advance the interests of one political camp. The Deputy President, while campaigning in Makueni, said he was aware of reports that chiefs, assistants and county commissioners are being forced to support his rivals. He said it was against the Constitution to coerce the administrators, including all other public servants, to engage in political activities at the expense of unbiased public service. “There are people using administrators to campaign for Azimio. I want to tell you (Azimio) that if you have exhausted all your ideas, stop using misusing them. They are not your servants,” Ruto said. He added, “Our provincial administration members, nobody should blackmail or intimidate you to run errands for any political party. "You are servants of the people, protected by the Constitution, be faithful and serve all equally.” But speaking in his office on Thursday, Kisii county commissioner Allan Macharia denied claims the government was favouring certain candidates in the county’s governor's race. The government, he said, would only provide a secure environment for all the candidates to campaign. "It is utterly wrong to imagine that there are people in the government trying to favour certain candidates in any political contest. Ours is a neutral role and that is to guarantee safety for all,” Macharia said. He said security agencies in the country would continue to remain vigilant to deal with any form of hooliganism as the country as the general election comes closer. "Even as we do this, we urge our officers to restrain themselves from using unnecessary force to prevent deaths. We want every Kenyan to continue with their lives after the elections,” he Macharia said. At least six police officers were injured during a confrontation between the riot police and a mob in Kisii on Wednesday. The protesters were agitating for the removal of certain IEBC officers over allegations they are related to some candidates. Machari said already the Commission has begun acting on registered complaints and further demonstrations should be stopped. "We want our people to rest assured the National Commission on Integration and Cohesion has begun to look into those claims already and end further protests,” he said He said criminal gangs have already begun to take advantage of the protests to cause mayhem. Property worth millions of shillings was destroyed during the running battles between police and the protesters at the Agricultural Resource Centre. Governor candidates Chris Obure and Ezekiel Machogu condemned the protests. They accused ODM governor candidate Simba Arati of sponsoring the chaos. Onyonka told the Machogu team to stop dragging the name of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i into Kisii politics. But speaking Thursday, the Azimio brigade led by Arati and Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyoka accused Machogu and outgoing governor James Ongwae of sponsoring the gangs infiltrating ‘otherwise peaceful protesters’. Machogu and Ongwae have since denied the accusations telling, Arati to carry his own cross. (Edited by V. Graham)