The first team of presidential candidates' representatives is in Greece to inspect the printing of ballot papers. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had struck a deal with presidential candidates to send their agents to visit the printing company's factories to assess the process. However, the Star established that visa delays saw the agents fail to travel since last week. The first team, which included former journalist Ben Agina, left on Wednesday evening. Agina, who is working in Raila's presidential campaign secretariat, left Kenya on Wednesday to join the first team in Greece after his visa was released. “We managed to get one visa for Agina who left with the first team,” Raila's legal advisor Paul Mwangi said. Lawyer Velma Maumo, who was to join Agina, was yet to secure her visa by Thursday. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, the chairperson of the William Ruto presidential campaign secretariat, is expected in Greece to represent Ruto's United Democratic Alliance party. The team will tour Lykos SA company, which was contracted by the IEBC to print ballot papers. Commissioners Juliana Cherera (vice chairperson), Francis Wanderi and Boya Molu will lead the team from the electoral commission. The commission hopes to ship the presidential ballots into the country by the end of the month. While the IEBC had extended invitations to the other two presidential candidates- George Wajackoya and David Waihiga Mwaure-they, however, haven't sent their agents. It has not been immediately clear why the two did not send their representatives to inspect the ballot papers printing exercise in what IEBC said was the process of building confidence. Political parties are expected to foot the costs of their agents including travel and accommodation expenses during the all-important trip. The commission had extended invitations to other stakeholders including the media, the civil society and election observers to accompany their team to Greece. The total delegation expected in Greece will be about 13 representatives including religious leaders. The IEBC has said the visit will enable stakeholders including the candidates to witness how the printing, packaging and logistics of the electoral process are done.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris