Two Kenyans are fighting for their lives after they were allegedly assaulted by their Korean bosses at a multi-billion government project in Konza Technopolis City. James Karia and Wilson Mang'ira sustained severe injuries and were admitted at Shalom Community Hospital in Machakos county. The two were among eight employees attacked by the Koreans on Thursday at the company's boardroom after their push for better working conditions turned ugly. The incident has attracted the interest of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Machakos subcounty deputy criminal investigations officer Charles Wanjohi confirmed the incident. He said they had launched investigations on the assault claims and are at an advanced stage. The matter was reported to Konza police station. Wanjohi said six victims were rushed to hospital, treated and discharged, while Karia and Mang'ira are still admitted. He said the Koreans work for BoMI Engineering & Construction Company, the firm awarded the multi - billion deal to build the Korean Advanced Institute of Science & Technology. The officer spoke on Saturday during a consultative meeting between Education PS Simon Nabukwesi, Kalama subcounty security team and the project's consultant at BoMI offices in Konza Technopolies City. Nabukwesi said the assault triggered demonstrations of the more than 300 workers who demanded the arrest of the Koreans. He said the workers also wanted 20 colleagues who had been sacked, returned to work. Karia gave a chilling account of their ordeal to Nabukwesi when he visited them in hospital. Mang'ira was at pains to narrate the ordeal during the PS's visit. He, however, said he was critically injured by his attackers. "I fear for my life, my condition is worsening," a struggling Karia said, adding that he was losing his hearing ability. He said he was assaulted by Koreans known to him. Karia said one of the Koreans hit him on his lower abdomen with a taser making him unconscious. "We were eight, but the Koreans attacked us in large numbers. Some blocked the door while they reigned blows and kicks on us. One of them pulled out a taser from his pocket and hit me on the lower abdomen. "They tied my face using an apron I had removed from my body. I was agitating for our rights as workers when I was attacked.  They also switched off CCTV cameras during the attack," he said. Karia said he had worked with his attackers for the last four months. "I had gone to the office to enquire why they had laid us off and reduced pay from Sh1,500 to Sh500 per day. They also don't want us to join the workers union," he said. Nabukwesi also visited BoMI in Konza on Saturday following the attacks and workers' unrest. The PS was accompanied by the ministry's project manager Roselida Owuor. He held a consultative meeting with area security committee led by Kalama deputy county commissioner Milka Kariuki and Korean project's consultants. "We are here because there were fights among workers of BoMI construction and several got injured by Koreans working here. "We came to solve the conflict, reconcile and improve relations among them, for the project to continue as expected and be completed by September 23, 2023 as scheduled," Nabukwesi said. He said the project will cost Sh16 billion to be completed. The PS said KAIST will be the first top Science & Technology University in the region. He said the university will offer science, engineering and technology courses to the PhD level. Nabukwesi however said the project started in March 2021, but hasn't progressed as expected. He said there could have been a complete university's signature building by now, so that they start advertising for students. "However, the project isn't being implemented in the speed needed. We have come here to agree on things relating to the welfare of workers. BoMI must follow laid down procedures according to the Kenyan law," he said. Nabukwesi said language barrier, which resulted to poor communication and incompetence among the Koreans are the major challenges in the project implementation. "There should be improved communication to avoid incidences of conflicts that will stall the project as it happened on Thursday, making workers down their tools in protest until today," he said. The PS urged the workers to continue working hard and improve on their communication with the company's management. "This will ensure that more workers don't get injured due to such unnecessary attacks again," he said. Nabukwesi said the contractor should subcontract Kenyan companies to speed up the project. "The contract agreement states that Kenyans should do 49 per cent of this work.  However, they are employing Kenyans so that they work for wages, which they decide on their own," he said. The PS said the workers should be paid according to the Kenyan labour laws and all given contracts. "We will not allow Kenyans to be oppressed.  We will follow the rule of law," he said. Nabukwesi also demanded the immediate arrests of the Koreans who assaulted the workers. "Those who have assaulted Kenyans will be dealt with according to the law. That's the reason we are here with the DCI and his team," he said. The PS further urged the workers to avoid confrontations with the Koreans and instead work peacefully. "They should channel their complaints through a structured leadership hierarchy and to Konza police station, instead of confrontations," he said. Nabukwesi said workers' grievances were being addressed by relevant authorities. He said their welfare and work environment also have to be looked into as a matter of urgency. The PS said since the workers work 24-7 at the construction site,  BoMI should establish a well-equipped hospital with qualified medical personnel. The personnel he said should including doctors, clinical officers, nurses, and pharmacists, in line with the contract agreement between the two countries. Nabukwesi said the workers should also be offered NHIF and NSSF services. So that when the project comes to an end, they are paid for all their services. The PS also ordered the hospital's management to offer security to the victims of the attack. He directed that no BoMI official should visit the patients, but they should clear the medical bills. Some of the workers' grievances included poor communication, unfounded BoMI structures, poor terms and conditions of work. Also, insults from the Koreans, lack of job contacts, unnecessary dismissals without pay, victimisation, harassment and mistreatment while on duty. The workers also said the contractor had reduced their wages from Sh1,500 a day to Sh500. Kariuki said the DCI was already investigating the attack claims. "Anybody found capable of the assaults will face the rule of law irrespective of who they are. They will carry their own crosses," she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)