Governor Anyang Nyong’o has come under sharp criticism over for barring candidates from holding political rallies within Kisumu's Central Business District. The move, which also bars candidates from hoisting billboards and posters within the CBD, has sparked public outcry after the governor planted his posters along major streets in the city. Former Kisumu governor Jack Ranguma accused Nyong’o of unfair treatment terming the ban as political and a ploy to gain the upper hand over other candidates. Ranguma, who is seeking to recapture the seat he lost to Nyong’o on a Movement for Democracy and Growth ticket, said the move is draconian and illegal. “When you see a candidate coming up with such measures, it means that he has sensed defeat and is doing everything possible to try and curtail others,” he said. Ranguma said it was wrong and unfair for Nyong’o to bar other candidates from the vote-rich CBD and still go ahead to erect his billboards and posters. “I have struggled to look for space to put my billboards in the CBD in vain. I recently got space near the airport but the city management is now threatening to deregister the firm hosting the billboard,” he said. The former county chief asked the governor to be tolerant and considerate of other candidates to avoid unnecessary confrontation as the election date draws near. All candidates, he said, must be allowed to move freely across the county to seek votes from the electorate. “If a candidate feels that it is within the CBD where his or her votes are, that candidate must be allowed to campaign there as long as it is within the campaign schedule submitted to the IEBC,” Ranguma said. He asked the IEBC to take up the matter to ensure that there is a level playing ground as campaigns for the August 9 general election reach homestretch. Meanwhile, Kisumu City Manager Abala Wanga has defended the move saying it targets to protect the city’s aesthetics. He said the the county government has spent millions of shillings to beautify the city and if political rallies are allowed in the area, the infrastructure shall be destroyed. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)