The Football Kenya Federation (FK) Transition Committee has asked embattled National Super League club Zoo Kericho to carry their own cross. In an exclusive interview, the FKF Transition Committee's head of secretariat, Lindah Ogutu, insisted Zoo's woes were self-inflicted. The club suffered a deadly blow on Thursday after the world football governing body, FIFA relegated them from the National Super League. Before Fifa's shock decision, Zoo had pulled out of the country's second-tier a fortnight ago, raising grave concerns about how the Transition Committee managed the league. But Ogutu remains categorical Zoo's outcry is some sort of wet-baby-cry-stuff meant to distract the public from underlying issues. “Zoo's grudge against the Transition Committee is politically instigated. Some people have been using the club to settle some scores,” Ogutu said without expounding further. “Why would we have anything personal against the team? We formed a Disciplinary Committee to look into various issues raised by clubs and if they have any genuine concerns they certainly knew who to approach,” Ogutu said. In a letter dated June 21 and signed by the deputy chairperson of the Disciplinary Committee, Anin Yeboah, Fifa said it decided to relegate Zoo after implicating the club in match-fixing scandals. The setback is the third in a series of hiccups experienced by the club most recently. In April 2021, Fifa demoted Zoo from the Kenyan Premier League over match-fixing allegations. They went ahead and featured in the National Super League in the ongoing 2021/22 season, a move Fifa has now attributed to misinterpretation of its initial ruling. "The decision to sanction Zoo FC is related to a series of (KPL) matches deemed to have been manipulated between 2018 and 2020 by individuals belonging to the club, as a consequence of which the club has been held responsible for the behaviour of its members," read Fifa's letter in part. Fifa has also slapped Zoo with a Sh6m fine payable in 30 days, a failure to which the club will be subjected to a transfer ban and be locked out of any competitions both locally and internationally. Fifa Disciplinary Committee in a letter dated said Zoo attracted the fine after failing to comply in full with the decision rendered by the Fifa on April 23, 2021. Meanwhile, Zoo Kericho chairman Ken Ochieng said they have notified Fifa of their decision to appeal the decision, adding that the severity of the punishment is unbearable. In April 2021, Fifa relegated Zoo FC to the third-tier league after being found culpable of match-fixing. “Zoo FC are granted a final deadline of 30 days as from notification of the present decision in which to comply in full with its obligations under the above-mentioned Fifa decisions." "In particular, the order of relegation of the first team of Zoo FC to the FKF Division One for the next season shall be implemented before the start of the season 2022/2023. “Should the first team of Zoo FC not have been relegated to the FKF Division One upon the initiation of the 2022/2023 season, Zoo FC shall be automatically expelled from all national and international competition."