Most Kenyans who reported police officers to the Independent Police Oversight Authority last year accuse them of negligence and inaction, the body’s report to Parliament shows. The report to the National Assembly details what the authority has done for the year ending June 2021 and summarises some of the milestones it has achieved as well as the challenges it is facing. In the report, negligence in doing their work as well as failing to take action over matters that members of the public report to them top the complaints the body dealt with. The authority received 413 such complaints and some 204 allegations of abuse of office. Complaints about physical assault causing serious bodily harm ranked third, with some 119 complaints filed. Ipoa also received 118 complaints of harassment. Others were administrative issues (58) and physical assault resulting in non-serious harm (55), among others. The year 2021 saw fewer complaints relating to extrajudicial killings and use of brute force. For example, the authority received 55 complaints about death resulting from police action, 21 grievances about death in police custody, and 15 about shooting causing injuries, the report says. Further, the report also shows the body received 39 cases in which police officers were accused of threatening the lives of the complainants. Some 54 complaints were about corruption or extortion by the officers. The report also shows 15 cases of sexual offences were reported by complainants to the authority. Enforced disappearance category saw 12 complaints filed. This shows a decline in the number of complaints relating to police brutality and extrajudicial killings. However, data by a coalition of civil society groups claimed that police had brutalised and killed 219 people in 2021. The Missing Voices data suggested a sharp rise in the cases of extrajudicial killings, a worrying trend over the last three years. The 219 cases of police killings and forced disappearances were documented across the country in 161 incidents reported in 2021. Some 187 alleged murders were linked to the police, while 32 others were about abduction. At least 36 were cases of enforced disappearances and four were found dead more than 24 hours after disappearing in police custody. Police have rejected these figures, saying the data collected by the coalition of lobbies was unreliable and included thugs that were legitimately killed. In fact, for 2022, the coalition, through the platform of Missing Voices, indicated that police killed 53 people within the first three months of this year. Police have denied the claims, saying the data is unreliable. The platform is mounted by a coalition of lobby groups that include the International Justice Mission, Amnesty International, KHRC and Muhuri. “According to our data, 53 people have been killed by the police or disappeared in 2022,” the platform said. "Out of the number, 50 deaths were as a result of police killings. Two of the deceased first went missing before being discovered dead." Three of the people disappeared in police custody, the data shows. Failure of the Ipoa report to capture these figures suggests that either not all people report the cases to the authority or some of the incidents noted by the civil society groups did not come to its attention.