Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga on Sunday received a warm welcome in Kericho where he pitched a tent for campaigns. Raila during the tour promised to seal all loopholes being used by a few corrupt people in Kenya. He dismissed calls requiring him to retire saying he is fit to lead. “My critics are afraid since they know of their fate moment I become Kenya's fifth president,” Raila said. Speaking before a huge crowd at Moi Gardens in Kericho town, Raila said he will ensure all those who have been dipping fingers in national coffers account for how they acquired their immense wealth. “Those who have been dipping fingers in our national coffers will be made to account for how they amassed the immense wealth once we win the presidency,” Raila said. At least five choppers flew key leaders of the Azimio coalition to the Kericho meeting. Accompanied by a section of Rift Valley and Western Kenya leaders under the umbrella of Azimio, Raila said he is ready to serve Kenyans diligently. He said he will make Kenya an industrial country with the resources that are available for economic growth and the creation of employment for the millions of jobless youth. Raila chided his opponent William Ruto accusing him of being corrupt. He questioned his huge donations to churches, schools and charitable groups saying the amount he dishes out is not commensurate to his earnings. Karua described Raila as a clean leader who cannot be linked to any corruption, murder or nepotism. He said Kenya should expect to reap much from his leadership adding that they wil seal all corruption loopholes. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth said Kenya will be a different nation under the Azimio rule. He challenged deputy president William Ruto to tell Kenyans what miracles he will perform to make life simple for the majority of the poor. “In ten-year rule as deputy president, Ruto only managed to give Kenyan youth wheelbarrows that cannot transform their economic being,” Peter Kenneth said. He thanked the South Rift people for turning in large numbers to welcome Raila and Martha Karua in the region perceived to be United Democratic Movement Alliance(UDA) stronghold. Others who accompanied Raila and Karua included Sally Koske, Elgeyo Marakwet governor Tosgos, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya, KANU secretary general Nick Salat, COTU boss Francis Atwoli and one-time Bureti MP Paul Sang. Atwoli who was given a chance to address the gathering promised to work closely with Azimio leaders by ensuring the increasing cases of unemployment occasioned by mechanization are dealt with once and for all. “We as a nation cannot sit back and relax at a time when most jobs are being phased out by mechanization. we will one day wake up and say enough is enough as we endeavour to make life bearable for the youth” Atwoli said.