Civil rights groups advocating for Women’s Health and Human Rights have slammed the Ministry of Health over the recent launch of the National Reproductive Health Policy. The groups are claiming that the Ministry did not actively engage them nor did they conduct any meaningful public participation while coming up with the policy. In a joint press statement, the rights groups decried the Ministry’s lack of concern over the complaints they said they had raised prior to the 10-year policy being launched. “This launch comes after months of repeated requests for meaningful engagement in the policy development and review process. The policy lacked public participation and critical health interventions,” they said. They said that the Ministry attempted to launch the policy on March 23 but it was suspended after a section of rights groups caused an uproar for the same lack of engagement. Consequently, the rights groups boycotted the launch of the policy adding that the document had several other problematic clauses. Rachael Mwikali, co-founder of the Coalition for Grassroots Human Rights Defenders Kenya said that the Division of Reproductive Health at MOH needs to be held accountable for the series of irregular decisions and malpractices throughout this process. “We are formally disengaging and withdrawing from this process. Our organizations reject inclusion in the list of participants and demand that we are no longer associated with a problematic, oppressive document,” she said. Prof Moses Obimbo, Secretary-General of the Kenya Obstetrical Gynecological Society (KOGS) said that MOH failed to be transparent throughout the policy process. “Views from professional bodies like KOGS on reproductive health were not considered. The policy as it stands fails to adequately address critical issues such as teenage pregnancy, assisted reproduction, and the high maternal mortality rates from unsafe abortions,” he said. During the Policy’s launch, Health Permanent Secretary Susan Mochache said that the policy was progressive as it provided holistic reproductive health services. “This policy is comprehensive and spans the entire lifespan of Kenyan reproductive healthcare needs, from children born with ambiguous genitalia, all the way to a senior citizen struggling with unique reproductive health needs like menopause,” she said. She said that they had captured divergent opinions and allowed public participation all through the planning and development process. However, the groups said that the whole process was shrouded in secrecy, the final copies of the revised draft not being provided to them at the Policy’s last validation meeting. Jedidah Maina, Executive Director at Trust for Indigenous Culture and Health (TICAH) said that no legitimate validation process happened. “The ministry’s reluctance and resistance on this matter stand out, especially since in practice, all previous drafts have been publicly shared long before any plans for launch,” she said. They took query with sections of the policy including the ethicality of Crisis Pregnancy Centers that will be put up to help with unintended pregnancies. “They sneaked in Crisis Pregnancy Centers as a solution to unplanned and unintended pregnancies,” they said. They said that Crisis Pregnancy Centers are businesses set up to mislead young pregnant people and victims of rape that will help and give unidirectional fear-based counselling. “This will deny young people health care as provided for in our laws,” they said. They also said the policy leaves out large populations from accessing reproductive health by only making provisions for certain services for married couples alone. They called upon Cabinet Secretary of Health, Mutahi Kagwe, and Acting Director-General for Health, Dr Patrick Amoth, to provide clarity on how the Ministry shall ensure meaningful public participation in policy-making moving forward. “We also call upon the Commission of Administrative Justice to investigate the Ministry’s refusal to have open and transparent policymaking processes on sexual and reproductive health,” they concluded.