Residents of Nairobi City County 'old' estates in Eastlands area have cautioned against a rush by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) to award contracts to redevelop their homes. Representatives from Maringo, Jericho, Lumumba and Bahati said they would not support the urban renewal projects without proper consultation and public participation. Speaking when they paid a courtesy call to Nairobi Senator and Kenya Kwanza Governor candidate Johnson Sakaja, the residents said they are preparing to file a case in court against the projects. “In this campaign period there is a rush to do things we don’t support. Our homes are the only narrative we want to hear and we will not accept to be displaced,” said Jericho Residents Association chairman Antony Maina. “In Eastlands, our tribe is home and our party is homes.” At least 60,000 housing units are expected to be  set up for Nairobi’s Phase Two Affordable Housing Programme. The 10 estates marked for upgrade include Woodely, Bahati, ,Maringo, Jericho, Lumumba, Ziwani, Embakasi, California, Kariobangi and Bondeni As part of the redevelopment plan, the Bahati Estate project will see the construction of 12,000 high-density storied buildings of between six and 16 floors, consisting of three, two and one-bedroom units to replace bungalows sitting in the 20.4 hectares estate. Another 6000 units will be set up in Woodley estate, Bondeni (774), California (2,500), Lumumba (10,000), Maringo (8,000), Kariobangi North (1,500) and Embakasi (4,000). Going further, Jericho Residents Association chairman Antony Maina said the government should approach residents as equal partners in the project and consider their opinions before awarding contracts that could lead to demolition of the houses in which their families have been tenants for generations. He argued that no public participation was conducted. “So far there has been no public participation. What we have seen is selection of a few people from other estates to sit in meetings as if they are representing our interests. Even our sitting MCAs have not been accountable to us on this issue,” Maina said. The association Secretary Wilson Nzau, said the residents will hold a demonstration on 30th July against the projects. “We understand this urban renewal of our estate started six years ago and now is when they want to start consulting us. We reject this because they never started with us. It seems we, the residents, were never a priority,” Nzau said. Residents of Bahati said while they do not oppose redevelopment of their estate, they demand transparency and involvement. “It is interesting that the other day we saw some Chinese surveying our homes. NMS wants to allocate them our estate before the new county government comes into office. They should stop now and wait for the new Governor to deal with this,” said a spokesman Peter Njoroge. On his side, Senator Sakaja assured residents that he will put them first in any plans that affect their homes. “This is a matter of life and death. The old people who have lived here for years will die of shock if they are removed from their homes. You are not tenants; you are home owners and we shall work with you as partners,” he added. The Gubernatorial hopeful argued that  with three weeks to the elections, NMS should be preparing to hand over the functions that were transferred to them, instead of signing contracts that will bind the county government for many years to come. The meeting was also attended by Sakaja’s running mate Njoroge Muchiri, UDA Woman Representative candidate Millicent Omanga and Makadara constituency UDA candidate Anthony Waithaka.