The Kenya Kwanza brigade has gone all out guns blazing against President Uhuru Kenyatta telling him to stop intimidating them. In a curt statement similar to one issued by DP William Ruto, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula told the head of State to tone down on his attacks against the DP and retire peacefully. "Nimekusikia juzi ukisema ati watu watajua wewe ni rais (I heard you recently saying we shall know you are the president) Do you know you have only nine days to go home," Wetangula said. "Siku tisa imebaki my friend for you to go home, unatisha nani? (You have just nine days to go home. Who are you threatening?)" he added. Wetangula spoke during a Kenya Kwanza rally in Busia town on Friday. His remarks came just hours after Ruto went hum on the President while addressing a rally in Kapsabet town. In a highly charged tone, the DP told Uhuru to stop reminding them that he was the President and instead be thankful for the support he gave him and leave office in peace. "Be a decent human being. Kuwa na shukrani, sisi ndio tulikusaidia. Wacha kijifanya saa hizi ati sijui unajifanya nini...please. Wewe sasa unaanza kuthreaten mimi ati utanifanya nini!" Ruto said. (Be thankful, we are the ones who helped you. So now you are chest thumping and threatening me) The DP said despite all the president has done to him, he will ensure he retires peacefully if he wins the August polls. "I'm a gentleman, I'm a christian. I will ensure you retire peacefully and continue with your life peacefully and leave the country for me to take it forward." Wetangula echoed Ruto's remarks saying Uhuru doesn't need to re-introduce himself since everyone knows who he is. "Nani hajui wewe ni rais wa Kenya kwa miaka tisa iliyopita?" he posed. The Ford Kenya boss said Kenyans are past being intimidated into voting for leaders imposed on them saying time is nigh for Uhuru to accept that his reign is over. "Wewe jipange polepole, wachana na IEBC ifanye kazi yake tarehe tisa ufunge virago uende Gatundu tukipeleka mzee wa kitendawili Bondo." (Start preparing yourself, let IEBC to its work come August 9, pack and leave for Gatundu as we send the old man in Bondo) "We are not going to allow an outgoing president to determine and meddle in the elections of this country," he added. Public outbursts between Uhuru and Ruto have gotten way too personal in recent days with the former political soulmates leaving little to imagination about their distaste towards each other. Uhuru recently termed the DP as a liar who is bent on manipulating voters with falsehoods in his quest to ascend to power. The two fell out after the March 8, 2019 handshake between Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Their differences, however, deepened when the former endorsed Raila as his successor, a move that seemingly angered Ruto. The DP and his allies have consistently accused the President of betraying the second in command by going against their pre 2013 gentleman's pact that Uhuru would support Ruto after his two terms. Ruto said on Friday he has accepted the 'betrayal' and called on the President to campaign for Raila but leave his name out of his speeches and never attempt to harm his children. "We are the ones who voted for you for the presidency, and now you want to threaten me? As long as you do not harm my children, we should respect each other," Ruto said. He spoke during a Kenya Kwanza rally in Kapsabet town.