Wajir governor hopeful Mohamed Elmi has pledged to sponsor 1,000 teachers through university or college to find a permanent solution to the education sector in the region. The former Environment CAS said there was a problem in the education sector which requires both short and long-term solutions. Elmi who is vying on an independent ticket said the teacher shortage issue has been discussed for long and it was time a solution was found. He spoke during a rally in Mansa, Tarbaj. Elmi was accompanied by his running mate candidate Hassan Wardere and Senate candidate  Abdirahman Adhan “This calls for urgent and permanent solutions from the national and county governments. That is why I have committed myself to ensure that my administration offers solutions to this problem,”  he said. “For the short-term solutions, we will sponsor 1,000 qualified students, pay their school fees and commit them to be posted in Wajir. For the long term, we will plan to open a Teachers Training College in Wajir to maintain the steady supply of teachers.” He promised to build more ECD classes and hire more teachers saying that having a strong foundation for the learners was important. Elmi said that teachers play an important role in the growth of children by nurturing and moulding them for a better future hence the need to increase their numbers. “My administration will pump in a substantial amount of funds to improve on the infrastructure and equip these institutions. We will address the plight of teachers, stabilise early learning and set a strong base for our children's education,” he said. He called on the state to fast-track the release of bursaries and provide food to underprivileged children in Northern Kenya. “The government should move with speed and release the capitation funds, failure to which running of the schools would be impossible. The current situation is not made any better with the prevailing drought,”  Elmi said. He said that the majority of parents depend on the livestock trade to raise school fees. This has, however, been a challenge due to the ongoing drought. Elmi also drummed up support for Raila Odinga saying he was better placed to tackle the many challenges facing the region urging the electorates to turn up in large numbers and vote for him. During last month's visit to the region, Raila promised to push for a special Affirmative Action Programme in admitting students from ASAL regions into Teacher Training Institutions and universities. This will create a local and committed workforce to serve as teachers and education officers in the region. He promised to build and equip modern low-cost boarding schools in ASAL areas, upscale the School Feeding Programme to maximise student retention and strengthen the formal school system and the mobile school initiatives among pastoralists.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris