Chiefs have been warned against engaging in political activities during this electioneering period. Lower Eastern regional commissioner Evans Achoki said no National Government Administration Officer (NGAO) officials should engage in politics under whatever circumstances. "We do not allow NGAO officials to engage in any political activities. Those found engaging in such activities will face disciplinary action alongside legal sanctions, " Achoki said. Achoki addressed the press after holding a security meeting with chiefs, and assistant County commissioners, all from Machakos County at Machakos School on Tuesday. Both Regional and Machakos County Security Committee led by area County Commissioner Rhoda Onyancha also attended the meeting. Achoki said the meeting was intended to discuss elections preparedness ahead of the August 9 polls. "We earlier had a meeting with the County security intelligence team to look into elections preparedness. I had the opportunity to later meet with all chiefs, assistant County commissioners and deputy county commissioners from Machakos County and discussed performance improvement as NGAO fraternity, " Achoki said. "Service delivery to citizens. Huduma bora ni haki ya mwananchi," he said. Achoki said they discussed several strategies on how the administrators can improve their performances for the citizens' best interests. "We are going to step up war on illicit brew, second-generation liquor and slot gambling machines, " he said. Achoki said as NGAO, they were committed to working with security agencies to ensure peace and enhanced security before, during and after the elections. "We have witnessed the promotion of one chief from senior to the principal chief. We encourage chiefs to work hard for promotions," Achoki said. The administrator warned politicians against inciting their supporters to violence. "We will deal firmly with any incitements from politicians. Politicians shouldn't incite their supporters. They should instead conduct their campaigns peacefully and follow schedules of their meetings and venues as they submitted to the IEBC," Achoki said. Achoki said all political campaigns should end at 6.00 pm. "Don't conduct campaigns or political meetings at night," Achoki said.