German Andreas Spier has parted ways with record Kenyan champions Gor Mahia, the club has confirmed. The former Football Kenya Federation (FKF) technical director, who took the reins from Briton Mark Harrison last February, guided the record champions to a fourth-place finish this season. Harrison was sacked alongside his assistant Sammy 'Pamzo' Omolo and goalkeeper trainer Jerim Onyango. K'Ogalo brought the development of Spiers' departure to public light in a statement released on Tuesday. "We can confirm that we have mutually parted ways with head coach Andreas Spiers. His contract ended and we are now in the market for a new coach. We wish him well," Gor wrote on their social media pages. Meanwhile, former Kakamega Homeboyz tactician Benard Mwalala has refuted claims he was fired by the club. On Monday, the club's chairman Cleophas Shimanyula said he had axed the entire technical bench. However, Mwalala whose contract expires in August insists he parted ways with the club on mutual consent. Shimanyula sent the team's technical bench packing, citing disciplinary issues. Goalkeeping coach David Juma, who survived the axe, will now be in charge of the team on an interim basis pending the appointment of a new coach. Trouble started at the club after they failed to clinch the top-flight title despite having taken command of the proceedings for the better part of the season. “Shimanyula might have been quoted out of context by a section of the media. I was not fired. I left Homeboyz on terms that I cannot lay bare in public for professional reasons," Mwalala said. “I want to thank the management for entrusting me with the team last season. I'm also grateful to the players who cooperated throughout the season. We couldn't have achieved much without their determination and resilient nature. “Let me also appreciate our loyal fans for their undying love for the team. I urge them to keep up their enthusiasm. They shouldn't give up because there is always the next time,” he said. Mwalala holds on to the conviction he will be lucky to lay claim to his maiden top-flight title in his next bid.“Of course, we almost clinched the title but, perhaps, it wasn't just meant to be this time around. I believe my time will come in the near future." Mwalala said he would reveal his next move in the weeks to come, adding that he preferred taking a break as he pondered over his future.