Police officers on leave have been ordered to report to their work stations by Monday to prepare for the election. Those planning to go on leave had their leaves cancelled to allow adequate planning and deployment for the August polls. Deputy Inspector General of Kenya police Edward Mbugua directed that those on leave return to work by July 4. “Due to the forthcoming general election, no officer should be granted leave with effect from July 1, 2022, unless on medical grounds and with doctors’ recommendation. All those officers on leave to be recalled and to be on duty by July 4, 2022,” he said in a memo. The same applies to all other services. The service is set to gazette dozens of other personnel from Kenya Prisons, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service and National Youth Service as special officers to boost security before, during and after the polls. The service has been conducting drills in preparation for the polls. A number of officers have been trained in various fields for effective handling of security challenges arising during elections. A manual outlining guidelines for police commanders during the upcoming polls was launched in February. The manual states the principles of impartiality, equal treatment, accountability and rule of law by security agents and provides procedures for maintenance of public order during the election process and channels for use in lodging complaints against election security personnel. It details the avenues for reporting election offences and is aimed at complementing the work of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission in ensuring free and fair polls. Interior CS has said they are ready to help the IEBC deliver the polls. Police say they have developed an elaborate security and intelligence strategy to ensure the elections are peaceful. Some form of violence has accompanied almost every election in Kenya’s history, a pattern authorities want to end. Areas deemed to be flashpoints for violence have been mapped and police will be ready to avert a repeat of 2007-08. After the presidential result of the 2007 general election was disputed, violence erupted, leading to the death of more than 1,000 people. Many others were displaced. An inquiry into the post-election violence pointed to the police as being ill-prepared, partisan and heavy-handed in trying to quell the chaos.