The government has urged activists to intensify efforts against gender-based violence ahead of next month's polls. Migori county commissioner Meru Mwangi said around election time there is fear of sexual and gender-based violence and urged stakeholders to be alert. “We want to assure stakeholders who raised fear of breakdown of law and order that may weigh down on gains on gender rights that the government will not only ensure the election is peaceful, but that gender rights will be safeguarded,” Mwangi said. Gender desks at police stations are working full-time. “We will work closely with gender stakeholders to tackle gender cases as they arise and I want to assure that police will not only provide security in election, but also be keen on safeguarding rights,” Mwangi said. He spoke in Migori town on Thursday when he chaired a gender sector technical working group, which brought together civic organisations, education and health sector stakeholders. The meeting, which was organised by Amref Health Africa and CHERB, reviewed progress on responses to gender-based violence and gaps that remain ahead of next polls. Activists said, with the elections, they were afraid politicians especially from communities performing female genital mutilation will not discuss the matter for fear of losing votes. “As Kenyans we should not be selfish especially during this election time. We will continue to fight FGM and we will build synergies to maximise results as Kenya was set to eradicate the vice by this year,” Mwangi said. Charles Olwamba, a program officer at Amref Health Africa, said by working closely they will ensure gains against FGM and SGBV fight are not watered down by the polls. On January 18, the the International Federation for Human Rights and the Kenya Human Rights Commission released a report that warned sexual and gender-based violence crimes could be committed during next month's polls. The report urged government to take urgent and concrete measures. In the last election, a KHRC study reported that 201 cases of sexual violence were documented. Olwamba said activists will work closely with gender desks in all police stations and posts in Migori to ensure cases are reported and followed up.