Former MP Kabando wa Kabando has said that Deputy President William Ruto lied, in claiming that Raila and Karua took him to the International Criminal Court. Speaking on Monday, Kabando said the deputy president was lying to Kenyans, and engaging in the politics of deceit. He insisted that it was Ruto and his allies who supported that the 2007-2008 post election case to be taken to the International Criminal Court. "For William Ruto to claim that Martha Karua and Raila Odinga took him to the Hague he is lying to Kenyans. He is engaging in politics of opportunism and deceit because in parliament, Ruto and his brigade who later turned to URP supported moving to the Hague," Kabando said on K24. "To claim in July 2022, three weeks to elections that Raila Odinga the Azimio presidential candidate and madam Martha Karua the running mate took him to Hague, he is trying to manipulate the psychology of the people and I want to tell Ruto on TV, shame on you." Kabando who is seeking the Nyeri senate seat under the Narc Kenya party, which is led by Azimio la Umoja running mate Martha Karua said the DP should stop evoking emotions like it was the case in 2013, when they first ran for office. According to him, the emotions saw them get sympathy votes from voters in the Rift Valley region and the Mt Kenya region. "We felt that ICC had made many mistakes in terms of the investigations done here and appeared to be a political weapon," he noted. Kabando's remarks came after DP Ruto in one of his campaign stopovers in Kiambu said that it was Raila and Karua who took him and President Uhuru Kenyatta to the Hague based court. "Isn't Mr Kitendawili (Raila) and Martha Karua who said we be taken to the Hague?" he posed. In 2010, Ruto alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta were handed over to the ICC for trial over crimes against humanity following the country's post-election violence. Raila was then the country's Prime Minister serving under the grand coalition government formed after the 2007/08 violence while Karua was the Justice Minister. In 2014, however, charges against Uhuru were dropped. Ruto's case collapsed in February 2016, after the ICC barred the use of recanted testimony.