Kenyan marathoner Michael Githae concedes he is quaking in the boots ahead of the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games that begin on July 29. Speaking moments before boarding a plane to the United Kingdom on Sunday, Githae tipped Kenya to shine, saying a lot had gone into preparing the team. “The nerves are kicking in but my team and I have trained hard and we can’t wait to go and defend our flag,” Githae was quoted saying by the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK). The eight-member marathon team was unveiled in Eldoret by Athletics Kenya Senior Vice-President Paul Mutwii on May 21. Amsterdam Marathon champion Jonathan Korir headlines the men's team that also boasts Philemon Kacheran, and Eric Kiptanui. Githae will be the reserve. Korir has a personal best of 2 hours, 5 minutes, and 32 seconds recorded in Amsterdam. The star-studded women’s squad includes reigning Rotterdam champion Stella Barsosio, the 2020 Los Angeles Marathon, and the 2019 Honolulu Marathon champion, Margaret Wangari and Purity Changwony. Maurine Chepkemoi made the team's reserve. The team will seek to exorcise the ghosts that denied the country glory at the 2018 Gold Coast Games, where Kenyan marathoners failed to make the podium. The script read the same at the just concluded World Athletics Championships in the USA. In Eugene, two-time New York Marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor fizzled out into a disappointing fifth as Team Kenya failed to make the podium in the men's marathon at Oregon22 in Eugene on July 17. After holding off a stiff challenge earlier in the race, Kamworor ran out of steam and faded badly in the last five kilometres to finish a distant fifth in 2:07:15, behind Ethiopia's Tamirat Tola who registered 2:05:36 on his way to the landmark victory. Tola won the men's marathon at the world championships in dominant fashion, forging clear around 34km and coming home solo to take gold in a championship record two hours, 05.37 minutes. Tola led compatriot Mosinet Geremew who bagged silver in 2:06:45 with Belgium's Bashir Abdi settling for bronze in 2:06:49. Tola's stunning time – a World Championship best –surpassed the prior record of 2:06:54 set by Kenyan Abel Kirui in 2009. Team Kenya was dealt a major blow after Lawrence Cherono was provisionally suspended for an anti-doping rule violation. Cherono, 33, had been listed to represent the country in the marathon race. However, all his hopes and dreams have been shattered after investigations conducted by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) unearthed the presence of Trimetazidine in his sample.  Team Kenya Marathon Men: Philemon Kieran Jonathan Korir Eric Kiptanui Reserve: Michael Githae Women: Purity Changwony Margaret Wangari Stella Barsosio Reserve: Maurine Chepkemoi 