With less than two weeks left before Kenyans go into the general elections, the National council of churches (NCCK) has called on the IEBC to win the trust of the people by putting in place a credible electoral system and process. While speaking in a Kakamega hotel during a consultative meeting with all the stakeholders, the NCCK Kakamega County chairman Reverend Benson Shisia reiterated that the IEBC has a mandate to deliver free, fair and transparent elections to Kenyans. “We, therefore, ask all IEBC officers right from the Commission’s chairman Mr Wafula Chebukati to the contracted officers to exercise this duty with seriousness and commitment to the oath of office,” Shisia said in a statement. He added that it was a sacred duty that the commission owed to over 50 million plus Kenyans and to God. The clergy also asked all the political candidates to respect the will of the people by accepting the outcome of the elections on August 9, saying this will demonstrate maturity and respect to the people of Kenya. “In case of disputes on the electoral outcome, we urge the complainants to seek judicial mechanism of dispute resolution as set out in the law." "They should also know that in every contested election there must be a winner and a loser thus prepare for any of the two positions.” The clergy said and further urged the candidates to make public commitments to maintain peace, respect the rule of law, and avoid incitement and use of foul language and hate speech. The cleric asked the youth not to accept to be used by politicians to perpetrate violence. They urged the security agencies to maintain law and order and deal firmly with offenders without fear or favour in a timely and humane manner while protecting those exercising their constitutional rights. The religious leaders however called on Kenyans to come out and exercise their constitutional right of choosing their leaders on the 9th of August. “We implore every registered voter to cast their vote peacefully go home and maintain peace throughout the electoral process," Shisia said. "We also ask the spiritual leaders of the religion and denomination to provide spiritual guidance to all their members to remain impartial, non-partisan and pray for the peaceful elective process.” They asked all Kenyans to maintain peace, embrace their neighbours and remember that Kenya is larger than any other of us.