Agano Party presidential candidate Waihiga Mwaure has said that his competitors have nothing new to offer the people of Kenya. Speaking on Tuesday during the Presidential debate, Mwaure insisted that his opponents have been in government and could have done what they are currently promising. "They have been there before. One of them has been deputy president and still is deputy president of this republic, he is in government. The things he is saying he can do, he could have done the last 10 years," he said. "The other one is a former prime Minister, co-president. The things he is promising are things he could have done. He's been in this race for the last 40 years." The Agano party leader said added that George Wajackoyah who is vying for the presidency on a Roots Party ticket has also been in government. Mwaure noted that he still believes Wajackoyah is part of government. "The other has been in government also. He's been with the police force. He's been with the intelligentsia and even now I believe he is still in there," he said. Mwaure who is a lawyer by profession and a pastor said he is different from the other aspirants and will bring the much needed change in the country. "I am saying I'm different from them... The promises they are giving you are promises that they have given before. We had them in 2017, we had them in 2013, we had them in 1997 and 2007 and the question that we must be asking is, what is the difference now?" Mwaure was supposed to debate alongside Wajackoyah who missed the debate. The Roots party candidate was first to arrive at the Catholic University of East Africa main campus where the debate is being held, but left demanding that he could only debate if all presidential candidates shared a platform. Asked about the same, Mwaure said he was disappointed that Wajackoyah snubbed the debate. "... I can't understand why he came all the way here to say he will not participate." The 2022 presidential debate is being held in two tiers, one for candidates who scored less than 5 per cent in the last three opinion polls and the other for the top two contenders.