A sister-in-law to Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga was on Tuesday endorsed to become the MCA of the village (Opoda Farm) where the political family hails from. Turphosa Osewe alias Tabu Osewe, wife to the late Osewe Odinga, now stands a better chance of winning the West Sakwa MCA seat after Raila negotiated on her behalf. The first and second MCAs of West Sakwa agreed to back her up and crusade for the ODM six-piece narrative despite having been disgruntled in the past. The ODM nomination exercise of April 13 saw the first MCA (2013-2017) John Ombewa declared winner but behind-the-curtains deliberations would later give Tabu the ODM certificate. Speaking at Masita dispensary, Ombewa said that he, for the first time in his life, received a phone call from Raila pleading with him to support Tabu. “He told me that things (nominations) did go well but time is over now. Raila asked me to ignore and he will see where to place me,” Ombewa said. He added, “I, Ombewa, has agreed to Raila’s request.” Former chief and the 2nd MCA of the area Maurice Aringo also agreed to support Tabu and campaign for ODM. Both Ombewa and Aringo held Tabu’s hand in the presence of ODM national chairman John Mbadi, who hailed them for such a selfless decision. “These three have done a wonderful thing. The feedback I am taking to Raila is that Ombewa and Aringo have agreed with the order that he gave them on phone,” Mbadi said. James Orengo, who was at the function to campaign for his gubernatorial bid, asked the trio to deliver West Sakwa to the ODM party. Tabu will now meet on the ballot Philip Odero and Benard Adera, who has been cleared by the IEBC to run. Her endorsement and political manoeuvres have not gone down well with everybody. A section of the residents of Siaya county felt that many members of the family of the first Vice President of Kenya Jaramogi Oginga are being pushed down their throats. “Now that Raila is going to become the president, his family members led by Oburu should not be running for any seat. They are embarrassing Raila and portraying the family as greedy,” Siaya senate aspirant James Wamban told the Star. Raila is vying to become president, his elder brother Oburu Oginga wants to be the Senator of Siaya county, and his younger sister Ruth Odinga is the Woman Representative of Kisumu County. Oburu’s children Jaoko Oburu and Elijah Oburu and Raila’s children Winnie Odinga and Rosemary Odinga are all in politics. Omondi Odinga, Raila’s step-brother, had also vied for an MCA seat in Kisumu county.