Egypt have been crowned the Africa Cadet Judo champions after edging hard-battling Angola to the title at the Moi Stadium Kasarani indoor arena on Friday. Angola subsequently settled for silver as South Africa and Cameroon both bagged bronze after beating Burundi and Kenya respectively. Africa Judo Union President Thierry Siteny hailed the Kenyan government for agreeing to host the event that began on Thursday. Thierry made the remarks during the official opening of the event at the Moi Stadium Kasarani indoor arena on Friday. “I'm happy to be here in Nairobi. We are grateful to the Kenyan government for hosting this event,” said Siteny. “We are confident that the federation will deliver a successful event. Kenya has given birth to great judokas who continue to inspire the continent.” “Our youths need to be inspired by role models. The future is the door and the past is the key.” Siteny extolled the concerted efforts between the National Olympics Committee of Kenya and the AJU geared toward mobilising resources for the continental showpiece. “We are delighted to note the resources that have been mobilized to keep the participants in the best condition. I wish to thank the National Olympics Committee of Kenya and the Africa Judo Union for their great support.” Kenya Judo Association chairman Shadrack Maluki took the opportunity to welcome the participants to the country, urging them to take time to visit Kenya's beautiful sceneries. “It's a big honour as a federation to welcome you to Kenya, feel at home. On behalf of the Government of Kenya, I take this great opportunity to welcome you to the country,” said Maluki “I wish to thank the Africa Judo Union for honouring the country with this event. I also want to thank the president of the International Judo Federation for all the support they have accorded Kenya.” “Once you finish the championship just know this is a scenic country so find time to tour the sceneries.” On Thursday, Kenyan David Baya was the toast of the East African nation, settling for a silver medal after falling to Egyptian Ramadan M in the -55kg individual final. Abdulrahman Gobwe clinched bronze in the -50kg category with Martha Dama achieving a similar feat in the -52 category. The Africa Junior Championships begin on Saturday with 112 judokas from 16 countries expected to flex muscles.