The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has seized 13 title deeds with an estimated value of over Sh100 million suspected to be proceeds of corruption. The titles allegedly belonged to Esther Wanjiru Chege, an accountant, at the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA), Kajiado County Office. According to EACC, the seized properties are scattered in various towns including, Kiambu, Nyandarua, Naivasha, Makueni and Kajiado. Chege is under investigation for alleged conflict of interest, embezzlement of public funds and unexplained wealth. On Tuesday, EACC also obtained orders from the High Court in Machakos, to freeze Chege's bank account pending the finalization of investigations. "That an order to freeze for six months account in the name Esther Wanjiru Chege, held at Equity Bank, Ridgeways Branch be and is hereby granted pending further investigations and or orders," the Court said. The anti-graft body obtained the orders after suspecting that the account was being used as a channel for depositing and transferring proceeds of corruption at KeRRA. "Between January 2016- May 2022, Wanjiru transacted a total credit of Sh26,359,921 and her salary account at Equity Bank, Ridgeways Branch, Kiambu, has a balance of Sh3,295,271 which EACC fears could be withdrawn and/or transferred, " the Commission said. It added that her net monthly salary is Sh116,640. EACC further established that Chege is linked to several private companies which have dealings with KeRRA. "The companies are registered through proxies and relatives." EACC said they include M/s Rokays Enterprise Limited allegedly registered by her partner, the Director of St. Sharon Secondary School in Nyandarua. The company allegedly received over Sh5 Million from KeRRA. EACC also found a M/s Reswan Enterprises Limited registered under James Chege Njoroge, brother to Chege. Reswan has received about Sh20 Million from KeRRA. "Apart from the two, other companies operated by Esther Wanjiru Chege as a signatory to bank accounts of said companies that have traded with her employer and received payments from KeRRA," the EAcc said. It listed them as Kaydtech Enterprises Limited, Reswan Holdings Limited, Resro Holdings Limited. The Commission added that Chege and her partner have been transferring funds to their personal accounts from the bank account registered to St. Sharon school.