Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition presidential running mate Martha Karua has dismissed reports that their government will be an extension of Jubilee's term in power. Speaking on Wednesday, Karua said each administration has its unique style of leadership that is governed by its manifesto and plans. She added that leaders too possess different mannerisms and behaviour and thus can not offer similar leadership as that of their predecessors. She made it clear that Jubilee was part of the affiliate parties that have formed the Azimio coalition but will not influence the Raila-Karua administration. She cited the current Jubilee administration under President Uhuru Kenyatta and the grand coalition government in which Kenyatta served as the deputy Prime minister. "Despite the president having served as a state official in previous regimes, his administration is unique and does not resemble those that he served in the previous years." "In the Azimio coalition, Raila and I have made our pledges which will be implemented by our administration and not Jubilee. Raila and I are the captains of our ship," she said. Her remarks come as their political nemesis frequently accused President Kenyatta of allegedly planning to extend his presidential term. The Kenya Kwanza coalition brigade has been vocal in terming Raila-Karua's candidacy as a state project whose campaigns are sponsored by the state. Speaking In Kerugoya, Kirinyaga county Karua noted that theirs will be trustworthy and mindful of the mwananchi. "Raila and I have over the years played key roles in championing for your rights. We promise not to let you down as your president and deputy president respectfully. We pledge to make Kenya a better country, expand opportunities for our children and see to it that our public facilities offer efficient services because we are dedicated to wiping away corruption." The Narc-Kenya party leader defended her integrity saying she is a corrupt-free individual and has never been sued for any graft case. She added that those who implicate her with the alleged B.A.T graft case are simply hawking a false narrative. The money in question she claimed was not public funds but instead was a donation to finance her 2013 presidential bid. In addition, she added that she had resigned from the then government at the time of the alleged occurrence and the money did not land in her hands. "The file to this case was closed as investigations were complete. The highly competent UK authorities probed the case and in no way did it implicate me to having received any bribe." She claimed that her competitors are malicious and hell-bent on using frivolous cases in a bid to tarnish her reputation. Karua took a swipe at Kirinyaga governor Ann Waiguru for claiming that she is one of the illegal beneficiaries of the contentious South Ngariama grabbed land. She dared Waiguru to provide evidence by use of a title that she indeed possesses ownership of any of the parcels of the 17,000-acre disputed land. "If I indeed own a piece of land in south Ngariama, you would simply publicize the title deed to the alleged land as opposed to making careless remarks." "Second, if I own the land as the county governor she would be at the forefront in using her position to reclaim it." On her social media post, Waiguru on Tuesday blamed Karua's family for being one of the beneficiaries of the Ill-fated land, a situation she claims has largely frustrated the titling process. 'Martha is evasive on this debate including on south Ngariama land. She knows we can provide evidence of her family benefitting from South Ngariama while she was a cabinet minister. "That is why they will not allow us to complete titling the land," the post read. Karua who also hails from the county called on the residents to elect accountable and responsible leaders who will serve them with dedication void of pride and self-gratification. She also called out county assembly majority leader Kamau Murango for compromising her stance and resorting to supporting Waiguru's second term despite having been in the lead to impeach her "Any leader who has questionable integrity is not worth holding any public office.I, therefore, plead with you to vote such leader out."