More than 200 traders in Lamu Island can now breathe a sigh of relief following the commissioning of the Lamu municipal market renovated for Sh43 million. The market, which is a joint project by the World Bank in collaboration with Lamu county, was officially opened by Governor Fahim Twaha on Sunday. The market has been undergoing rehabilitation for the last four years. The construction and expansion of the facility began in September 2019 and was to be ready by June 2020 but delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing traders during the launch, the governor said the market has more stalls and storage facilities including coolants for highly perishable products. Twaha said the market was built in a user-friendly manner to accommodate persons with disabilities. “It is my great belief that this market will bolster trade and generally support small-scale enterprises in this place. Our traders will now sell their wares in a conducive environment,” he said. The governor thanked the World Bank for what he termed as a timely delivery of the project and reiterated that his administration would continue to engage in projects that improve the lives of the residents. Lamu Trade executive Dismas Mwasambu said new facility is the first one-stop market in the region where users can get all products and services under the same roof. Mwasambu expressed confidence that the market will create a market for farmers’ produce and promote trading activities in the county while boosting the devolved government’s revenue base. “Besides contributing to our local economy, the market will eradicate poverty by giving farmers and traders a ready market for their produce,” the Trade executive said. Lamu Municipal Market Traders Association secretary Geoffrey Maloba said the market is timely as it will save them from years of suffering when many would lose their stocks due to bad weather and poor storage. “The temporary market where we had been relocated was inconveniencing as we would have to close shop every time it rained," he said. "The sanitation was poor, not to mention that the place was overcrowded. There were no toilets and it was stressful for us but we are glad the new market has put all that into consideration.”  (edited by Amol Awuor)