Setpiece, skill level and ball handling will be key for Kenya as they take on Uganda in the opening match of the Rugby Sevens at the  Commonwealth Games starting on Friday in Birmingham. Skipper Nelson Oyoo said there will be no margin of error against their neigbours and rivals in the opening match. “It's a big game for the two countries because whoever wins has a good chance of progression to the quarters. There is a lot at stake and we are prepared for the challenge,” said Oyoo. The Nakuru RFC veteran said the three areas hurt them when they played Uganda in the Africa Cup Sevens' semis,  where they lost 22-12. “Our skill level and execution were poor on that day. We had several unforced errors and our ball handling was poor. I must admit that coach Damian McGrath and strength and conditioning coach Geoffrey Kimani have worked on this in the past month and we are ready for the matches,” he said. Oyoo said star players Phillip Wokorach, Adrian Kasito and Aaron Ofoywroth will be the key actors for Uganda. "They are a good team, very well coached and capable of springing surprises. We have reviewed our last performance against them and we know what to expect from them,” he added. The skipper said the team is fitter and stronger and will be smarter tactically at the Club Games. “Our fitness has been poor during the World Sevens Series but we are better as far as the skill level is concerned. We are looking forward to the challenge," he added. Kenya are in Pool 'D' alongside Jamaica and powerhouses Australia and the top two teams in each pool will qualify for the quarterfinals. Shujaa had their first training session on Tuesday in England's second-largest city as the squad familiarized themselves with the weather and conditions for the three-day rugby extravaganza. Elsewhere, Dubai will host the repechage qualifier in November for the final slot for the Rugby World Cup slated for next year in France. Kenya Simbas will face favourites USA, Portugal and Hong Kong between November 6-18 in the Sevens Stadium with the winner slotting in Pool C alongside two-time champions Australia, Fiji , Wales and Georgia.