After losing their opening match by 46 runs to Obuya Academy, defending champions Stray Lions aim to bounce back strongly when they play Nairobi Gymkhana in a Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Super League match at Gymkhana on Sunday. Stray Lions batters failed to impress at Peponi School when only four players scored double figures after having let the Obuya brothers, Collins and Kennedy, share a 100-run stand for the fifth wicket. Krishna Katukala, one of the players who failed with the bat with a duck, said the batters should come up and produce results. “It wasn’t the result that we would have wished for. We didn’t field well and as batsmen, we let ourselves down. We have left that defeat behind but recognized the shortcomings of their batting,” Katukala said. “If you analyse the match, you will realise we get out without playing long innings so we have spoken about that and we hope to improve.” Stray Lions’ overseas acquisition, Subham Jahdav, was the top scorer with 62. Katukala added it's important his side beat Gymkhana, who lost to Sir Ali Muslim Club last weekend if they are to defend the title. “This is an important match for us and so we should play good cricket. We are aware of how important it is to bounce back as we seek to go on and defend the title,” he said. The hosts will be looking for a good bowling show this time. On Sunday, they let Sir Ali off the hook by allowing them to post a record 213 stand for the sixth wicket, which enabled them to have 280 to chase. Before Sunday’s loss, Gymkhana had beaten Ruaraka Sports Club where Lucas Oluoch scored a crucial 46. Oluoch said he is still confident of a good season despite the loss. “Obviously, we didn’t bowl well against Sir Ali but we still have a belief of bouncing back and staying competitive,” said Oluoch, who is also a key bowling hope for the Forest Road side. “Stray Lions will definitely look to bounce back so it’s for us to stay focused.” At Ruaraka, the hosts will be looking to bounce back from an opening loss to Gymkhana when they welcome Kanbis. Obuya Academy’s good start into the season will come to test when they host Cutchi Leva while Swamibapa will be hosting Sir Ali at Nairobi Jafferys.