Thailand’s Ambassador to Kenya Sasirit Tangulrat, officially launched ‘Thai food week’ at Sarova Stanley Hotel in Nairobi on Friday. The Thai Food Festival will be held from July 15 to July 23, 2022 at Thai Chi Restaurant in Sarova Stanley’s hotel in the capital, and consumers will enjoy reduced food prices during the week. The embassy hopes to introduce Thai food to Kenyans, particularly "Thai street food," according to the Ambassador. “Thai street food is very popular at an international level and among international tourists,” Tangulrat said at the launch. “Thai food is already famous around the world as it tastes so different compared to the foods of other countries,” she underlined, adding it has further medicinal benefits. Tangulrat noted that Thai food is special for people in many different ways, despite this, all the dishes share a rainbow of flavours. “The dishes can be a mixture of sweet, spicy, savoury and bitter. And yet the different flavours all blend harmoniously into a unique taste which is often a pleasant surprise to one’s taste buds,” Tangulrat said. “Thailand has more dishes on the list than any other country,” she added. After the news conference, the embassy held a “Meet the Chef Event” and a Media-launch of the Thai Food Festival. During a short demonstration, chef Poo( phansupha phommee) described how to cook Thai food, along with other Thai chefs. Guests had the opportunity to taste different flavors of Thai cuisine, including Pla Rad Prik (tilapia and sauce), Tod Man Kao Pod (Sweet corn fritters), Som Tam Thai salad (consisting of raw papaya, carrot green beans and nuts) among other dishes. From a watermelon carved into a giant flower ball of red and green to a bouquet derived from carrots, radishes, and an assortment of other vegetables, they transform food into art. Thailand's rich culinary variety has come as a result of this assimilation of many different country's cultures over a long period of time. Thai Chi restaurant is the only restaurant in Nairobi with the “Thai Select” certification. “I hope that after you have experienced the rainbow of flavours in Thai cuisine from the Thai Food Week. Hopefully you feel encouraged to build on this experience through exploring other aspects of Thailand by physically visiting the country which is now fully opening its doors to visitors.”