Serah Kioko was on Monday named as the acting Clerk of the National Assembly, taking over from Michael Sialai who is heading to Windhoek as Kenya’s High Commissioner to Namibia. Sialai handed over the reins to the current Deputy Clerk during a National Assembly Board meeting at Parliament Buildings. The Parliamentary Service Commission appointed Kioko to assume the role effective July 31, which will be the last day of the outgoing clerk’s tour of duty in the National Assembly. With the development, Serah stands to be the clerk who will lead the swearing-in of the new Parliament set to be elected in the next two weeks. Among key tasks include convening the first sitting and election of the speaker - which is normally a challenging task considering the high-level interests that come with the seat. "I thank the PSC for trusting me with the responsibility of serving in the capacity of acting Clerk of the National Assembly. I promise that service to the House and the country will be my earnest endeavour," Serah told the Star. The PSC is expected to hire a new Clerk in the 13th Parliament, having shortlisted four candidates for the post. Serah is among those shortlisted on the list that also has Samuel Josephat Njoroge, Mohamed Ali Mohamed and Eunice Wanjiku Gichangi. Until her appointment, Serah has been overseeing the directorates and departments dealing with matters relating to the procedure and business of the National Assembly. Among her roles have been to develop programmes for training members and staff, marshalling published bills, motions and sessional papers for consideration by the National Assembly. She was also in charge of overseeing the preparation of the National Assembly calendar, a weekly programme of business and the preparation of Order Papers, votes and proceedings. Serah has also been handling chamber duties and providing procedural advice to the Speaker and members of the National Assembly. During her 28-year period of service, she has served in various capacities, including as the pioneer Director for Legislative and Procedural Services in the Senate. She is celebrated for coordinating Senate operations at the onset of devolution as the head of the core Directorate of Legislative and Procedural Services. Serah has also been a Clerk of Committees, a role which involves organising and managing committee meetings and writing minutes, as well as undertaking administrative roles and providing research services. She has served as clerk of the House Business Committee, Powers and Privileges Committee, Public Investments Committee, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, Agriculture Committee and the Liaison Committee, among others. Serah has also served at the Table Office which has jobs including drafting amendments to bills, parliamentary questions, motions, statements and petitions for Members of Parliament and advising on the relevant procedure. Sialai, in his remarks at the ceremony, thanked the board for their support, which he said has seen the National Assembly make great strides in professionalising the parliamentary service. He also hailed the board for helping mainstream the parliamentary service to respond better to members’ needs. “I wish to sincerely thank you for your support during my tenure as a clerk. Together, we have managed to do a lot and I'm happy that we have managed to mainstream our services to respond to the needs of our members and the citizenry in general,” Sialai said. The board said Sialai had left a remarkable legacy at the National Assembly, citing the structure of directorates and departments that were his brainchild. The board said the structures have “created opportunities for upward mobility of staff hence motivating them, and the alignment of skills to match tasks to respond better to the execution of the mandate of the National Assembly.” The team wished the outgoing clerk well in his next assignment but urged him to become an ambassador of the National Assembly of Kenya despite his exit from the institution. Sialai was appointed as a First Clerk Assistant of the National Assembly in 1996 and rose through the ranks to the position of Deputy Clerk. He was appointed as the Clerk of the National Assembly in 2017, a position he held until his nomination for the envoy job. 