A team of researchers from Kibabii University have partnered with a Kenyan-based Norwegian organisation to write joint proposals geared towards food production and value addition in Bungoma county. The team from Kenor Investment Limited visited the university on Monday for a familiarisation tour as well as ratification of a memorandum of understanding signed in March 2022. They were led by country director Richard Lusweti, who is also the project officer, and his Norwegian counterparts Lewi Peter Hansen and Bjoerk Voll Ingebrigt. “Currently, we are working on a joint proposal titled: “Economic Empowerment of Communities in Western Kenya through Promotion of Mushroom Production,” Lusweti said. The researchers are focused on using a multi-stakeholder approach to upscale mushroom production at household, community, and country levels. They said mushroom production can positively impact rural livelihoods through food security, income generation, employment creation and improved human wellness through enhancing the body’s immune system. Farmers are organised into groups, societies and cooperatives, particularly led by women and youth, and linked to prospective markets through digital platforms and technologies. The overall goal is to empower women and youth along the mushroom production value chain. The project is being implemented in four counties of Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Busia and Kakamega. Speaking to KNA, the team from Kibabii University, led by Dr Jonathan Mutonyi, said mushrooms are good for health as they are a low calorie food that packs a nutritional punch. He said mushrooms are a rich source of potassium, a nutrient known to lessen tension in blood vessels, potentially helping to lower blood pressure. Vice chancellor Isaac Ipara Odeo lauded the initiative, saying mushroom cultivation will aid in supporting local, regional and national trade. It will also offer opportunities for processing industries as well as creating employment for youth and other enterprising citizens, he said. Edited by A.N