The High Court has affirmed that President Uhuru Kenyatta violated the Constitution when he failed to appoint six judges as recommended by the Judicial Service Commission. Justices James Wakiaga, George Dulu, and William Musyoka termed the President's action as discriminative. In a Gazette Notice dated June 3, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed 34 of the 41 judges forwarded to him by the JSC in 2019. Those left out were Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Aggrey Muchelule, Weldon Korir, Evans Makori, and Elizabeth Omange. The bench on Monday said the nominees were treated differently from the others and they were not subjected to fair administrative action. The bench made the finding in a case in which a Nakuru-based doctor Benjamin Magare sued the Chief Justice and the Attorney General. Magare sought conservatory orders prohibiting the JSC from assigning duties to the 34 judges pending the hearing and determination of the matter. Also sought was an order declaring illegal, null, and void the President's action of appointing only selected judges and that he be compelled to appoint the remaining six. He asked the court to have them compensated for the damage they suffered as a result of a violation of their rights. Although the three-judge bench said the six were discriminated against, they went ahead to dismiss the petition filed by Magare. The bench said orders made by the court against the JSC would be in vain as there is already a stay order against the implementation of the judgment. “The six nominees have not been appointed to the respective offices to which they have been nominated and as a consequence, no order can be made at this stage,” the bench said. “This court is prohibited from exercising jurisdiction over a case until an active controversy is presented.” Concerning the issue of compensation, the bench said no evidence was adduced by the doctor to prove the alleged suffering. The bench said each of the six ought to testify to prove the damage they have suffered as a result of a violation of their rights. Magare had pleaded on their behalf that they have suffered psychological and other forms of trauma. The court also dismissed a petition filed by Lawyer Adrian Kamotho who was trying to enforce a decision he obtained from the same court. The bench had in October 2021 directed the President to appoint the remaining six judges in 14 days. Once the 14 days lapse without Uhuru having made the appointment which they did,  the Judges held “it shall be presumed that his power to make them has expired and his office becomes powerless so far as the appointments are concerned” Consequently, the six nominees according to the bench shall be considered duly appointed effective from the date of default as Judges of superior courts for which they were recommended. “After their being deemed appointed, the CJ in conjunction with JSC shall be at liberty to take all necessary steps to swear in the six judges,” they said. It was these orders Kamotho sought to enforce in his present matter which was dismissed. “Prayers sought against the Chief Registrar of Judiciary, Controller of Budget and Inspector General of Police are not yet ripe for granting or making as the said parties have not yet been presented with a situation requiring them to act and have declined to do that which is sought against them,” the bench said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris