Barut location of Nakuru Town West Sub-County is reeling in shock after two people were murdered in mysterious circumstances and their bodies dumped on different roads only two kilometres apart. The two, a woman whose head was slit and 48-year-old Geoffrey Bett, are suspected to have been killed on Tuesday night by members of the Nyuki gang, one of the splinter groups of the infamous Confirm gang. Nakuru County Police Commander, Peter Mwanzo said the woman could not be identified and neither could anyone tell her age because the killers went away with the head. He said police were investigating the murders adding that they were following credible leads to unearth the culprits. “I want to assure residents that the police and the relevant security authorities are working round the clock to make Nakuru safe again,” said Mwanzo. The murders come less than two weeks after seven women were raped, and murdered and their bodies set on fire by suspected members of criminal gangs in Mawanga, Ngomongo and Workers areas of Bahati Sub-County. There was a lull in the murders cases after Interior Cabinet Secretary, Fred Matiang’i led a security team including General Service Unit Commandant, David Kanja, Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss, George Kinoti and Inspector General of Police, Hilary Mutyambai toured the affected areas. Matiang’i declared war on the criminal gangs and so far, six people have been arrested in connection with the previous murders. Mwanzo warned that anyone who will be found carrying machetes, pangas, knives or any type of weapon will be treated as a terrorist. He also encouraged residents to share information that would help the authorities end the insecurity that has rocked Nakuru Town East, Nakuru Town West and parts of Bahati, Rongai and Subukia sub-counties. Bett’s father, David Lelei described his son as a calm, widower who was single-handedly bringing up his children through hard work. “It is unfortunate that Bett’s children have been completely orphaned by criminal gangs who have no regard for life,” he said. Residents say that Bett attended a security meeting on Tuesday which was meant two broker peace between two rival youth groups. “Maybe he said something that irked one side of the warring groups. His death is apparently related to the security meeting he chaired during the day,” a resident who sought anonymity said.