County governments have been challenged to produce reports on how they leveraged the Covid 19 pandemic to improve health care facilities and systems. The Senate Health Committee said that besides the usual financial reports on how they utilised the Covid 19 funds, the devolved units should also produce financial reports on how they have been able to transform the sector during the period. “County government, should, in addition to generating financial reports, generate non-financial reports on key milestones achieved in regard to the activities relating to Covid 19 pandemic,” the committee said. The panel chaired by Trans Nzoia senator Michael Mbito said that reports should be made public for public scrutiny. “There should be an integrated financial and non-financial reporting for efficient and effective monitoring,” it states. The committee made the call in a report on its scrutiny of auditor general Nancy Gathungu’s reports on the utilization of Covid 19 funds for 2020-21 by the devolved units. Many governors have said that the pandemic, which overstretched the counties’ health facilities, was a blessing in disguise as it enable the expansion of the facilities and improved health care. Many counties, established ICU and HDU units for the first time. Others acquired hospital beds and constructed new facilities to accommodate a bulging number of patients seeking treatment in the wake of the pandemic. In the state of devolution report released two weeks ago, Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora said that there are currently 23 county referral hospitals, 886 sub-county hospitals, 2,180 health centres and 10,677 dispensaries. In addition, there are 1,278 functional critical care (ICU and HDU) beds across the country. He partly attributed this to Covid 19 pandemic that saw many counties set up the units. “The county governments are now targeting having facilities at a five-kilometre radius moving around,” Wambora said in the report. Currently, 34.3 per cent of counties’ budget goes to health. In the report that was adopted by the House, the senators want counties in collaboration with the national government to do proper sensitization and training of public finance management during crises to ensure prudent use of public funds. The committee established that many counties violated finance and procurement laws during the pandemic, apparently due to the panic brought about by the scourge. “Procurement laws and regulations were not strictly being adhered to by the counties,” the report states. Especially, there were violations of the Public Finance Management Act, Public Procurement and Disposal Act, Public Audit Act, and Government Financial Regulation procedures. “The public finance management capacity of levels II and III health facilities be strengthened so as to ensure efficient and effective planning, budgeting and utilization of funds, especially during pandemics,” the report states. In addition, many counties engaged in procurements without approved budgets, work plans, procurement plans, and training plans. There was also a lack of a proper framework to handle pandemics and the coordination mechanisms between the counties and the national government were generally weak. Many counties also underfunded their frontline health workers during the pandemic. “Appropriate consultations should be held between the levels of governments to ensure accurate disbursement of frontline health workers allowances to mitigate against labour unrest and fiscal risks in the county government,” the report recommends.