The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has said the National Police Service are in possession of the key electronic items belonging to the 3 foreign nationals arrested on Thursday. In a statement by the IEBC Chair Wafula Chebukati on Friday, the commission faulted the state saying the move will affect poll preparation. "The National Police Service has, most importantly, confiscated all electronic items including mobile phones, laptops and flash disks in the custody of the said personnel which electronic items contain important and sensitive information relating to the forthcoming elections as well as projects undertaken by them for other countries. The said personnel were compelled to give passwords to the confiscated phones and gadgets resulting in violations of rights of privacy," Chebuati said in a press release. He called out the National Service for lying that the items seized had been released to them. NPS Spokesperson Bruno Shioso in a statement, earlier in the day, said they had released the three foreign nationals after establishing that they were elections officials. Shioso also stated that the election materials found in possession of a Venezuelan had been handed to the IEBC, a matter Chebukati has denied. The electoral agency boss has claimed the materials have also been confiscated and retained by the OCS Anti-terrorism police unit. The IEBC Chair has also divulged that -the three Venezuelans have been directed by the police to appear before them on July 26 saying the directive consequently affects the performance of their duties. Chebukati said the commission is now troubled by the acts urging the National Police Service to give them the space to discharge their mandate. "The commission is still troubled by the acts of the National Police Service and demands cessation of harassment of personnel of legitimately contracted service providers and calls for the immediate release of the confiscated items." Despite the push and pull, Chebukati has expressed commitment to delivering a credible election.