The massive understaffing at the Witness Protection Agency makes it pay multiple special duty allowances flagged by the Auditor general in the latest report, the agency’s new executive director Jedidah Waruhiu has said. The Auditor general Nancy Gathungu had questioned the payment of Sh2,498,480 as special duty allowances to its various officers for more than six months. It said in the 2020-2021 report that of the Sh339,263,697 it used for its employee cost, Sh108,491,060 related to housing benefits and allowances The report said this contravened the agency’s Human Resource Policy Manual. But the entity’s new boss Waruhiu told the Star that understaffing is a teething problem at the agency and that longstanding effort to get the requisite funding to address it had hit a brick wall. The manual states that “Special Duty Allowance will not be granted for more than six consecutive months”, and that during that period, arrangements should be made to fill the higher post in substantive capacity. According to the report, the “….renewal of extensions for payment of special duty allowance were issued every six months dating back from the year 2017 to 2021”. It also flagged understaffing at the crucial agency in the criminal justice chain, thereby undermining its capacity to meet its mandate. Its human resource manual requires it to have 296 staff members but currently has a paltry 109 staff, creating a gaping hole of 187 staff. She said her predecessor, Alice Ondieki, who left the agency in January, had spearheaded efforts to have sufficient funding from the exchequer in vain. She said the agency has followed up the issue with the National Assembly’s Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs as well as the treasury in vain. “The staffing issue is a result of the austerity measure instituted by the national treasury and this has undermined our ability to hire adequately as indicated in our staff manual,” she told the Star. She explained that the Sh2.4 million special duty allowance questioned is because the few staff available have to be assigned to do multiple tasks and hence the facilitation. “Though confidentiality is our key issue due to the nature of the work we do, we try to be transparent in the public interest. However, there were no other major issues raised in the report.” She said that the entity relies on public funding charged on the consolidated funds and that no do or monetary support has streamed to its coffers. It only partners with the UN office on drugs and crime (UNODC) to get technical support