Kakamega gubernatorial candidate Cleophas Malala has stated that his business and interest in the leadership of Kakamega County is not sharing the government with his running mate Beatrice Inyangala. While speaking during the campaign trail in the Eshiyongo market in Navakholo, on Thursday, Malala implored residents to vote for them as they had the interest of the people at heart. A few days ago, Malala’s main competitors Fernandez Barasa and his running mate Ayub Savula differed publicly concerning sharing of positions once they took over the county government of Kakamega in August. “You have seen my competitors Baraza and Savula have started differing over sharing the government, one of them (Savula) claiming that the agreement between the two of them was to share the government 50-50 something Barasa has publicly opposed," he said. "I want to ask you, people of Kakamega, if they have started the wrangles as early as now before they are even voted in, what will happen in the event that they ascend to power?” Malala posed. Last weekend, while speaking at a funeral in the Malava constituency Savula said he will be co-governor if they win. He said Barasa agreed to share the county government equally. “The county government of Kakamega has 10 departments. Barasa will take five and I will take five. I’m not a deputy governor but a co-governor,” Savula said. Malala said if the duo have shown their differences publicly now, the worst may happen if they are given an opportunity to lead the County. “I can assure you today that if by bad luck they are elected in office as governor and deputy governor, they may impeach one another and they will fight and there will be no development in Kakamega governor.” Malala reiterated He said their main business was not to share the government but rather to deliver the people of Kakamega from the economic constraints and poverty. “Our business is to fix the roads, to empower the youth and the Women economically and to make sure that Kakamega residents have access to good health care. Our priority is to change and transform the lives of our people,” Malala stated. Inyangala said together with Malala, they will form a formidable government that will be all-inclusive that will focus on development rather than sharing positions in the government. “Malala will provide Sh300 Million for Women and the youth to borrow and repay without any interest in order to develop the people of Kakamega economically,” she said 