The Commonwealth has announced the appointment of Botswana’s former President, Festus Mogae, to lead its observer group for Kenya’s upcoming general elections. On Tuesday, a statement from the Commonwealth Secretariat said the 20-person team will be in Kenya for the  August 9 polls at the invitation of the country’s Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. It follows a visit by a Commonwealth pre-election assessment team in April. This will be the second time he chairs the Group, following the March 4, 2013 elections where he led the 17 member team. The Chair and observers have been given the mandate to observe and consider the factors affecting the credibility of the electoral process as a whole and to judge whether elections have been conducted according to the standards for democratic elections to which Kenya has committed itself, including legislation and relevant regional, Commonwealth and international commitments. Where appropriate, the group may also make recommendations for future strengthening of the electoral framework The Commonwealth Observer Group will arrive in Nairobi on August 2, 2022 and will be supported by a team from the Commonwealth Secretariat. “Election observation is an essential component of our efforts to support member countries to strengthen the processes, culture, and institutions of democracy, and to enable citizen participation and representation at all levels," Commonwealth Secretary-General Patricia Scotland said in London. “I am grateful to President Mogae and all observers for accepting this important assignment, as we continue to promote and protect electoral democracy and the right of individuals to participate in processes which shape their societies through credible, inclusive, and transparent elections, in line with the Commonwealth Charter.” Ahead of the group’s arrival, an advance team from the Commonwealth will arrive on July 16 to meet key stakeholders, including the election management body, political parties, civil society groups, media, and other international observers. They will travel across the country to build a comprehensive picture of the conduct of the process and to observe the campaign and the electoral preparations. The Commonwealth Observer Group will arrive in Nairobi on August 2, 2022 and will be supported by a team from the Commonwealth Secretariat, led by Deputy Secretary General, Dr. Arjoon Suddhoo.