Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has disparaged President Uhuru Kenyatta after he accused Deputy President William Ruto of not performing. Kuria questioned the President why he saw the need to launch a manifesto in 2013, yet he was a senior official in the late President Mwai Kibaki's government. "Mbona 2013 ulitoa manifesto ? Kwa nini haukufanya hiyo maneno ukiwa kwa serilkali ya Kibaki ? Tulia boss uone vile nchi inaongozwa . Relax my friend," he said. This is loosely translated to, "Why did you launch a manifesto in 2013? Why did you not act on your plans while in Kibaki's government? Relax boss and see how a country is being led". Kuria added that Uhuru was influential enough during the time, to act. "And by the way, you were an influential Minister in Kibaki's government. Mzee Kibaki gave you the power to recruit ministers like Njeru Githae, Katoo Metito and Eugune Wamalwa," he said. The CCK leader came to Ruto's defence claiming he blocked his deputy from performing. "How did you expect him to perform when you stood in the way of every effort to solve Hustler's problems?" Speaking during the celebrations for the 100th International Co-operatives Day, Uhuru accused the DP of making empty promises yet he had the time to deliver what he is promising Kenyans. "I am saddened to see some people talking out there. Someone has been given a job instead of doing it he is just making empty talks. Then the same person starts saying he will do this and that". Uhuru said the DP had a whole 8 years to implement most of the development pledges he is issuing now but he could not. "Why didn't you do that when you had the opportunity. People should stop such rubbish... This issue of making too much noise here and there should stop. CS Munya here has delivered a lot in the three years he has served. What have those people done for the 8 years?" Following Uhuru's remarks, Ruto urged him to leave the battleground as he is not seeking the presidency. "I have not told Uhuru Kenyatta to support me, let him keep off. I am ready to defeat Raila very early in the morning," he said. Ruto told off the President saying he has not asked him for support adding that he is ready to face Raila head-on and defeat him on August 9. "Please help me tell Uhuru Kenyatta to leave the battlefield for me and Raila. Or what do you think? Should he not leave the battle for me and Raila?"