The Supreme Court will from Monday start reviewing former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's impeachment case. Deputy Registrar Bernard Kasavuli has also given respondents 7 days to file and serve their reply. "There be a mention of this matter before the Deputy Registrar on 25th of July 2022 for further directions," reads the directions. On Monday, Sonko returned to the apex court asking the judges to set aside their own decision three days after the court dismissed the appeal against his impeachment. In his application for review, Sonko wants Chief Justice Martha Koome to recuse herself from the matter on grounds that she had made remarks suggesting that those impeached should not be allowed to run. Sonko is apprehensive that the Chief Justice was prejudiced in her findings. He claims the  Chief Justice during an interview on Spice FM on May 28 pronounced herself in a manner that demonstrated a predetermined mind on the question of impeachment. He also wants the court to set aside its decision on grounds that Justice Said Chitembwe, who was part of the High Court bench that upheld his impeachment, is currently under investigation by a tribunal for misconduct. Sonko says Chitembwe was biased and mischievous in the manner in which he handled his impeachment case. The Supreme Court on Friday last week, dismissed Sonko's appeal thus dealing a big blow to his political career, an impeached person cannot be allowed to run for public office again. It is on the backdrop of these fears that he is seeking a review. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has already revoked his clearance to run for the Mombasa governor seat. At the same time, the former governor has filed an appeal at the East African Court of Justice. He says the decision of the Supreme Court and courts of Kenya was arrived at in an unjust manner. Its effect, he says, is to curtail his political rights and the people he represents. "The decision of the Kenyan judicial arm is tainted with illegality as the decision of the high court as upheld by the Supreme Court was influenced through corrupt means," he said. He wants the EAC court to suspend the execution of the decision by the Supreme Court pending a hearing and determination of his appeal.