Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has said he will accept the results should he lose the August 9 general election fairly. Speaking on Tuesday in Gilgil, Nakuru county, Raila challenged his main challenger DP William Ruto to make a similar pledge. "Should we lose the elections fairly, we will accept the outcome and congratulate the winner and we mean exactly that. We also urge our competitor to do the same, to be prepared to accept results no matter the outcome of this election," Raila said. Raila said the election will be different from the previous elections as its main agenda is to unite Kenyans. "Our national anthem says Justice be our shield and defender and may we dwell in unity, peace and liberty and plenty be found within our borders," Raila said. 'It's that plenty and liberty that we are yet to get," he added. Latest opinion poll by Radio Africa indicate that the two leading presidential candidates are neck and neck in popularity in the race. The poll conducted between July 7  and July 10 had Raila in the lead with 46.2 per cent approval rating against Ruto's 45.3 per cent of those polled. This represents a 1.6 per cent growth for Raila from the previous (44.6%) conducted on June 8 and 9 and a 6.4 per cent growth for Ruto from 38.9 he got in the last poll. During the rally, Raila tore into Ruto's Hustler narrative saying Kenyan youth are beyond the reliance on wheelbarrows for economic sustainability. He said it was ironical that Ruto promised Class one pupils laptops to equip them with digital skills but wants to give them wheelbarrows when they clear school. "He promised morden stadiums in every county, but there has been nothing to that end," Raila said. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed told Ruto to stop dragging President Uhuru Kenyatta into his duel with Raila. "You are walking all over saying Uhuru let me deal with Raila. Uhuru is not on the ballot. If you feel already defeated and you want to go home on August 9, meet Raila at the balllot," Junet said. "And Raila is known, he will defeat you. This is a gone election," he added.