A Kenya Wildlife Service ranger was on Saturday shot dead and another injured in an attack at the Oldonyiro KWS field station in Isiolo county. Three rifles, a pistol and several rounds of ammunition were stolen by the bandits who attacked the quarters. The injured ranger is recuperating at Nanyuki Cottage Hospital and is currently in stable condition, KWS officials said. Police said the bandits broke into the armoury and stole the arms after shooting the officers Reports from the police indicate the criminals fired several rounds before they were repulsed by police officers from Oldonyiro station. They had also attacked the officers in their houses, where they took one of the G3 rifles that was kept under the bed. Police said they have arrested three suspects and recovered one of the stolen firearms. More security was deployed to the area to pursue the suspects behind the attack. County police commander Hassan Barua said they are pursuing more suspects. The area is among those under partial operations to recover firearms from criminals terrorising residents. The government launched an operation in the neighbouring Marsabit county in May, 2022 to tame the trend of gun violence. The attack on the camp is seen as part of efforts by criminals in the area to get more weapons for their illegal activities. Officials said the operation will continue until at least 5,000 of the estimated guns in illegal hands in the county are recovered. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said more than 200 guns, 3,000 ammunitions, a grenade and assorted bayonets have been surrendered/recovered under Operation Rejesha Amani. "We need to recover more guns, we will review this operation when we have around 3,000 or so guns because we believe there are still many more in the wrong hands," he said. The officers conducting the mop-up exercise are drawn from specialised units, including the General Service Unit, the Anti Stock Theft Unit and the Rapid Deployment Unit. (Edited by Tabnacha O)