The Media Council of Kenya has urged journalists and security officials in Tana River to share information as the August 9 general election approaches. MCK Coast region coordinator Maureen Mudi said more town hall forums with the public to educate residents on the role of journalists in elections will be beneficial to the community. Mudi spoke during a training session on election reporting for community members in Tana River on Tuesday. "Educating residents on how journalists should work with the public to ensure the sharing of information is appropriate and it also makes sure the public conveys information to the media,” Mudi said. She said that journalists have a responsibility of making sure they report accurately to save the country from plunging into post-election-related violence. “As MCK, we have been doing several training sessions for journalists as we head towards next month's general election," She said. "There are many issues that concern journalists during the election like their safety, professionalism and how they will report." Mudi further said that they are mapping out areas near tallying centres to set up media hubs, where journalists can do their work without the hassle of running to the offices or studios to file stories. “We are also trying to set up verifications desks which will be mostly virtual," Mudi said. "The desks will ensure that in this age of social media news reporting  and inceased cases of misinformation and disinformation writers can fact check their stories to ensure they are accurate and up-to-date." Ruth Kaseme, Tana River subcounty chairperson for the Maendeleo ya Wanawake lauded the MCK for the town hall forum, saying they are now more informed on how journalists work. On her part, Yasmin Hassan, a youth leader said she had understood the nexus of media and community in promoting peace and cohesion. The media, Hassan said, allows them to participate in debates on radio stations. “This time as we are heading to the polls, I urge the youth not to be misused by politicians to cause chaos,” she said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)