More than 1733 people were screened for eye-related disorders during a free medical camp in Marsabit on Monday. The event was organised by Fred Hollows Foundation, Christoffel Blind Mission, Mission Aviation Fellowship, Ministry of Health and Marsabit county government. The residents received free consultation, medicines and eye drops were given to patients. A total of 220 people with eye problems underwent surgeries to correct cataracts. A team of 10 eye doctors and surgeons were available to render their services at the eye clinic camp. Cataracts, the clouding of the eye lens which blocks out light and eventually causes blindness remain the leading eye problem in the county. Some of the patients were diagnosed with dry eye syndrome, retractive errors, allergic conjunctivitis, glaucoma and trachoma trichiasis. Eye care manager in the Health ministry, Dorcas Chelanga said while most cataracts are associated with aging, brightness or UV exposure they can also be related to trauma, diabetes and lifestyle factors. "Helping people with eye problems is one of the most fulfilling parts of our mission. We are very grateful to help patients recover their vision," Chelanga said. She said the massive turnout at the medical camp demonstrates the need to visit more remote areas of the county. "It is always rewarding to see eye patients able to see again after being blind for many years, we need to organise camps in more villages," she said. Marsabit eye specialist Galgallo Arero said the common cause of blindness is cataracts, which mostly affect older people. Arero said cataract is always linked to poverty, high exposure to dust, vitamin A deficiency, diabetes and hypertension. He said the condition can be aggravated by the use of traditional medicines and eye procedures performed by unskilled people. Arero advised residents to go for regular check-ups to curb the growing visual problem. "Eye problems are on an increase. I encourage people to have regular check-ups as the only solution to eradicate eye problems because this can help solve the problem at an early stage," Arero said. County Referral Hospital CEO Liban Wako also urged residents to go for early cancer screening and treatment. "Let us play a role in reducing the impact of cancer by visiting the cancer centre at the County Referral Hospital," Wako said. Wako said Governor Mohamud Ali-led administration recognised the cancer burden in the county and set up a cancer centre to benefit the people. He revealed that though the number of those checked has gone up, many residents still shied away from screening for fear of knowing their status. He appealed to well-wishers to continue supporting the county in its effort to improve health standards. (Edited by Tabnacha O)