Farmers at the Tana Irrigation Scheme have adopted rice and sunflower farming, raking thousands of shillings from the crops. Irrigation scheme manager James Kirimi said 1,800 acres are under rice. “We had not met our target by mid-June but we are looking to accomplish it before the start of the main season in August,” he said. Komboka variety developed by the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organization is semi-aromatic and has long slender grains and a soft cooking texture. The plant height is 110 – 115 cm and matures in three and a half to four months. Kirimi said the climatic condition in Hola has been very conducive for rice production. “We are building up on the momentum,” he said. “The scheme is currently very active producing rice. Kwamboka variety, farmers have adopted rice farming and it has attracted more farmers from within and outside the county.” The manager attributed the success to the readily available market. Currently, the price has moved from Sh60 to Sh63. “The farmers are not struggling with the market as it used to do with non-contracted crops. Every producer can recover the cost of production and get a good profit,” he said. In line with the government's efforts to cushion Kenyans against the rising cost of living the scheme has partnered with World Concern NGO to grow sunflowers for the production of edible oils. “We have adopted other crops like sunflowers. It’s a contracted crop for the production of oil and it can also be utilised to produce livestock supplements,” Kirimi said. He said the scheme focuses on ensuring the achievement of the Big 4 Agenda of increasing food and nutrition security. “We believe with other partners and stakeholders we can achieve this,” he said. To stabilise the soaring prices of maize flour, 1200 acres in the scheme are under maize with efforts to increase the acres in the August planting season. “We have not abandoned maize crops, we are partnering with several farmers' groups. With the drought situation, they will need to increase maize production as our staple food,” Kirimi said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris