Nairobi gubernatorial candidate on the United Progressive Alliance party ticket Kenneth Nyamwamu says he will deal with corrupt individuals ruthlessly if elected on August 9. Speaking during the Nairobi governor debate, Nyamwamu said he would adopt Roots Party presidential candidate George Wajackoyah's mantra and have corruption suspects hanged. "I agree. In fact, I would like for Wajackoyah to become president so we can hang all of these people because we just dance around this issue and nobody is held accountable," he said. "We have the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and other bodies but still money gets lost. The solution is not to form another body," he added. The UPA candidate said the country cannot expect to fight and end corruption when no one is taking the steps towards the goal. While delivering his manifesto, Wajackoyah said he will reinstate capital punishment for all corrupt leaders, if elected president in the August 9 elections. He believes that reintroducing capital punishment for corruption offenders is the silver bullet for eradicating the country's corruption problem. "Anyone caught or found guilty of stealing public money will be hanged in public. Even corrupt Judges will not be spared by my administration in the fight against corruption,” Wajackoyah stated. Nyamwamu featured in the live debate alongside three other candidates including Independent Esther Waringa, tech-entrepreneur Harman Grewal of Safina Party and Nancy Wambui of Usawa Kwa Wote party. The event started a few minutes past 5:00 pm at the Catholic University in East Africa,  in Karen. The debate was moderated by Serfine Achieng’ Ouma of KBC and K24 TV's Ayub Abdikadir. The televised debate was the first of the two tiers of debates lined up for the night. The second tier debate will be moderated by Zubeida Koome of KTN and NTV's Mark Masai. It will feature governor hopefuls whose popularity ratings, based on three recent opinion polls, stand below 5 per cent.