Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali's bid to retain his seat got a boost after hundreds of his opponents' supporters joined his camp. The defectors led by Butiye youth leader Hussein Galma said more than 100 youth defected to governor Ali's camp on Tuesday. He said their defection was as a result of the governor's track record in his first term and tremendous achievements in the education sector. Galma said the governor introduced a scholarship programme that benefitted hundreds of students from poor backgrounds. He also hailed Ali's administration for equalising the ward development fund across the four constituencies. "We met as youths and discussed the governor's development projects. We came to the conclusion that he deserves to be reelected," Galma said. The youth leader cited the construction of a modern market, roads and improved education and healthcare services as some of governor Ali's achievements. "Governor Ali's development projects speak volumes. They are clear for all to see," he said. Another defector Boru Tari said he decided to defect to Ali's camp after realising that the governor's opponents had no vision for development. "Everybody can see the good work done by the governor, to transform the lives of the people. I cannot follow those who have promises and nothing to show," he said. Tari said he is happy to have joined the winning team. He said he has confidence in the governor's wisdom, leadership approach and respect for his political decision, adding that he is thankful for everything he has done for them. Tari said youth in the constituency have resolved to be loyal to the governor, support and remain committed to him. He said the youths have unanimously endorsed his re-election bid and are working tirelessly towards his victory at the August polls. The defectors also promised to support Senator Godana Hargura and women representative candidate Nasra Ibrahim. They pledged to campaign for them at the grassroots to ensure they clinch their seats. The governor also got support from religious leaders who have thrown their weight behind his re-election bid. The leaders drawn from Saku subcounty promised to support his candidature and ensure he clinches the seat. Sheikh Omar Sharrif Hassan said the governor has demonstrated quality leadership and has been an excellent servant who cares for the less fortunate in the county, things he said necessitated their support. Sheikh Mohamednur Kuli described governor Ali as a leader who is at the frontline in preaching peace and cohesion. The religious leaders are influential and they command respect in the community, which values their work in preaching peace and unity. The governor also received the endorsement of a renown businessman, giving his candidature a boost. While receiving the defectors, Governor Ali promised them that their decision to support his re-election bid will not go unpaid. He said his will be an all inclusive government that will ensure their interests are well taken care of. The governor defended his development record saying his administration boasts of key infrastructural projects in health, road, education and water. He said his administration takes pride in the Sololo Level Four Hospital, Marsabit Referral Hospital and the medical training college. "I want to state without fear that once completed and operational, Sololo Level Four Hospital will be the best," he said. The county boss said the 400-bed facility will greatly improve access to quality and affordable health services. He said his government through the health department will also equip the county referral hospital and all subcounty hospitals. Ali however, lashed out at his critics for spreading what he termed as propaganda aimed at tainting his administration's image. "Even though we did not deliver to your expectations, those with sound memory and eyes will confirm the county's transformation," he said. The governor further blamed the lag on insecurity, Covid-19 and delayed release of funds from the national government. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)