Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula suffered a blow after the Kamarati community in Mt Elgon withdrew their support for him in favour of UDP aspirant Herman Kasili. Speaking at Kasili’s residence in Webuye on Thursday during the endorsement, Kamarati clan elders led by Erick Chepkorom said that Mt Elgon has been neglected for a long time. It was high time Bungoma got a new senator who would help them reap the benefits of devolution, they said. Chepkorom noted that Senator Wetang’ula has been in the position for the two terms and it was time to replace him. “We don’t want to recycle leaders in the same position. Even if you elect someone for 20 years and he/she cannot deliver then it is better we drop him and give someone else who can deliver,” Chepkorom said. He said Rev Kasili was a renowned man of God in Western region and his work could be seen. “We did not just wake up in the morning and decided to back Kasili as our incoming senator. We have consulted widely and settled to support him as our best option,” he said, adding that they were optimistic Kasili would clinch the Senate seat. Chepkorom said the Kamarati community doesn’t lie and they will support Kasili to replace the Ford Kenya boss. Chepkorom urged politicians to stop dishing handouts to the youths and leave them without jobs, saying that instead they should support them start businesses. “The main problem facing many politicians, which needs to be addressed, is dishing out handouts to youths. Politicians should fund to help youths start to depend on themselves,” he said. He further urged Rev Kasili to organise a rally with the Azimio la Umoja presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga in the region and endorse him officially. “As we speak today, Mt Elgon is an Azimio bedroom. I ask our Senate aspirant Herman Kasili to organise a mega rally with Baba so that he can endorse Kasili in Mt Elgon,” he said. Chepkorom asked the Bungoma electorate to back aspirants who come on the ground and ask for votes, arguing that Senator Wetang’ula rarely campaigns but he is voted in. Rev Kasili told the Star he has done much while he was working at the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where he supported the less unfortunate people in the community in Bungoma to get relief food. Kasili added that all bishops in Bungoma county have rallied behind his bid, saying they wanted him to vie in 2013 and 2017 but he shelved his bid to allow Senator Wetang’ula complete his term. He added that he has traversed the entire county and residents have agreed to back his bid. Edited by Henry Makori