The Azimio la Umoja zoning plan continues to face resistance from candidates vowing not to step down. Some of the affected subcounties include Embakasi North and Makadara. Jubilee’s Makadara candidate Mark Ndung’u has vowed not to step down for Makadara MP George Aladwa. Ndung’u, who is currently serving as the Hamza MCA, has criticised the plan which he claims favours ODM against other affiliate parties. He said there is a scheme by incumbent MPs and high-ranking individuals within the coalition to lock out candidates seeking various seats for the first time. “They know the ground is not favouring them anymore and they are seeking solace through zoning yet they stand no chance to win,” Ndungu said. Embakasi North ODM candidate Jane Muringi has confirmed she is still in the race to unseat James Gakuya. She dismissed reports that she has stepped down in favour of Harrison Wangoro from Jubilee. “I am vying for this seat on the ODM ticket. I have the blessings of party leader Raila Odinga and the President both of whom I have diligently served in government and have delivered,” Murungi said. In 2017, Muringi run for the seat on an ODM ticket and lost to Gakuya. Last week, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna endorsed Jubilee’s Wangoro for Embakasi North parliamentary seat. At a rally in the subcounty, Sifuna said Raila had promised Muringi a job in his government. It was during the rally that Sifuna said Muringi had been convinced to step down for  Wangoro. “Raila Odinga has sent me with a message to Jane Muringi to step down on behalf of Wangoro Mwangi (Jubilee) and we will slot her for another job in Raila's secretariat,” he said. However, Muringi said no one has approached her and told her to step down. She warned Sifuna of misusing his position to mislead and spread malice. “I was with Odinga after the Azimio Council meeting at KICC and I wasn’t requested to drop my bid,” Muringi said. “I'm warning Sifuna not to be compromised and that he is risking Raila’s votes.” The Wiper party which is part of the Azimio is still campaigning for their Nairobi candidates who have been cleared by IEBC. So far wiper has 35 candidates seeking MCA positions and six parliamentary hopefuls. Among the six include Ben Milai ( Mathare), Fred Akech (Makadara), Tabitha Mutero (Kasarani), Joash Omwenga (Embakasi East), Julius Mawathe ( Embakasi South) and Kamukuni hopeful. The  party has insisted that it will not be subjected to zoning talks  Edited by Kiilu Damaris