@magatinews Kisii ODM governor candidate Simba Arati has said they will fix administrative issues and unearth thieves who have been embezzling funds from the devolved unit in his first 100 days. Arati said his zeal to end graft has seen some of the suspects panic and seek visas to escape. “They will run but will not escape from justice and must account for every coin,” he said. He said weak governance systems in the devolved unit were the cause for the substantial leakages of public funds, something he would wish to mend if elected. He said there is already clear work cut out. The war on graft, he said will be decisive and swift to ensure no root and stump are left. “I will walk the talk, we want to restore dignity,” he said. Arati said he plans to introduce smart farming to improve food production in the devolved unit. He wants to fund ECDE schools to start feeding programmes. “I sympathise with the learners who are forced to learn all day with little food in their stomachs,” Arati said. He said he would improve the working terms and conditions for the ECDE teachers to improve the education sector. “The Sh10,000 they are paid is not sufficient for any teacher to even pay for their NHIF. My administration would ensure they get more than this,”  Arati said. He promised to establish a special plant to process waste as part of the efforts to manage the garbage problem. Arati also condemned the vandalism and the destruction of his campaign materials across the county. He accused what he referred to as ‘funded hooligans’ who had been going round ripping and destroying his banners and those of other candidates. Arati said he wants security agencies to investigate the issue. He fingered his opponents for the destruction. He told the security agencies to show little mercy to goons who are committing the felony. Arati said at least two probox cars carrying hired goons had been going round targeting the banners for destruction. He said despite the vandalism, he is going to erect new banners warning that action will be taken if the banners are destroyed.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris