CS Wamalwa claimed the DP was angered after he took a delegation from Western Kenya to President Uhuru and not him He said if the DP would dared slapp him he would have reiterated. Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugine Wamalwa claims Deputy president William Ruto almost slapped him and his counterpart Fred Matiang'i. The CS who was addressing a rally in Bukhungu stadium on Saturday alleged that a meeting of the Luhya nation he organised with President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2018 was the borne of contention. He said the DP was offended after he organised the meeting with the President yet he also needed to meet the group bolster his 2022 bid. "Ata mimi karibu nipate slap ya huyo jamaa. Kuna siku nilipeleka delegation ya waluhya viongozi kwa Rais Uhuru kujadili jinsi ya kufufua kiwanda cha sukari cha Mumias. Jamaa alikasirika akasema mbona uliwapeleka waluhya kwa president badala ya kuwaleta kwangu..., " he alleged. The Star could not, however, verify the claims by the time of going to the press. We endeavor to give the DP’s side of the story as soon as possible. It is while making the allegation that he roped in Interior CS Matiang'i saying he was also a victim of the DP’s anger. Eugine claims Uhuru’s move to delegate most of the DP’s duties to Matiang'i angered Ruto. Wamalwa said he has forgiven him, but urged Western residents not to vote for Ruto over his alleged anger. "Jamaa alikuwa na hasira sijawahiona. Karibu nipate hiyo slap. Lakini hiyo slap ingeteleza iniguze, mimi singempa shavu lingine, ningempa uppercut moja tungeonana mundu khu mundu. Sio Mimi pekayangu, kuna waziri mwingine Fred Matiang'i karibu apigwe pia. Siku rais aliongeza Matiang'i mamlaka, huyo jamaa alikua na hasira kwake sana," Wamalwa alleged. The claims comes after a eaked audio of DP Ruto saying he almost slapped the president for almost quitting their Presidential bid in 2017. The audio elicited sharp reactions among Kenyans with opponents using it as an attack weapon. The DP, however, dismissed the use of the phrase teeming it as a figurative speech.