Agano’s party presidential aspirant David Mwaura on Tuesday said legalizing bhang is not a solution to mental health problems in Kenya. Speaking during the presidential debate 2022 at Catholic University, Mwaure said that it is high time the government prioritizes the mental health of Kenyans at such a difficult time. Despite advocating for the legalization of bhang, Roots party deputy presidential candidate Justina Wambui Wamae last week said that legalizing bhang is for economic growth. “Many people have mental challenges because of the high cost of living, not Marijuana. I have never smoked bhang and I will never smoke bhang.” Wamae is the running mate of Presidential candidate George Wajackoyah. Mwaure said that his party will oversee mental health counselling from the roots. “The country’s mental health is at a crisis, in our party’s covenant concerning health. This is something we will pay attention to in our hospital and trace it from as early as high school,” he said. “We need to come up with what other countries have like having a number, that a person can call and get immediate counselling.” Mwaure also said that he will ensure there is a level 5 hospital in every county with a mental health department in each facility that will offer guidance and counselling services. In Kenya, mental illness accounts for four per cent of significant health conditions, and the prevalence is rising, according to data from the Ministry of Health. The covid-19 pandemic has come with a surge in mental illness, depression, and anxiety, yet only 25 per cent of Kenyans can access mental health care. Depression is one of the most prevalent mental illnesses, with half of the people who go to general hospitals for any reason found to be suffering from the illness and have to pay from their pockets. Kenya is among the 28 per cent of WHO member states that do not have a separate budget for mental health, and government expenditure on mental health is 0.01 per cent of total expenditure.