The International Federation of Red Cross (IFRC) and Red Cross Crescent Societies Secretary-General, Jagan Chapagain has called for humanitarians and long-term assistance to the communities affected by drought in Africa. Chapagain was speaking at the end of a three-day tour in Kenya on Friday. He said that Marsabit has a Global Acute Malnutrition (GAM) rate of 53.6 per cent, making it one of the highest on the continent. "I have seen firsthand the level of suffering caused by drought in Marsabit . There are highly unacceptable levels of malnutrition. The situation is rapidly deteriorating. We need immediate humanitarian assistance to reach the most vulnerable," Chapaigain said. The director added that there was a need for a long-term solution to address the impact of climate change. "Including investment in resilient livelihood." A statement released by the Red Cross Society said that Kenya, Ethiopia, and Somalia are facing a large-scale, climate-induced, and humanitarian crisis with over 14 million people facing food insecurities. The society added that 5.5 million children are facing acute malnutrition. "Ethiopia has 6.1 million people in urgent need of assistance with Somalia having 4.1 million." The statement shows that Kenya has 3.5 million people facing acute food insecurities which have mostly affected the eastern, and northern parts of the country. "This silent disaster has been overshadowed-and to a significant extend amplified- by the Ukraine crisis," Red Cross Society said. Chapagain however, said the need is not just the provision of water and food. "It is what is happening in the background. Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and profound impacts on mental health," he said. Chapagain added that a 40-kilometer journey to reach potable water is dangerous for the women, saying what happens to them on the journey is unthinkable. Kenya Red Cross Society secretary-general Asha Mohammed pointed out that the road to recovery for the residents of Marsabit will be long and slow. This is considering that they have lost over 70 per cent of their main source of livelihood, livestock. "Our teams are playing a central role in reducing the risks that families are facing. They have provided cash and food assistance and improved water treatment practices, but the need to rehabilitate water systems remains urgent," Mohammed said. She reiterated the call for urgent assistance. The IFRC, Kenya Red Cross, Ethiopia Red Cross, and Somali Red Crescent have pledged Sh4.6 billion (39 million Swiss Francs) to help fight hunger and drought in the three countries. This will help support 1,560,000 people by scaling up their emergency and humanitarian assistance and recovery activities. It will also help tackle the root causes of food insecurities. The strategy is aligned with IFRC's Pan African Zero Hunger Initiative which deals with food insecurity and livelihood support. Chapagain reiterated his call for support saying that food is a basic need for the population. "We call upon every Government in Africa to ensure they have the right policy framework to deal with drought," Chapagain said.