A Kibera court has dismissed an application to detain four members of a family connected to a Sh101 million theft case. Detectives had on Wednesday sought for 10 more days to conclude their investigations. Caleb Rasto, Agaziva Kenneth, Eunice Akinyi Moi, and Jackline Minayo appeared before Kibera’s senior principal magistrate Derrick Kuto. Rasto, Kenneth and Minayo are accused of colluding with Eunice Akinyi Moi, a house help, to steal from Samar Akindy. Inspector Daniel Saida from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations,  Lang’ata said the complainant left the country on April 29 to visit her husband in Oman. He said the matter was reported by Athanus Makau on behalf of the complainant Akindy on May 5. Saida said the complainant stays in Lang’ata Sun Valley estate alongside the Makau and the house girl. “The complainant had left some contractors who were putting a glass roof on her house. But before she left she informed Makau there was some workmanship that was not satisfactory. "She requested Makau to have a meeting at her residence and discuss on modalities of carrying out some amendments on the roof,” the court heard. On arrival, Makau found the main entrance was blocked. However on accessing the house they found the door open and the house vandalised. The househelp was also missing. The safe which contained the money, jewellery and title deeds was also missing. The court heard that the detectives from Lang’ata rushed to the scene and upon doing the investigations they established that Sh101 million missing. Police said a vehicle at the center of the crime is also missing and more time was needed to establish the involvement of more suspects. The respondents' lawyer James Gitau however said police ought to have conducted the investigations before arresting them. “They were arrested on May 5 and have been in custody since then. Detaining them further is a way of violating their rights,” he said. Gitau urged the court to dismiss the application and release his client on a lenient bond term. Kuto dismissed the application saying there was no sufficient grounds for the detention. He however said the suspects ought to report to the police station every morning until their case is mentioned on May 18. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)