The upgrading of Ruiru town is advancing following completion of some 250 parking lots. The parking spaces have come as a relief to motorists and traders who have been grappling with huge congestion within the town. Non-motorised facilities have also been constructed to enhance walking and cycling experience for residents within the Central Business District. Other works include construction of link roads, an elaborate drainage system and installation of some 400 street lights to boost security and enhance trade. While inspecting the project, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro said Ruiru was a fast growing town and hence the need for requisite amenities to promote investments. Nyoro said once the project is complete, the perennial traffic congestion within the busy town will be a thing of the past. “This is an infrastructure development that we are committed to implement in all our major towns, including rehabilitating rural access roads," Nyoro said. "Increased urban population demands efficient infrastructure and it's against this backdrop that my administration has prioritised improvement in Ruiru, Juja, Gwa Kairu and Wendani." Nyoro said investors are keen on Ruiru due to its proximity to Nairobi, population of more than 600,000 residents, Thika Superhighway and a railway line. “This is why we are re-evaluating the town plan to attract more investors. The narrow roads are being expanded, lack of parking lots that frustrate traders has been sorted and water issues are being addressed,” Nyoro said. Nyoro noted that there are other projects being undertaken by his administration. They include upgrading to bitumen standard of the Uchumi to JKUAT gate A road to ease traffic at Juja town bridge. Motorists will be able to use Eco Matt-Cooperative-Senate-booster road  to access JKUAT and Gachororo, Mungetho, Mirimaini and Sisal. “My administration has been at the forefront of making sure there are structures that will benefit residents in our urban areas,” Nyoro said. Traders hailed the county for putting up vital amenities in Ruiru town, saying it will decongest the town and enhance trade. “Our clients have been facing a hard time accessing our premises due to congestion forcing them to seek for goods and services in other towns. The projects will give Ruiru a new face and boost trade,” Philip Muiruri, a trader said.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)