The man who claimed former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko visited the wrong grave for political mileage is ready for a handshake, after he was summoned Lamu elders. Abubakar Aboud, a businessman in Mombasa, has reached out to Sonko in efforts to patch things up with the flamboyant politician. The Star has established that through a business partner, Jackson Waweru who is a mutual friend of the two, Aboud has reached out to Sonko, who is ready to accept his apology. Behind the scenes efforts have seen Waweru go back and forth between Aboud and Sonko, who has been acting as an intermediary. Aboud has also said that his mother who lives in Lamu is still alive. He clarified that the woman buried in Kikowani Cemetery where Sonko’s mother Saumu Mbuvi was also buried is the woman who raised him. “The mother, who gave birth to me, is alive. The one who raised me, since I was a little boy, which everyone knows, was buried here. My birth mother is in Lamu. I cannot kill my own mother,” Aboud told the intermediary. Aboud said he left Lamu as a young boy in primary school and came to Mombasa where he was raised by Mariam Ali, who was buried at the Kikowani cemetery seven years ago. Saumu Mbuvi was buried at the cemetery in 1997. Due to space limitation, Islam allows up to 40 bodies to be buried in one grave so long as they are of the same gender. Already, Aboud and Sonko have made initial contact through a phone call. Aboud is expected to travel to Lamu, where elders have summoned him, to seek forgiveness from his birth mother because of the confusion his statement caused on Saturday. “He is also willing to appear before the elders and seek their forgiveness,” Waweru said. The Lamu elders were miffed that Aboud claimed his mother was dead yet she is alive. Aboud said his wife has been receiving numerous phone calls from family and friends seeking to know what transpired. This is after Aboud and a woman in a black veil who covered her face, were seen in a viral video vilifying Sonko for using their mother’s grave ‘for political mileage’. This made people assume the woman was his wife. “My wife is stressed because of this issue,” Aboud said. Waweru intimated that although Sonko was disappointed with Aboud’s statement, he was willing to forgive him should he apologise. Sonko’s team believes Aboud was used by Sonko’s opponents to tarnish his name. On Friday, May 6, at around 5.20pm, Sonko, in the company of Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his running mate Ali Mbogo visited his mother’s grave at Kikowani Cemetery. The visit was politically meant to affirm that Sonko is a bonafide resident of Mombasa and not an outsider as had been claimed by his opponents. His opponents have insisted that the county cannot be led by an outsider.