A meal of your favourite Indomie noodles could be a health hazard to you and your household, a consumer rights watchdog has warned. The Consumer Federation of Kenya (COFEK) has cautioned Kenyan consumers that Indomie contains chemicals that could be harmful to human health. “We advise consumers to refrain from either consuming and or purchasing any imported Indomie until necessary verification is conducted by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and other relevant agencies,” the federation said in a statement on Wednesday. It further warned that the imported toxic Indomie on the shelves could be containing aflatoxins. Aflatoxin toxicity may result in nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, convulsions and other signs of acute liver injury. Long-term exposure also leads to various complications like growth retardation, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Cofek advised consumers against purchasing the product until the necessary tests are conducted by the relevant bodies. “Those who may have purchased Indomie are requested to ensure samples are tested in credible laboratories before consumption,” Cofek said. The consumer watchdog urged suppliers to refrain from selling or distributing the products until conclusive tests are done. “We urge all responsible supermarkets and other retailers of Indomie to voluntarily get the product off the shelves for a couple of weeks as tests are conducted.” In reference to the recent ban of Kinder Joy, COFEK wants the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) to hasten investigations into the matter. “We urge KEBS to demonstrate some level of urgency and decisiveness in condemning suspected contaminated food," Cofek said in its report. The federation said investigations should be thorough to unmask any deceptive labeling of banned products to indicate that they are genuine and safe products imported from a different country from the one whose products have been found to be unsafe. “The case of the Kinder Joy remains a case in point. Consumers should exercise extreme discretion before consumption,” Cofek said.