Eighty-five disadvantaged learners are set to benefit from a Sh10 million scholarship kitty by Prudential Kenya. The health insurance and asset management firm based in Asia and Africa on Tuesday signed a partnership with the Kenya Education Fund (KEF) to provide free high school education to 85 students. The partnership is expected to provide a financial cushion for the families who suffered loss of income and are unable to pay school fees for their children, due to the adverse effect of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The learning loss as a result of the pandemic will have a devastating impact on future productivity and well-being for this generation of children and youth," Marc Fancy, executive director of Prudence Foundation said. "At Prudence Foundation, our mission is to secure the future of the communities in which we operate, and we are committed to supporting communities and governments to bring all children back to schools." Prudential Kenya CEO, Gwen Kinisu said over the last eight years the firm has supported educational programs and projects focused on allowing vulnerable children to access quality education. “The sponsored The Kenya Education Fund (KEF) Country has received 4,407 applications from standard eight leavers this year.students will not only get financial gain in terms of paid school fees but also essential life and social skills to help them become all-rounded people in the society, this is because we believe that education is the foundation for all forms of development and a catalyst for growth and success in life” Kinisu said. Since its outbreak two years ago, Covid-19 has disrupted education not only in Kenya but also globally, with vulnerable learners from disadvantaged backgrounds being the worst hit. The pandemic uncovered the reality of inequality that greatly affects scholars, many of whom live in marginalized parts of the country, and during the period when schools were closed due to the pandemic, had little or no access to the digital tools required to continue learning virtually. Dominic Muasya, the Kenya Education Fund (KEF) Country Director said this year, the Fund received 4,407 applications from standard eight leavers who may not be able to go to school unless financially supported. "This is the highest number of applications we have ever received in our 15-year history. It exposes the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and the general economic hardships being experienced countrywide," he said. Last year Prudential Kenya joined forces with KEF in printing and distributing over 16,000 revision books countrywide during the Covid-19 lockdown. At the same time over 6,000 female learners received sanitary towels.