President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to continue being cautious of Covid-19. Speaking at State House on Sunday, as he presided over the 92nd inspection parade of the St John Ambulance Kenya, the President said that despite relaxation of the disease containment measures, the danger of infections spreading still lurks. “We must, continue to be careful as we go about our daily callings; and more importantly, I urge all Kenyans to get vaccinated or receive your booster shots, so that we may put the pandemic behind us, once-and-for-all,” Uhuru said. The Head of State announced a Sh150 million annual Government sponsorship for the organisation starting with Sh100 million this financial year. The President, who is the Chief Patron of the humanitarian institution, challenged it to include more young people in its activities by engaging learning institutions at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. “By placing a value on volunteerism, we shall be nurturing a higher calling and building a strong sense of civic responsibility amongst the leaders of today and tomorrow.” Uhuru directed the Ministry of Education to develop innovative initiatives that will foster and recognise student volunteers among them preferential consideration when seeking internship opportunities. “The Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) framework provides a perfect opportunity for this endeavour,” he said. The President commended St John Kenya for contributing to favourable health indicators under the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) programme, noting that the organisation’s various pre-hospital care related training courses have ensured the country has a growing population of first aiders. He not that St John tirelessly sensitised Kenyans about Covid-19, hosted handwashing campaigns and even helped the Ministry of Health in the administration of Covid-19 vaccines. "As a thankful nation, this country appreciates you for your quality service,” the President said. On prevention of road accidents, President Kenyatta said the country must rethink its approach to the critical minutes after an accident occurs, by making road users part of the solution. He directed the Ministry of Transport to develop an appropriate sectoral plan as part of its 2023 to 2027 medium plan to offer first aid training and basic post-accident evacuation protocols as a pre-requisite for all licensed drivers. “I am also glad to note that the Ministry of Transport, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and St John Kenya, has put in place elaborate plans to implement road safety and first aid safety training for boda boda riders across the country. “We already have launched an initial pilot scheme covering 200 boda boda riders; which, we believe, shall be a key resource at these rescue centres, offering first aid care as first responders,” Uhuru said. President Kenyatta, who is the Chief Patron of the organisation was knighted to the Order of the St John for his service to humanity. The admission of President Kenyatta as Knight of the most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem was conducted by the Order’s Chancellor Dr Gillian Willmore at State House, Nairobi. Uhuru thanked Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II for honouring him with the coveted award of a Knight under the Order of St John and committed to continue serving humanity with humility.