Deputy President William Ruto has fired back at his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta who accused him of doing nothing to help in addressing the rising cost of living. During the Labour Day celebrations at the Nyayo Stadium on Sunday, Uhuru, without mentioning name, blasted his deputy for faulting him over the rising cost of living yet he is not the cause. Ruto, in his response, turned the heat back to Uhuru saying it was him who took away his duties and gave other people/ "I feel your pain. Those you assigned my responsibilities and 'project' mzee have let you own miserably," Ruto said. "They bangled our BIG4, killed our party and wasted your 2nd term. Boss, am available. Just a phone call away. Sadly the last cabinet was two years ago." The response came shortly after Uhuru said the DP and his allies have been misleading the nation about the true state of affairs regarding the economy. Uhuru defended himself saying he has done a lot to salvage the situation adding that his deputy has run away from his mandate instead of providing solutions. "It is not Kenyans who brought the Covid 19 pandemic that cost loss of lives and jobs. But even as we try to bring back order and revive the economy, others have begun wars that are completely out of nowhere." Uhuru added that: "Instead of coming to help me and offer your advice, you are busy in the market abusing people and you are calling yourself a leader of a higher rank. You should have left long ago I get some else to help me work." This comes a day after the country marked seven days of mourning the late President Mwai Kibaki who was laid to rest on Saturday at his home in Othaya, an event that attracted thousands of Kenyans. Both the Kenya Kwanza and Azimio had temporarily suspended their campaigns as a sign of honour to Kibaki. The latest exchange from the president and his deputy indicates that the battle of succession is back. The president is supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga as the best choice to succeed him, but Kenyans will decide come August 9 during the election. Ruto allies also criticised the president, some saying that he is regretting for sidelining the DP and his team from the government. Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the president, in 2019 issued Executive Order No.1 stripping the DP of any responsibilities which left him exposed, clueless and rudderless. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga said the president should resign.