Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen urges to his Baringo counterpart Gideon Moi and wiper leader Kalonzo Myyoka to join Kenya Kwanza. Murkomen mocks Gideon and Kalonzo saying they were being discriminated against and they don’t seem to have a place in the Raila Odinga-led Azimio camp. “If really they valued them then they should have been given least a good share of leadership position in their formation deal,” he said. He further said he expected President Uhuru Kenyatta to name Gideon his preferred heir after completing his 10-year term, but he didn’t. Addressing a prayer rally for United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party nominees in Kabarnet town, Moi’s backyard on Sunday, Murkomen urged Gideon to rethink his political path and consider supporting DP Ruto. “In UDA we believe Ruto shall win and become the 5th president of Kenya and I don’t want my brother Gideon to be locked outside in the opposition,” he said. Earlier on, Senator Moi had stated clearly that his party Kenya African National Union (KANU) is fully in Azimio and that he shall not dare shake or move out of it. Through the KANU Secretary General Nick Salat, Gideon further declared his bid to resume back and defend his senatorial seat in Baringo as the clock ticks faster towards the August 9th general election. He will face the UDA nominee William Cheptumo who garnered 69,420 votes against his competitor Isaiah Kirukmet who came second with 25,681 votes. Murkomen advised Gideon to convince his brother, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to join Kenya Kwanza, further saying the two haven’t benefited anything either from Uhuru-Raila handshake deals. “If Gideon could only be listening to how Raila is bitter on how his late father Mzee Moi detained and tortured him, then he should not be thinking of supporting Azimio,” he said. He further criticized Senator Moi’s plans to go back and seek reelection for Baringo senatorial seat, terming it a desperate move. “It is like a child schooling up to University level and dropping back to start off again in the nursery,” Murkomen said. He was backed by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang who took to the podium to plead to Senator Moi to consider joining the Kenya Kwanza team. “Us the Nandi’s supported his father, late Mzee Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi, to clinch presidency for 24 years. It is now time Gideon should honour the debt by reciprocating and supporting William Ruto in his presidential bid,” Sang said.