Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua’s move to Kenya Kwanza was untimely, Azimio Lower Eastern region coordinator Mutua Katuku has said. He said the move does not have much impact since Ukambani region is locked by Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance. “The governor’s move was unfortunate even though it was his democratic right. We urge our supporters to remain firm in Azimio. Mutua’s move won’t change anything,” Katuku said. He termed Mutua’s reasons for ditching Azimio "vague". Katuku said Ukambani region is 85 per cent Azimio and no political dynamics would reduce the numbers. “His reasons aren’t worth at all. He can’t move because of a document he signed. That doesn’t warrant him to move to another coalition,” he said. Katuku said Mutua needs to tell Kenyans the truth about why he ditched Azimio for deputy president’s political bandwagon. He said the governor is not fair to aspirants in his party. “Something must have changed hands. Maendeleo Chap Chap aspirants across the country had used their resources in drumming support for Raila.  They had printed campaign materials like T-shirts, banners, posters and branded their cars with Raila’s portraits and Azimio colours,” he said. Katuku, who is also the People's Trust Party leader, said Mutua did the same thing to him in 2018. "He isn’t fair to MCCP candidates, he did me the same thing in 2018.  I had gone into a coalition with him that I run on his Maendeleo Chap Chap party during the Machakos senatorial by-election. He withdrew my candidature two days before the ballot claiming that President Uhuru Kenyatta had ordered that I withdraw my candidature in favour of Wiper's Agnes Kavindu,” he said. “What he did to me is what he has done to his MCCP candidates. He shouldn’t put people as characters in his own movie. This is a real life situation.” He said Mutua is throwing MCCP aspirants contesting for various positions in Ukambani ‘under the bus’ since Kenya Kwanza is not popular in the region. “It’s very unfortunate, not many of his candidates will win the seats they are contesting for on the Maendeleo Chap Chap party,” Katuku said. Political analyst and Chama Cha Uzalendo secretary general Philippe Sadja said Mutua is not a ‘power house’ and his joining Ruto will not affect Azimio votes in Ukambani or nationally. He however said Mutua is still powerful and popular in Machakos county. "You can’t assume him. He is powerful with good grassroots structures. He has well organised political machinery which he can use to push his agenda. He doesn’t have political muscles nationally, but shouldn’t be assumed in Machakos county,” Sadja said. In Machakos governor race, he said there were forces pushing for zoning indirectly. He said CCU governor hopeful Nzioka Waita won’t bow to the pressure. “There are two popular candidates for the position. There are forces that are already pushing for someone to step down in favour of a certain candidate so as not to allow UDA candidate to win,” Sadja said. “Mutua’s joining Ruto can be a challenge to Waita and his Wiper opponent Wavinya Ndeti-who are in Azimio. Azimio’s secretariat has talked about zoning, but the only areas we have talked about on balancing are Senate and MPs seats.” Sadja said they do not want a situation where Ruto’s camp wins more MPs and senators seats, especially in Ukambani region. “A sitting president needs MPs and senators who can be relied on. If it comes to county level, we have disagreed on the zoning of governors and MCAs proposals. Let the people decide on the leaders they want through a ballot,” he said. Sadja also said Wiper is not strong in Ukambani. "Why are Kivutha Kibwana, Charity Ngilu and Alfred Mutua governors of Makueni, Kitui and Machakos respectively if Wiper is strong? They are all non-Wiper members,” Sadja said. Edited by A.N