The Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics  has called for peace and religious tolerance before, during and after the August 9 general election. Led by the council’s CEO Reverend Stephen Anyenda, they called on Kenyans to avoid politicians who are hell-bent to divide them along tribal and religious lines. On Thursday evening,  CICC organised an Iftar dinner that brought together members of the Muslim, Christian, and Hindu communities hosted at the Nyali Baptist Church in Mombasa. “Our prayer is that as we head towards the August general elections, Kenyans should learn that we need to remain united. Politics will come and go, you don’t need to fight your neighbour and ruin your friendship," Anyenda said. He said the Iftar dinner with leaders from different religious communities was a show of unity despite differences as God commanded. Anyenda  called on Kenyans to work towards bringing all  religious communities together to build a united and prosperous Kenya. “When we sit together and eat together, it is a sign of love and unity. Choose the leaders you want but with a smile on your face and not fighting your neighbour,” he said. Sheikh Mahmoud Abdullahi, who is the Mombasa CICC chairman, said as religious leaders they had set the pace for others to follow. He said the Iftar supper was organised by the Christian community and others reciprocated by attending in a great show of love. He emphasised that despite their divergent religious views, common values were bringing people together, one of them being peace. “This is a clear signal that religious leaders are together. We will not allow politicians to divide Kenyans along religious lines. We all believe in one God and advocate for peace and harmony,” he said. Sheikh Alfan Ali of the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims called on politicians to tone down their rhetoric and campaign peacefully. He warned citizens to be worried because during the campaign period, a group of politicians will work very hard to divide Kenyans. “Kenya is bigger than anyone. We urge supporters of different politicians to exercise their democratic right but in a peaceful manner," Ali said. "Politicians also need to tone down their rhetoric, we need Kenya today and we will still need it tomorrow." (Edited by V. Graham)