The General Service Unit GSU coach Gideon Tarus was in awe of the top-notch performance delivered by left attackers Naftali Chumba and Joshua Kimaru as the paramilitary side ran riot in their 3-0 win against Nyanza Prisons at Nyayo Stadium. GSU, the Kenya Volleyball Federation men’s league defending champions, were peerless in attack in their straight-set win (25-14, 25-19 and 25-22). Setter Brian Melly made his long-awaited comeback while Simon Kipkorir was an unused substitute. The pair recently returned from their short professional stints in Europe. “The whole team played well but Chumba led by example. Kimaru is finally showing why we beat a host of clubs to his signature. His confidence has developed and he’s fearless in his approach,” Tarus said. The serial-winning coach, who doubles up as the national men’s team gaffer, added: “I have no doubt he’s the next big thing in Kenyan volleyball. The next step for him is to get international exposure under his belt at the African Club Championship, hopefully, next year.” Kimaru, 21, joined from Equity last season. GSU have prioritised retaining the local title this season, having given the African Club Championships a wide berth. In another match, Kenya Defence Forces disarmed Administration Police in straight sets of 25-15, 25-15 and 25-20. KDF pulled a major surprise to beat Kenya Prisons in the previous leg and the Elisha Aliwa-led side seem to have found their footing. AP are winless in their last five matches, having won just three sets. Elsewhere, Kenya Forest Service and Kenya Prisons earned walkovers as both Western Prisons and Vihiga were no-shows. “We take the three points but we would have loved to use the match as preparations for our match against Equity,” KFS coach Wachira Gatuiria said. Equity Bank put their African Club disappointment aside to dismantle Rift Valley Prisons in straight sets of 25-14, 25-16 and 25-16. The bankers, faultless from the start, finished 10th in Tunisia in their maiden appearance at the continental level, 10 days ago.