An enraged KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno has lashed out at centre referee Anthony Juma Ogwayo, saying he awarded a contentious penalty that handed AFC Leopards an undeserved victory at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. Otieno made the remarks after his charges crushed 2-1 with the spot kick making all the difference in a tension-packed Kenyan Premier League clash. “We don't mind losing matches fairly. The decision to award the penalty was simply outrageous,” Otieno said, visibly upset. “That kind of officiating only serves to bring a lot of disrepute to the game of football. In such a situation, it becomes extremely difficult to get a deserving winner at the end of the season.” Ogwayo awarded the controversial penalty after adjudging striker Victor Omune to have been fouled inside the area. It was not immediately clear what informed the decision given Omune had just miscued his close-range effort after coming onto the end of John Makwatta's enticing cross inside the six-yard area. Ogwayo, unperturbed by heated remonstrations by disgruntled KCB players, dug in as Makwatta gladly stepped up to double Leopards' advantage — his fourth goal in five matches. Omune had earlier fired Leopards into the lead in the 19th minute after being teed up by Nigerian forward Ojo Olaniyi. Ogwayo later awarded KCB a penalty in the second half only for Sidney Lokale to squander the opportunity barely minutes after netting the bankers' consolation. Leopards custodian Levis Opiyo was the toast of the day, after stretching full length to block Lokale's effort from the spot. Leopards head gaffer, Patrick Aussems, was elated with the turn of events, saying his players deserved the win. “We were the better side throughout the match. We dominated possession and we should have won by a bigger margin only that we were not clinical enough in front of goal,” Aussems said. “It's quite encouraging to see the team getting better with time and there is no doubt that if we continue with this form, we stand a chance of finishing in the top ten.” Elsewhere, Nairobi City Stars and Kenya Police FC shared spoils in a barren draw at the Ruaraka Grounds. Leaders Kakamega Homeboyz failed to open the gap on second-placed Tusker after settling for a one-all draw with Wazito at Bukhungu Stadium while record champions, Gor Mahia, and Kariobangi Sharks played out to a barren draw at Thika Stadium.