Kakamega Central Deputy County Commissioner Ngalia Ndaya has warned politicians against using their supporters to cause chaos and violence against their opponents during campaigns. Speaking today during the national Women’s Peace Walk in Kakamega to mark the World Day for cultural diversity for dialogue and development 2022, Ndaya also called upon the public to maintain peace before, during and after the forthcoming general elections. He said it was the responsibility of every citizen to ensure that this year’s election is carried out peacefully. “The government will ensure that every Kenyan upholds the law at all times. In the past, we have witnessed chaos during political campaigns where members of the public have been misadvised by their favourite politicians against their neighbours, friends and families with whom they have lived in harmony before the campaigns," he warned. We don’t want this to happen this year as we advocate for peaceful campaigns and elections across the country because we will still need each other after the elections.” Getry Agiza who represented the Friends United Meeting, a Quaker church organization, stated that the church should be in the forefront to pray and preach peace during and after this year’s elections. “Reports do indicate that Kakamega is one of the hotspots of chaos in the country. But I want to ask people of the Mulembe Nation and Kenyans as a whole not to engage in activities that would threaten the peace of this country," he said "The church will continue to pray for the country and continue preaching the gospel of peace so that we can go to the polls in peace and continue to uphold peace even after the elections,” Agiza said. The global ambassador for peace and a clean environment Naomi Nancy Nakhumicha called upon politicians to shun violence during their campaigns and elections saying that it’s the women and children that suffer the most when an election is marred with chaos and physical confrontations. She also called upon politicians to sign the peace charter as a sign of commitment to uphold peace during this electioneering period.