Bondeni slum residents in Athi River, Machakos County were shocked to return home from work on Friday evening only to find their houses razed by fire inferno. The victims, some of who returned home from their respective work places as late as 10.00pm Friday had no idea that their rented mabati structures had been consumed by fire early in the day. Area chief Cecilia Nzioka said the houses were burnt down at 10.00am when the fire broke out. The cause of the fire is still unknown as investigations continue. More than 37 houses were completely consumed by the fire while 14 others left inhabitable. More than 100 residents were affected by the inferno. They spent their Friday night in the cold together with their children. "I have just returned from hustle only to find no home, my house has been burnt completely," a resident Geoffrey Mwanzia. Mwanzia who used to pay Sh2000 per month for the house said he was shocked to only find ashes. The 26 - year - old lives alone in the single room. Mwanzia was carrying two plastic bottles of 500 ml each on his left hands when he arrived with a phone whose light he used to maneuver in the dark on his right hand. "I had just bought paraffin and some cooking oil ready to prepare supper once I get home. But, to my surprise, there is no home to get to, leave a lone food to be cooked using paraffin and cooking oil. I don't know what to do," he said. The victim works in construction cites within Athi River Town as a casual where he says phones ain't aloud during working hours. "I wasn't informed of the incident. We don't get to work with phones, I found four missed calls from my neighbours though but were unreachable when I tried calling them back." He had lived in the burnt house only for three months. Another resident Nichodemus Makau 22, wasn't also aware of the incident until he arrived home. He works at a local cement manufacturing company within the town. "I have just returned now, I have lost everything," Makau said. The victims lost several items including bedding, clothing, cookery, utensils, furniture, food, school uniform, money, personal documents and electronics. Another resident  Joyce Mbingu 39, sought refuge in an abandoned single mabati structure just next to where their houses had been razed. Together with her four little children seated on the floor, Mbingu was preparing supper when the Star visited her on Friday night. "I am one of the victims in the Bondeni slum fire. I have lost everything including books and school uniforms, I wonder whether my children will go to school, " Mbingu told the Star. "I have been given cooking flour by a well wisher to cook for my children before I think of the next move." The incident happened when she was out of the house fetching water and only managed to rescue her children. The single mother said she didn't know what to do. He children are aged between one year, ten months and eighteen.