Catholic bishops want more collaboration between the church and the media for the country’s good in the run-up to the August 9 election. The bishops led by Nyeri Archdiocese’s Archbishop Anthony Muheria said the media has been repellent of every of their overtures to work together in the interest of the country. Muheria spoke on Wednesday in Nairobi during a breakfast meeting with the media players led by Editors’ Guild president Churchill Otieno. He said the clergy has been consistent in preaching against corruption but the media ignores them, preferring to cover men of the cloth who are rough and dramatic. The archbishop said the partnership between the church and media has transformed over the year from a comradeship to accusatory in nature. He said while the two institutions worked together during the struggle for expanded democracy and multi-party practice, the relationship took a hit decades later as the country transformed. Muheria said the media failed to recognise the work the church did in holding the country together and mediating peace during the post poll chaos in 2007-08. He said in 2010 during the constitution making process, the media turned against the church, giving them what he called a shallow coverage. “The media became very hostile towards us, even refusing to take adverts from us. It was that bad,” the archbishop said. During the process, the church had opposed the provisions on abortion and inclusion of Kadhi’s courts in the document. “The media only focused on those two elements and not on the broader issues we brought to the table. "I remember how politicians hurled unprintable words at me and about me during those tough negotiations. But the press was part of the group that insisted the constitution was to be adopted then, without any wait,” Muheria said. He said over the decade, the media has retained an eye for business and money, focusing more “on what pays or what sells.” The bishop said the media has also sharpened its penchant for drama, only focusing on politicians who can cause more theatre than the voice of substance in pursuit of traffic and money. However, media players also challenged the bishops on the role of big money in the church, saying men of the cloth have been compromised at the altar of donations. Muheria said there was nothing wrong with the church receiving donations and that corruption was a complex issue that could not be reduced to harambees only. The bishops asked editors to offer them more space to speak about issues of national importance, including peace and reconciliation in the run up to the polls. He said giving the church prominence will help elevate their profile and credibility to mediate, in case the leaders were to be brought together. Bishops Dominic Kimengich and Joseph Obanyi of Kakamega also attended the event. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)