The team of Morris Njue, Victor Kidiwa, Paul Ichangi, and Josiah Kogo are the winners of the 17th leg of the Johnnie Walker Golf Series played yesterday at the Royal Nairobi Golf Club. The quartet returned a combined score of 111 points to clinch the title— three more than the team of Humphrey Wattanga, Steve Lugalia, Sammy Itemere and Shadrack Ogindo who scored a combined 108 points to seal the second position. The team of Dsouza Renato, Felix Ochieng Mark Okeyo and Sylvester Odhiambo claimed the third position after posting a combined score of 102 points. In the individual category, handicap 20, Xilian Pen led the men's category with 40 points ahead of handicap 15, and David Mogore placed second with similar points. In the ladies category, handicap 41 Agnes Muchemi was the star of the day after returning 43 points. She beat handicap 19 Diana Mbuba ( 34 points) to second place. Joseph King’ora and Vijay Gidoomal won the first and second nine respectively. In the longest drive challenge, James Kamenchu and Eunice Koome emerged top while Johnstone Kimanzi claimed the plaudits for the nearest to the pin challenge. At the Nyanza Club, Griffins Owino led the team of Julius Omollo, David Omollo, and Elizabeth Akinyi to victory after carding 101 points. The team of Raju Bhayani, Bhupen Shah, Ajay Soni, and Bravan Patel came in second after returning a combined score of 100. They beat the quartet of Joseph Atito, Tom Agumbi, James Onyango and Thomas Odongo to the second runners-up spot on countback. Jeremiah Onyach won the men’s category with 40 points, beating Noah Winja (38 points) to the second spot. In the ladies' category, Rosemary Obara emerged the winner with 35 points, five more than second-placed Vivian Amusala. Joshua Ashioya and Dr. James Akhonya ruled the first and second nine with 23 and 19 points respectively. David Mwaura and Rita Angote emerged top in the men's and ladies' longest drive as s Martin Oduor claimed the nearest to the pin contest. The three winning teams from both events will join the already qualified teams in the series’ Eagles Round on May 13 at Muthaiga Golf Club. They will be seeking to make the cut to play at the Grand Finale that is set for May 20 at the Karen, where the winning team will win a trip to the iconic Gleneagles Golf Course in Scotland.