Ghana's Exchequers beat United States International University USIU-A Mashujaa 2-0 in their second match of the Gold Cup invitational tournament at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, Nairobi on Sunday. Captain Akaba Elikem scored from the penalty spot to give the moneybags a deserved 54th-minute lead. Francis Tettey's 56th field goal sealed the win for the visitors, who booked a date with Strathmore Gladiators at the same venue on Monday. Exchequers coach Richmond Attipo said their patient build-up paid huge dividends despite the defensive tactics adopted by the opposition. "We dominated but we had to wait for our moment. Scoring was always guaranteed because we created countless chances," Attipo hinted. "It was tough in the first half. They made life difficult for my team and sealed all the loopholes. We can rest easy knowing that we have garnered maximum points so far but Strathmore will pose a bigger challenge." His opposite number John Kabuu said mental fatigue play a role in their loss, citing a lapse in concentration that led to the opening goal. "Thumbs up to Exchequers. The best team won. We gave them a run for their money but we lacked the endurance to last the distance. Exchequers were fitter and sharper. Our conversion was costly again," he said. "Had we scored from the chances we created early in the match, we would have calmed the nerves of the players. " Mashujaa were without first-choice international goalkeeper, Samuel Silong, who is nursing a foot injury. Silong has been a mainstay in the team since making his big breakthrough in 2019. However, it was not all gloom for Kabuu, who added: "This is good international outing for the players without national team experience. It's massive for the boys because we rarely hold tournaments of such magnitude." "We meet familiar foes Kenya Police and I want to see a change in mentality," added the ex-player. The week-long, four-team competition ends on May 6. Tuesday is a rest day with six matches lined up between Wednesday and Friday.