Residents and leaders of Kaloleni subcounty on Wednesday held their first cultural exhibition in Mariakani town, Kilifi county. The event was to showcase diverse cultures and promote peace and cohesion during the electioneering period. Organisers want to make it an annual event. Kaloleni subcounty administrator Wilson Godana said they came up with the idea to bring communities in the area together. Different communities including the Mijikenda, Maasai, Kamba, Kikuyu, and Luo showcased their cultures. “As we head into the electioneering period, we want everyone to know that we may have different political affiliations and support different politicians, but that should not divide us,” Godana said. He said there is no need for violence since the leaders who will be elected in August will serve all people regardless of whether they voted for them or not. Mariakani Culture chairman Joseph Karisa urged residents to continue living in harmony and not allow politics to divide them. He said people from different ethnic backgrounds have invested in the area and call Mariakani home. “As a community, we coexist. There is no Giriama with two heads or Luo with three heads. Giriamas and Luos each have one head and when you cut someone, the blood is red. There is no Giriama who has green blood,” Karisa said. He said they are educating the youth about the importance of culture and they should not think that tradition is witchcraft. “We have heard cases of youth killing elders by suspecting they are witch doctors because they are wearing traditional clothes. We want to end those beliefs,” he said. Mariakani chief Harrison Konde said Mariakani has at least 42 tribes living there and that is why they thought it was important to bring all residents together to showcase their cultures and traditions. “It is important to have this cultural day here in Mariakani for the youth to be proud of their culture and learn the diverse traditions,” Konde said. Dadu Mbaruku, a Kaya elder from Kaya Fungo, said he was happy to be part of the cultural celebrations. He said such events will go a long way in enlightening the younger generations of their culture. Mariakani ward administrator Mercy Muruu said many people do not know their culture. “We found it important to bring them together to learn about different cultures and appreciate each other's culture,” she said. Others who spoke included Gatonye Kithee, who represented the Kikuyu community, Simon Muthoka from the Kamba community, and John Rachiedo (Luo). Edited by A.N