The war of words between Deputy President William Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta has continued with the DP telling the president to carry his own cross, however painful. Ruto defended his track record as the second in command, telling Uhuru to disassociate him from the woes ailing the Jubilee administration. "Kenyans are not foolish to know where we have come from and where we are going. It is absolutely clear that we marked growth during our first term in office," Ruto said. He cited water, electricity, education, health and agriculture as examples of projects they successfully implemented during the first term. The DP spoke on Wednesday during the Kisii County Economic Forum held at Water Park Resort in Bonchari. He said Jubilee's development agenda began falling apart during the second term, when the president sidelined him and started working with Raila Odinga after the handshake in March 2018. "My good friend the President himself is on record telling us that the people who have been working with him, the people he had assigned my responsibilities have failed him," he said. Ruto claimed the Big Four agenda stalled immediately after the handshake and asked Uhuru to direct his anger to his handshake partner. "I want to tell them that they have wasted the people of Kenya but thank God we have the elections a hundred days away so that the country can have credible leadership in place. A leadership that can transform our people's lives," Ruto said. The economic forum was attended by among others, ANC party boss Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. It was chaired by UDA governor aspirant Ezekiel Machogu, his running mate Migosi Ogamba and senatorial aspirant Joash Maangi. Ruto said he had tried his best as the president's deputy prior to Raila's entry into the power matrix. "If the President and his team have failed, they have no moral authority to promise Kenyans anything tangible," he said. Wetang'ula termed the recent outbursts by the president as shameful. "Kenyans did not elect you to be angry on TV. We elected you to ensure there are no fuel queues, we elected you to make sure we have a workable education system," Wetangula said. "We elected you to make sure Kenya is safe and peaceful for its people, and above all we elected you to show dignity to the office Kenyans had bestowed you with." Mudavadi said the ODM leader had no practical blue print that would improve the economy should he be elected president. "He will double taxes further burdening mwananchi, he will increase commodity prices because he has already told us he is out to perpetuate Uhuru's legacy," Mudavadi said. The economic forum was also attended by elected MPs Joseph Onchiri (Bobasi), Ben Momanyi (Nyaribari Masaba), Justine Omwenga (Kitutu Chache South), Japhet Mokaya (Kitutu Chache North) and Duke Mainga (Bomachoge Borabu).