The much awaited Green Park Bus terminus will commence operations in phases starting Tuesday, the Nairobi Metropolitan Services has announced. In a public notice issued on Tuesday, NMS announced that PSVs plying Ngong' road and Argwings Kodhek road will pick and drop passengers at the Green Park terminal as from Tuesday, May 24. “Nairobi Metropolitan Services wishes to inform Public Service Vehicle (PSVs) operators and the general public that the Green Park Bus Terminal will commence operations in phases,” reads the notice. Matatus plying Lang'ata road will start operations at the terminus three days later on May 27. Green Park is among six other termini the NMS is setting up at a cost of Sh350 million. The others include Desai, Park Road, Ladhies-Muthurwa, Fig Tree terminus and Bunyala-Workshop Road. According to NMS, the terminal has a capacity to accommodate 300 to 350 vehicles at any given time and up to 20,000 matatus in a day. Last year, NMS led by Director General Lieutenant General Mohammed Badi conducted at least three test runs to identify challenges and loopholes in the Green Park terminus. The first run carried out on April 27, 2021, was marred with confusion and frustrations. The three-hour test run, which started at 6am, was aimed at observing how matatus will drop off commuters at the terminus. The second one took place on May 28, 2021, in the evening from 3 pm to 6 pm, to observe the picking up of commuters. After the second test, NMS said some adjustments in terms of Covid-19 safety measures and the furniture at the terminus had to be done. The furniture adjustments were to ensure matatus are not damaged while making a U-turns to drop off passengers. Matatu drivers also said traffic was unbearable as they entered the terminus. They urged the NMS to look into ways to shorten the time spent entering and leaving the terminus. The third test run was done on June 17, 2021, and was a whole day affair that ran from 5 am to 9 pm. A month later, it was announced that the bus terminal would open up for business after NMS called for lease applications from the public. Operations at the terminus will mark the the beginning of decongesting the Nairobi's Central Business District (CBD).