The US on Thursday offered a ransom of Sh233 million for information leading to the arrest or conviction of two Kenyans. The two Kenyans, Abdi Hussein Ahmed and Badru Abdul Aziz Saleh, are wanted for trafficking wildlife and narcotics to the US. Aziz and Ahmed are accused of being part of an international organised criminal network that trafficked wildlife from Africa and sought to traffic illicit drugs to the US. They are accused of conspiring to smuggle at least 190 kilos of rhino horn and 10 tonnes of ivory. Acting US Ambassador Eric Kneedler said the rhino horn and ivory were valued at $7 million (Sh800 million) He said the two are major violators of US narcotics and wildlife trafficking laws. The indictment against the two further alleges a conspiracy to distribute approximately 10kgs of heroin. “Eradicating drug and wildlife trafficking are priorities of the Biden administration. We are grateful for the continued partnership of the Government of Kenya to capture and arrest members of these criminal networks,” Kneedler said. The reward is offered by the US (US Department of State, US Fish and Wildlife Service and US Drug Enforcement Administration), with the full support of Kenya National Police Service. The envoy said the US and Kenya will continue to collaborate to combat wildlife and drug trafficking and any other transnational crime affecting both countries. DCI boss George Kinoti urged all actors in the justice system to assist in the arrest and prosecution of the duo. "America has played a great role in facilitating tracking of criminal networks. What we have here today is an example of our integrated approach that is oriented to deal effectively with these criminal networks," he said. Kinoti said the two, with Mansur Mohamed Sahul who was arrested on several occasions between December 2012 and May 2019, are wanted. The DCI boss said the suspects were involved in the transportation, distribution and smuggling of 190 kilos of rhino horn, and 10 tonnes of elephant ivory from different countries in Africa, including Kenya, which they transported to the US. Kinoti said the suspects also transported and distributed one kilo of heroin from Kenya to the US. "On June 14, 2019, the United States Southern District Court of New York indicted the three individuals," he said. "Interpol issued a red notice in respect to Sahul Mansur Mohamed and Ahmed Abdi Hussein, while a warrant of arrest was issued in respect to Saleh Badul." Badul was later arrested at the Busia border by DCI detectives on June 11, 2019. He was arraigned at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport law courts and released on bail. "The suspect was directed to report to detectives every two weeks. However, upon release on bail, he disappeared up to December 2019 when he was last seen," Kinoti said. Individuals with information on the fugitives' whereabouts are asked to contact the Fish and Wildlife Service at +1-844-FWS-TIPS or +1-844-397-8477 or email FWS_TIPS@fws.gov, or the Kenyan Directorate of Criminal Investigations Hotline at +254(0)800722203.  Identities are kept strictly confidential. Edited by A.N