The race to succeed Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet has been joined by businessman Moses Changwony running as  an independent. It's now a three-horse race. Changwony confirmed he had been cleared by the Registrar of Political Parties to vie for the position. “I will be in the race to vie as an independent candidate and shortly my team will be on the ground as we start campaigns,”Changwony said. His entry will lead to a three-horse race between him, Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich and New Vision Party leader Anthony Chelimo who will be running on his party's ticket Changwony is a well known politician in the region having vied during the last election when he lost to Alex Tolgos. Tolgos wants to run for Senate. The county is mainly inhabited by the Keiyo and Marakwet communities and Changwony is from Keiyo South constituency that has the highest number of votes in the county.  Changwony has worked in several private local and international firms. Tolgos is completing his term in August and during his second term he appointed Rotich to be his deputy. The two, however. later had a falling out. In a surprise move two years ago, Rotich declared interest to succeed his boss. Many thought he was a greenhorn. "Am grateful for the great honour bestowed on me by the great people of Elgeyo Marakwet," Rotich said after he received the UDA nomination certificate. He defeated former Police IG Joseph Boinnet and several other aspirants who were seeking the UDA ticket to succeed outgoing Governor Tolgos. Rotich has thanked  residents for their support during the gruelling campaigns. Rotich got more than 42,000 votes while Boinnet came in second with about 32,000 votes. Allies of Boinnet claimed tampering in the exercise but UDA officials said the results were credible and verifiable. Boinnet rejected the nomination results but declined to vie as an independent and the decision has paved way for Changwony to join the race. Others who lost in the UDA primaries included educationist Josphat Sawe, business man Julius Tangus and University don Dr Hellen Jemencho. Rotich was in  the political limelight as he frequently visited Kerio Valley to stand with local communities following increased banditry attacks. The gesture won him votes. The 34-year-old holder of a degree in economics initially worked in banking  before Tolgos appointed him as director of co-operatives in Elgeyo Marakwet and later picked him as deputy governor. The DG will now face a tough battle against the two opponents but analysts says Chaangwong will be the main challenger,considering he had vied before. (Edited by V. Graham)