After a winless run in the London Sevens over the weekend, Shujaa have been pitted against Samoa, Scotland, and England in a tricky Pool in Los Angeles Sevens. For the sixth consecutive tournament, Kenya failed to make it to the Main Cup quarters in London, where they ended their five matches winless. Kenya lost the opening match 17-12 to Ireland, 26-0 to Argentina and 24-21 to South Africa to drop to the classification matches. In the classification matches, they succumbed to France 31-0 to drop to the 13th place playoff s, where they lost 14-5 to Japan. Damian McGrath's charges picked up a solitary point and now sit 13th on the log with 38 points—nervously looking over the shoulder with two teams set to be relegated at the end of the season. Winners of the London Sevens, Australia headline Pool 'A' and have a date with Spain, Argentina and Japan. World champions New Zealand who were runners up in the English capital face South Africa, the USA and Canada in Pool 'B'. Olympic champions Fiji are up against Ireland, France and Wales in a tricky Pool 'C'. Before the Los Angeles Sevens in August, Shujaa will play at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham in July. Assistant coach Kevin Wambua said they have one and a half months before the Club Games and believes they have adequate time to polish up and build on confidence in the team. “It's been a tough season but we have a window of six weeks to work on several aspects of our game with the new management. We want to be competitive come the Commonwealth Games as well as the World Cup in South Africa,” added Wambua. The Mwamba coach said there were marginal improvements, especially in the matches against South Africa and Ireland. "We were very competitive in the two games but going forward, we need to be consistent in all matches and ensure we qualify for the Main cup quarters. The team were expected to jet into the country last night and will have a mandatory seven-day resting period before resuming training on June 6. Standings: South Africa 124, Australia 122,  Argentina 118, Fiji 104, Ireland 92, USA 84, France 81, England 70, New Zealand 58, and Samoa 56.