A Kenya Kwanza sibling rivalry between ANC and UDA is threatening to wipe out gains made by the alliance in Kakamega. Mumias East parliamentary aspirant on ANC David Wamatsi threatened to mobilise supporters to vote for Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition presidential aspirant Raila Odinga if UDA continues campaigning against him. At a campaign rally in Shianda market on Tuesday, Wamatsi said MP Ben Washiali and Senate aspirant Boni Khalwale should stop campaigning for  his UDA rival David Mapwoni. “They should allow Malala to campaign for me as they campaign for Mapwoni. If they continue fighting Malala because of me, I will ask all my supporters to vote for Raila,” Wamatsi said. “We are in this alliance together and we have ceded a lot of ground as a party. We don’t have a presidential candidate or running mate in this alliance. We’ll not continue sitting as our partners try to take away the little we have.” He said Washiali and Khalwale threatened Malala with withdrawing their support for his governor bid if he campaigns for him. Washiali is part of the lead campaign team for Kenya Kwanza in Western alongside Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. Malala said Washiali should stop campaigning openly for UDA aspirant against others in the alliance. He said those seeking top county seats should allow the parliamentary and ward aspirants compete against each other without interference. “I want to be governor and Khalwalwe wants senator. We will lobby to ensure Washiali is named to the cabinet. But if they don't stop openly campaigning for their aspirants, I will also hold Wamatsi’s hand and campaign for him,” he said. ODM’s Lukas Radoli and Peter Salasya of Democratic Action Party of Kenya are also in the race to succeed Washiali. Washiali has declared he will not defend the set after serving for three consecutive terms as MP. He has however not announced his next political move. Washiali and Khalwale could not be reached for comment as their cell phones went unanswered. They neither responded to text messages.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)