Kakamega governor aspirant Cleophas Malala has promised to pay lunches for all day secondary school learners if elected in August. Malala said although there is free secondary education, parents are still asked to pay huge amounts of money to cater for food. Speaking at Eshisiru market in Lurambi constituency on Sunday, Malala said asking for money from parentsfor the feeding programme defeats the purpose of free education. “We have had cases where some learners have dropped out of school just because their parents are poor and cannot afford to pay for lunch," Malala said. "This means that government capitation goes to waste because these students drop out of school because it will be inhumane to watch other eat." Government pays Sh22, 000 capitation for every student in secondary schools. Parents, however, have to meet the cost of meals for those in day schools which stands at Sh10, 000. Malala said his administration will also construct ECDE centres and hire more teachers to ensure children learn closer to their homes. He said he will also introduce a feeding programme for all ECDE learners. The county has prepared a scheme of service for ECDE teachers and starting July this year, the tutors will serve on permanent and pensionable terms. The governor hopeful also pledge to prioritise provision of piped water to every homestead. This, he said, will reduce the medical bills incurred as a result of water born diseases. “Women spend a lot of time ferrying water from rivers, some which far away. Once I become governor, I will ensure they use most of their time doing business by providing water at their door steps,” he said. Malala was accompanied by his running mate Beatrice Inyangala, ANC woman rep aspirant Connie Lusweti and UDA senate aspirant Boni Khalwale. Malala said his administration will establish a Sh5 million revolving fund to provide affordable credit to women and youths to do business. “I will not stifle county resources but I will ensure every corner receives development and balanced employment opportunities,” he said. He said his administration will pay healthcare premiums for elderly and children under ten under the National Hospital Insurance Fund. Malala is set to battle it out with ODM’s Fernandez Barasa, Democratic Action Party’s Ayub Savula, Cyrus Jirongo (UDP) and Samuel Omukoko (Maendeleo Democratic Party). (Edited by Tabnacha O)