ODM leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday maintained his government will revive the push for more funding to the counties through BBI if elected. Raila said the intention of the planned constitutional amendment was to have devolution strengthened from its current form. “We wanted to have allocation coming to the counties increased from 15 to 35 per cent but some people, those in tanga tanga opposed it,” he said. Raila spoke in Tana River on Wednesday as he led the Azimo la Umoja One Kenya team in Coast region. The Azimio presidential candidate said for a long time the county had lagged behind on development. This, he pointed out, was due to the ‘bad’ leadership that was in place since independence. “The birth of devolution faced many hurdles and strong opposition from people who wanted to continue having resources remain at the national government but we fought hard for it,” he said. He said the sessional paper number 10 of 1965 created a policy that saw the government starve counties like Tana River and others of deserved resources. Raila also took credit for the passing of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, saying despite resistance from some quarters it was successful. Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua said Raila is going to ensure equitable sharing of the national cake among all counties without discrimination. “Raila is a servant leader, I was with him in the fight for the second liberation and for the 2010 Constitution,” Karua said She praised Raila saying he sacrificed a lot for the country despite losing in elections. Poking holes into Deputy President William Ruto’s bottom up economic model, Raila termed it unrealistic and a pipe dream. “There is a difference between us and Kenya Kwanza, they are just yapping telling us bottom and up but there is nothing in it,” he said. The presidential hopeful, who was accompanied by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Karua and Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege said he will endeavour to unite Kenyans. “The Kenya that we want to build is that which brings everyone together regardless of ethnic group, gender, race or religion… there is nothing like Kenya moja as our competitors are preaching, we don't have two nations but one,” he said. He, however, stayed clear of commenting on the recent unfolding in Azimio. “We are ready to take on our opponents and my army is ready, the little fights in our house is like a friendly match," he said. Joho and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed claimed the Kenya Kwanza camp was full of thieves and corrupt individuals. “They have now joined hands with the man from Kilifi who has impoverished his people yet he has been a governor for 10 years,” Junet said. He said the upcoming election will be between “someone who has fought hard for the interests of Kenyans and a thief who is known to steal from Kenyans.” Taking a jibe at Ruto, Joho said his recent statement that he is going restore the normal port operations in Mombasa betrays him since he objected it before. “He came to Mombasa and insulted me that I am uneducated when I cried about port services, he is not genuine at all,” he said. “I am strong follower of Raila and we are not requesting, immediately he is elected president normal operations at Mombasa and Lamu ports will resume.” Chege said Central Kenya was going to rally behind Raila since the handshake has proved he is the only person who can unite all Kenyans without discriminating against anyone. “We have never worked with Raila but we have worked with the other one and we have realised he is the only one who can unite this country,” Chege said. Tana River Governor Dado Godana was also endorsed by the elders during the event. (Edited by Tabnacha O)