The Kirinyaga government on Tuesday opened a health facility in Ngang’a village, Mwea constituency. The opening of Umoja Dispensary by Governor Anne Waiguru was a relief for residents who have been travelling long distances in search of healthcare services. The dispensary will serve about 4,500 residents of Ngang’a, Umoja, Mbingo-ini and Kiandegwa villages. Residents have been travelling more than five kilometres to get to the nearest public health facilities such as Rurii-Kiandegwa dispensary, and Mutithi and Ciagini health centres. Waiguru said the completion of the facility marks a great milestone in her quest for improved primary healthcare in the county. “We have been simultaneously undertaking the completion and equipping of 20 dispensary projects and Umoja is one of the six that we have recently operationalised. The rest are being lined up for launch in the next two months,” she said. Waiguru said residents will no longer waste time and money in search of healthcare services. She said residents will access outpatient services, antenatal and postnatal services, mother and child healthcare, pharmacy and laboratory services. “They will also get early detection of ailments that may require further investigation and treatment for which they can be referred to advanced facilities in a timely manner,” she said. Waiguru said with good primary healthcare at the dispensaries, there will be less congestion in other hospitals that can handle more complex health matters. The governor said her administration has invested heavily in infrastructural development and equipping of various health facilities. She cited Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital complex, which will soon open its doors to residents. The complex has 342 beds, an ICU, a HDU and an oncology ward. Other amenities include emergency and casualty department, maternity wing, modern surgical theatres, paediatric, surgical and medical wards, palliative care unit and a pharmacy. It also has an oxygen plant from which oxygen will be piped to all the beds. The county government is also upgrading Kianyaga and Kimbimbi hospitals from level 3 to level 4 facilities. Edited by A.N