Former IEBC chairman Ahmed Issack Hassan and vice chairperson Lillian Mahiri-Zaja are among 105 candidates shortlisted by the Judicial Service Commission to be interviewed for the position of judge. JSC is seeking to recruit six judges to the Court of Appeal and another 20 to the High Court. Hassan is among 31 candidates shortlisted for the Court of Appeal job while Mahiri-Zaja will face the interview panel for the High Court judge position. She had sent applications for both positions but the selection panel only shortlisted her for the lower court. The two were at the helm of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission between 2011 and 2016 when their term was abruptly ended after they gave in to pressure to quit. The then opposition chief Raila Odinga had led continuous protests against Hassan and his team at the electoral agency, saying they were not fit to oversee the 2017 general election. Former Fida executive director Patricia Nyaundi who also served as the CEO of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission has also been shortlisted. Other notable names shortlisted for interviews include former National Gender Equality Commission chairperson Winfred Lichuma and Dorcas Oduor, who is the deputy Director of Public Prosecution and head of economic, international and emerging crimes at the office of the DPP. Lichuma has been shortlisted for the position of High Court judge while Oduor applied for both High Court and Court of Appeal positions. She has been shortlisted for both. High Court judge Jairus Ngaah, who was part of the bench of five judges who declared the BBI push null and void, has also been shortlisted. President Uhuru Kenyatta has since declined to appoint his colleagues on that bench Joel Ngugi and George Odunga who had earlier been recommended for promotion to the Court of Appeal. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Nduma Nderi, who was last year interviewed for the Supreme Court job, has also been shortlisted. The list of the 31 candidates shortlisted for the appellate court jobs is dominated by judges currently serving in the High Court. They include  Nelson Abuodha, Lydia Achode, Abida Ali Aroni, Bernard Mweresa, Cecilia Githua, Luka Kimaru, Alfred Mabeya, Onesmus Makau, John Mativo, Christine Meoli, Florence Michemi, William Musyoka and Stephen Radido Others are Eric Ogola, Joseph Sergon, Fredrick Ochieng, Grace Wangui, Odhiambo Okongo, Hedwing Ongúdi and Francis Gikonyo, Chiuri Ngugi, Paul Mwaniki, Ndegwa Wamuti, Desderio Nyamu, Onyango Jane, Sifuna Wanyama and Beauttah Alukhava. JSC advertised the positions on March 14, attracting 334 applications. Interviews will be conducted between June 20 and August 24. “The interviews will be conducted at the Judicial Service commission office boardroom at Reinsurance Plaza, podium floor in Nairobi,” JSC secretary Anne Amadi said in the notice. JSC asked the public to submit any details about the candidates that may be of interest to the commission. “Members of the public are invited to avail in writing any information of interest in respect to any of the shortlisted candidates,” the notice said. “The commission may interview any member of the public who has submitted any information of interest in respect of any shortlisted candidate and such information will be kept confidential.” Some 104 candidates have been shortlisted for the High Court judge positions with the names of serving magistrates dominating. Among the notable names is that of Kibera senior principal magistrate Derrick Kuto who is also the president of the Kenya Judges and Magistrates Association. Others include magistrates Francis Andayi, Heston Nyaga, Kenneth Cheruiyot, Patricia Gichohi, Elizabeth Juma, Wendy Kagendo, Susan Shitubi, Douglas Ogoti and former JSC member Emily Ominde.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris