Ordinarily, one would expect the 5-day long break from work, occasioned by three holidays and a weekend in between, to be a perfect opportunity for many to visit upcountry or go on vacation. But this has not been the case for many Nairobians. The City's Central Business District ( CBD) has remained congested with commuters and hawkers flocking to the streets. The Government had declared last Friday a holiday in honour of late President Mwai Kibaki whose funeral service took place the same day at Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi. Sunday being Labour Day, Monday automatically became a resting day. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i gazetted ( Tuesday) as a public holiday in honour of Muslims' Eid-ul-Fitr celebrations. This meant that those who left work on Thursday were required to get back to the office on Wednesday, a whopping five consecutive days of rest. Surprisingly, Nairobi's CBD has been a beehive of activities; a clear departure from one's expectations. From electronic shops to mini-malls, supermarkets and even eateries, most remained open with customers flocking in. Hawkers, who have been christened ‘CBD owners’, were visibly selling their merchandise as usual along the pedestrian footpaths and roadsides. Some said they would rather use the long holiday to make an extra shilling rather than sit back at home and stay idle. Most of them took advantage of the back to school period and displayed stationery items like biro pens, rulers and also school uniforms and socks. Others, mostly women, sold the traffic fresh farm produce like tomatoes, onions, potatoes, cabbages, and fruits while youths focused on ‘ mitumba’ and second-hand clothes. The fresh produce sellers who have turned Haile Selassie into a selling zone were also spotted along the avenue conducting business. “Business has been usual for me. I have been here since Friday selling my potatoes and tomatoes because I have a family to feed and school fees to pay. If I rest with other Kenyans, who will pay those bills?" posed, John Omulo, trader. Mary Kerubo on her part said: “If I don't sell the cabbages, carrots to mama mboga just because of a long holiday, what will be eaten At the end of the day I’m getting money for myself and also feeding other people". For parents with students in school, it was a rush against time as they crowded  CBD shops to purchase school items in preparation for form one admission. Following the gazettement of Tuesday as a public holiday, Cabinet Secretary for Education George Magoha changed the form one reporting date from Tuesday, May 3 to Wednesday, May 4. A spot check by the Star over the last four days reveals that hundreds of parents moved from one shop to another, uptown and downtown to buy stationery for their children. Some parents said they had done most of their shopping last week to avoid the last-minute rush. Others said they were forced to dig deeper into their pockets given that prices had gone up since the rest of the students had reported to school last week for the first term of the 2022 education calendar. "Shopping costs are far much higher than expected. Form one entry being the beginning of secondary education is very demanding. You can imagine how much we have spent,’ Erica Mbeke, parent, said. Allan Mulei, who was at Moi Avenue’s Uniform distributors shop, complained that the cost of uniforms had gone up. "Cost of uniforms has increased and you can imagine form one students need like three pairs to be admitted," he stated. Public Service Vehicles operators were also operating as usual with business booming over the long weekend. Commuters travelling from Nairobi to different parts of the country were packed at various bus stages within the CBD. A similar scenario is expected to be seen on Tuesday and Wednesday as people who travelled out of the county come back. During the same period, parents will be taking their children to school for Form one admission.