The three frontrunners in the Baringo governor’s race have named their running mates - all from Baringo Central, home of former President Moi. Governor Stanley Kiptis will defend his seat as independent candidate after losing the United Democratic Alliance nomination in April 14 to his predecessor Benjamin Cheboi who garnered 45,666 votes. Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet, who is also seeking the seat as an independent, came second during UDA nomination with 30,588 votes. Kiptis was third with 25,976 votes. Cheboi, 64, unveiled his running mate, Charles Kipng’ok, 65, on Friday. “I have done extensive consultation, research and listened to many voices of people who said Kipng’ok is the best person to help me actualise my dream to deliver for the people of Baringo,” Cheboi said. He termed the former general manager at Kenya Tea Development Authority is a seasoned leader who would help boost his plan to spur the county’s industrial and production strategy. However, some residents criticised Cheboi’s choice saying although he stands a better chance of winning the August 9 election, he should have selected a youthful running mate. His supporters say he has made the right choice. “I took it upon myself to choose someone whom I can trust to work with and cannot fight or sabotage me along the way,” he said. Cheboi said he had a long list of people to choose from to deputise him but at last he settled on Kipng'ok from the remote Emom village in Tenges, Baringo Central subcounty. Governor Kiptis, 56, picked 45-year-old Certified Public Accountant Richard Koech, who dropped his gubernatorial bid on Chama Cha Mashinani party. Kiptis dropped his deputy Jacob Chepkwony. “Choosing a running mate isn’t an easy task. I had seven options and I finally settled on Koech,” Kiptis said. Koech was born, raised and schooled in the Lelbatai village in Baringo Central subcounty before joining Kabarak High School. “I engaged Chepkwony on a five-year renewable contract and definitely we did a lot with him. It is politics and let us just leave everything to God, he knows why,” Kiptis said. He spoke when he introduced Koech as his new running mate at his residence in Kabarnet town on Saturday, with the slogan, “There is no need of changing leadership when things can be corrected.” Efforts to reach Chepkwony for a comment after he was being withdrawn from office were futile as he did not answer phone calls or reply to text messages. Kiptis said he had learned his mistake of slowed development and hoped Koech, as a qualified youthful professional, will help boost his development agenda. “I considered dropping and postponing my bid until further notice and join hands with Governor Kiptis to better the lives of Baringo people, and in the process I will gain more leadership experience,” Koech said. He resigned early this year as the clerk of Baringo county assembly to join politics. He served in the previous Cheboi administration as the chief officer for Finance and Health. He also served as Finance executive for West Pokot county. Some residents said Koech made the wrong choice as he was better placed and qualified to run for the gubernatorial seat rather than deputise Kiptis. Lessonet chose 2017 gubernatorial aspirant and retired Kenya School of Government Kabarnet campus director Isaac Chebon. He is from Salawa village in Baringo Central. The aspirants jostling for the county’s top seat placed health, food security, water and improving the economy as their priorities if elected. Baringo has 232, 258 registered voters in the six constituencies according to the 2017 Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission register. Eldama Ravine leads with 54,742 voters, Baringo North (42,774), Baringo Central (38,388), Baringo South (35,162), Mogotio (32,276) and Tiaty (28, 916). Edited by Henry Makori