Former Kitui Governor Julius Malombe has relaunched his campaigns in a bid to recapture the seat he lost to Governor Charity Ngilu in 2017. Malombe re-activated his campaigns on Friday a day after the political party disputes tribunal declared him validly nominated by Wiper party for the August 9 election. Former Kenya’s High Commissioner to Uganda Kiema Kilonzo who was seeking the Wiper ticket to run for Kitui governorship, moved to the tribunal after the party gave Malombe a direct ticket. According to a press statement from Malombe’s media team on Sunday, after Kilonzo’s petition was thrown out on last Thursday, Malombe immediately jump-started his campaigns on Friday. “He held a successful meeting with his village and ward level 2022 campaign coordinators thus laid the ground for the continuation of his gubernatorial campaigns as the election date approaches,” the press release said. The meeting brought together Malombe’s coordinators from each of Kitui’s 40 wards and 257 villages. Malombe gave a comprehensive update of his campaign status. “Malombe is proceeding with the next phase of his campaign to deliver Kitui from the bondage of poor leadership. He has pledged steward leadership and development guaranteed leadership once he takes over,” the press release said. The statement said Malombe his hinging his campaign on offering transformative, inclusive, equitable, consultative, participatory and steward leadership, which is development guaranteed. But even as resumes he his campaigns following the lull caused by Kilonzo’s suit, Kilonzo is at it again declaring an alutta continua. He has vowed to move to the High Court to ensure Malombe’s nomination is nullified. “Following the verdict given by the political party dispute tribunal, we wish to categorically state that we respect the decision. However, we don't agree with it because the rationale given doesn't hold water in any legal sphere,” Kilonzo said in a message. Kilonzo’s campaign secretariat asked his supporters to remain calm as they would be updated on our next legal action to be taken. The secretariat also thanked the supporters for their continued support. It further urged Kilonzo’s die-hards not to relent on their mission of "Okoa Kitui.” (Edited by Bilha Makokha)