Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has been cleared by the IEBC to vie for the Teso South MP seat. Ojaamong was cleared by Teso South IEBC boss Carol Okki on Monday. By the time of going to press, Ojaamong was the only governor in the country who had been cleared to contest for a parliamentary seat. “We have a big agenda that involves helping our people. We want economic liberation for them. I want to fight for the people of Teso South,” Ojaamong said. “I am hopeful the campaigns will be peaceful. Whoever will win in this contest should be supported by all the people in Teso South and should have a good agenda for the people.” If he succeeds in his quest to return to Parliament, this will be his third stint. He was elected to Parliament for the first time in 2002 when he represented Amagoro constituency. He was elected after defeating former Nation Media Group chief executive officer Albert Ekirapa who was MP between 1997 and 2002 on the Kanu ticket. Ojaamong successfully defended the seat in 2007 on the ODM ticket before being elected the first Busia governor in 2013. He defended the governor seat when he trounced former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma. Governors can only serve for two terms. “To my competitors, let us engage in peaceful campaigns and give Teso South the best leadership,” he said. Ojaamong will battle it out with incumbent Geoffrey Omuse (Independent) and former MP Mary Emase (UDA). Emase served as Teso South MP between 2013 and 2017 before she was trounced by Omuse, who was elected in 2017 on the ODM ticket. Omuse parted ways with ODM this year. Emase and Omuse will present themselves to the IEBC on Tuesday for clearance. Millicent Ekasiba (Maendeleo Chap Chap) is also in the race. In Teso North, the IEBC  has already cleared four candidates. They are incumbent MP Oku Kaunya (ODM), Lawi Mamai (DAP-K), Fred Papa (Wiper) and Samson Owino. They were cleared by constituency returning officer Andrew Wetende. Others expected to present themselves to the IEBC subcounty offices for clearance include John Imoite (UDA), Charles Aramaina and Cornelius Omuse, both independent. Mamai and Owino were cleared on Sunday, while Kaunya and Papa were cleared on Monday.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris