IEBC has disqualified 11 politicians from contesting in the August 9 presidential race after they failed to submit the names of their running mates before the May 16 deadline. They include ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Lengala David William of Jirani Mzalendo party. Eight Independent aspirants have also been disqualified. They are Mbugua Benson Mwaura, Kihuha Esther Waringa, Aoko Benard Ongir, Odhiambo Kevin Onyango, Ndekerere Joseph Kundu, Ngechu Moses Gichuki, Katoni Benjamin Kevin Ndambuki and Nyagoko Jacob Oanda. Speaking during a consultative meeting with presidential aspirants and their representatives on Monday, IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati said they are working with deadlines. Chebukati said Mudavadi and Muturi were disqualified as they had earlier submitted their details to the electoral body before supporting Deputy President William Ruto's candidature. All presidential aspirants were required to submit the names of their running mates before the May 16 deadline to enable the commission prepare adequately for the polls. Chebukati said they will not allow the candidates to submit the names of their running mates with less than three months to the polls. He said they are now at the verification stage where all presidential hopefuls must submit 2,000 signatures from supporters in at least 24 counties before being cleared to contest. “Once the commission finishes the verification of the supporters, where there is a shortfall of signatures in numbers, the aspirants will be given reasonable time to get the remaining signatures. “If the deadline lapses before they submit the signatures, they will also be disqualified from contesting," Chebukati explained. The electoral agency had directed the presidential aspirants to submit to the commission 2,000 signatures of registered voters, who have backed their bids to run for the high office by Monday, May 23. The signatures had to be accompanied by the names of the supporters, their signatures and a copy of identity cards or passport numbers. IEBC had last week said that a total of 55 presidential aspirants beat the May 16, 2022, deadline for submitting their names and that of their running mates. Chebukati said the candidates include one coalition party aspirant, 14 political party aspirants and 40 independent candidate aspirants.