The University of Embu has scooped the best performing public university status for two years in a row. It is also scored 1.9290 enough to be named the overall runners-up after the National Irrigation Board, which emerged the best performing state corporation in the 2020-2021 financial year with a score of 1.8890. According to the 2020-21 financial year evaluations report, the university's achievements were attained through excellent financial stewardship and discipline. Also measured were service delivery, core mandate, implementation of presidential directives, promotion of local content and cross-cutting. The institution was ranked overall best performing state corporation in the 2019-2020 financial year and has since proved a performance-oriented status for the university. University Education and Research PS Simon Nabukwesi applauded the institution for its continued infrastructural development, which has among other developments geared the university towards the milestones. Nabukwesi spoke on Friday during a courtesy visit to the institution. "I want to thank this university for the prudence in managing resources including savings. This has enabled them to set up lecture theatres as a separate project, to complement what the government is offering for infrastructure development," he said. The University of Embu has set up solar panels, which saves up to Sh120,000 per month in electricity bills. These savings have contributed to setting up lecture theatres with a capacity of 600 learners. Nabukwesi futher said the university has a rapid increase in population of 4,000 learners annually and the state should increase funding for additional tuition blocks and other amenities. University of Embu VC Daniel Mugendi acknowledged the institution fraternity for their contribution towards the grand achievement for the second time in a row. "This achievement is a significant indicator of our emphasis on quality, teamwork, and the unwavering focus on the realisation of our vision to be a dynamic epicenter of excellence in training and research for service to humanity," he said. Tharaka University College ranked second, the University of Nairobi third, followed by Chuka University and South Eastern Kenya University all scoring excellent rankings. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)