Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has released an itinerary for a three-day Azimio la Umoja -One Kenya Alliance campaign tour of the Coast. The itinerary indicates that Kalonzo will be accompanied on the Ukambani-Mombasa campaign tour by KANU party leader Gideon Moi on Thursday to woo the Coalition supporters before the August 9 polls. "We are going to do a run on the Mombasa highway beginning from Mlolongo tomorrow at 9.00 am," Kalonzo said. From Mlolongo, the team will campaign at Makutano Chumbi, a junction of Machakos road and Mombasa road. The team will then move to mobilize voters at Konza City before proceeding to towns along Sultan Hamud road, including Salama, Sultan Hamud, Emali and Makindu. The tour will proceed to Kiunduani area, which is between Makindu and Kibwezi subcounties in Makueni County. The former vice president, however, said that the team will not have enough time to take their campaigns to Kibwezi. "Time allowing we could even detour to Kibwezi but there is not enough time. We will do Mashinari, Kambu, Mtito Andei and stopover in Voi," he said. The Azimio-OKA team will then be joined by Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo and the Taita Taveta Coalition team at Voi. On Friday, the coalition members are expecting to tour Mombasa. "We hope to get to Mombasa in the late afternoon," Kalonzo added. The Ukambani kingpin has invited the coalition leaders and Ukambani governor aspirants to join the campaign caravan. "All candidates particularly those with the Wiper tickets are welcome to join us. We will be drumming support for our presidential candidate Raila Odinga." Kalonzo further said that Mombasa governor aspirant Mike Sonko will join them. "It will be like a grand entry of Sonko into Mombasa. We will catch up with his running mate Ali Mbogo in Voi." The Wiper boss added that the team might end up in Tononoka but that has not been confirmed. "We must do things differently in order to deliver a big win for Azimio-OKA," he said. The tour comes days after Raila's Nyeri tour on Saturday.