The Bungoma governor race is shaping up to be a rematch between incumbent Wycliffe Wangamati and his predecessor Kenneth Lusaka. Wangamati is Azimio coalition candidate while Lusaka is in the Kenya Kwanza brigade. In 2017, Wangamati, who was in Nasa, defeated Lusaka, the Jubilee point man in the region. While different opinion polls have put Lusaka ahead, Wangamati has been rolling up several programmes that are seen as direct baits to electorates in the region. Wangamati recently launched a scholarship programme for those who had performed well in the KCPE exams. The programme has received accolades and criticism in equal measure. Wangamati said the programme has touched families across the county. “Education is an equaliser and the students I started with have completed their secondary school education with most of them scoring As,” he said. Wangamati said he was better placed to run the programme because it was his brainchild. However, Lusaka said the policy that birthed the scholarship was drafted by his government when he was the governor. “It will be better and ensure the needy and average students also benefit,” Lusaka said. Lusaka enjoys significant support from Mt Elgon, Tongaren, Kimilili, Webuye East and West and Kabuchai where Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula comes from. Wangamati enjoys support from Bumula and Sirisia. Kanduyi constituency, where Bungoma town is located, is considered a battleground with all candidates enjoying almost equal support. Wangamati said he will ride on his flagship projects. They are the Musikoma-Kanduyi dual carriageway, the renovation of the Masinde Muliro Stadium and the construction of a 300-bed capacity pediatric wing. “We will be seeking re-election on account of what we have done as compared to what they did while in office, it is a world apart,” Wangamati said. While acknowledging they were good projects, Lusaka has castigated the move to have all the flagship projects in one ward. “The essence of devolution was to develop villages but lumping all projects in one ward doesn't make any sense,” he said. The choices of deputy governors seem to also affect the voting patterns. While Wangamati chose to replace his deputy Charles Ngome Kibanani with Sitati Nangalama from Kimilili, Lusaka opted for Jennifer Mbatiany a renowned gender rights activist and anti-FGM crusader. Wangamati is going to an election after partying ways with Wetang'ula who has since partnered with Lusaka. Wangamati and Wetang'ula parted ways when the former was involved in a failed coup in the Ford Kenya party that sought to oust Wetang'ula. Wangamati then moved together with others to the DAP-K party. Political commentators have however said the Bungoma politics will be a battle beyond Lusaka and Wangamati with other forces taking centre stage “Wetang'ula he will be seeking to affirm his grip not only in Bungoma politics but at the national arena after falling out with Raila and teaming up with Ruto,” Isaac Wanjekeche said. He said the Ford Kenya coup plotters are seeking to push Wetang'ula aside and prove they are new kids on the block and increase their bargaining stakes at the national level. The Bungoma governor race has also attracted businessman Zacharia Barasa who is vying on a UDP ticket. Barasa was initially in UDA but moved to Azimio affiliated UDP after he was implored by Deputy President William Ruto to step down for Lusaka who is the sole Kenya Kwanza governor candidate.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris