ODM Kisumu senate nominee Tom Ojienda has called on voters in the county to ensure they vote Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga to the last man on August 9 polls. Ojienda, a senior counsel while drumming up support for Raila's and his bid, said voters should be consolidated in one basket to clinch the presidency. He said the support for Raila in Kisumu and Nyanza at large was undisputed and rallied voters to unite and embark on grassroots mobilisation from the ward to the county level. "We must all work together and consolidate support at Raila's backyard for him to win the presidency with a landslide victory," Ojienda said He termed Raila and Narc Kenya Martha Karua as transformative reformists who are capable of bringing good governance that Kenyans have been yearning for many years. Ojienda spoke during the burial of Lawrence Juma Musa, father of a businessman William Odhiambo alias patron at Manyatta, Kisumu Central on Saturday. Present at the burial were Kisumu Central MP Fred Ouda, Market Milimani MCA Seth Ochieng, businessman Ochola Kamili and a host of ODM nominees. Ojienda noted that Raila and Karua are the most experienced and qualified leaders to liberate Kenyans from the high cost of living. Raila, through his international connections, he said will be able to fulfil his presidential plan. He, however, urged politicians to put aside their differences and focus on Raila's bid saying he was the most favourite candidate for the top county's job. "We should not allow our differences to affect our presidential sole goal. Raila's bid outweighs other ambitions. Let us remain steadfast and committed to our goal of winning the presidency," Ojienda said. The senate aspirant lauded Raila for picking Karua as his running mate for the August general election saying she has tremendously boosted Azimio's popularity in Central Kenya. "She's lit fire on Mount Kenya through a series of vigorous campaigns to woo voters for their bid," Ojiende pointed out. On his part, Ouda called on voters to support his re-election bid on an independent ticket. Ouda opposed the six-piece voting calls saying the people of Kisumu Central should be allowed to elect leaders of their choice. "Let all the aspirants face the electorates to give them a fair playground for their supporters to vote for them. It will ensure right and development leaders are elected," he said. Ouda had disputed ODM nominations results after he was trounced by businessman Dr Joshua Oron. He claimed that he won the nominations and was denied victory. The lawmaker's appeal before the ODM appeal tribunal was dismissed and decided to defend his seat on an independent ticket. Ochola also echoed Ouda's sentiments saying voters should be given the opportunity to exercise their democratic right by electing leaders they want. "Raila vote in Nairobi and among the candidates he will vote for in the position of governor and other seats are not vying on ODM," he said. "So he is not going to vote six-piece and it is therefore not in order to force people to vote for six-piece yet our undisputed presidential aspirant will not vote the six-piece." He, however, called on all aspirants in the Nyanza region to mobilise votes for Raila's bid.