UDA officials in Kirinyaga county have decried harassment of aspirants and members by state operatives. The party, through county coordinator Maina Kihia, accused the government of political witch-hunt by using its machinery to harass the officials through phone calls, summonses, arrests and orchestrating trumped-up charges. Kihia said 10 county UDA officials and aspirants were harassed and others arrested on Monday night. Speaking on Tuesday evening, he said those arrested were accused of planning chaos during Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua’s homecoming. Among those arrested was county assembly majority leader and UDA senator aspirant James Kamau Murango. He was on Tuesday charged in a Mombasa court with corruption and forgery allegedly committed during a tendering process at the Port of Mombasa in 2020. “We are condemning these acts being meted out to our party officials and leaders. The arrests are ways of intimidating and silencing us, but we shall remain unbowed. We shall stand strong until the very end because we believe that Jubilee’s time is up,” Kihia said. He said Kirinyaga and the entire Mt Kenya region will remain in UDA, and it is meaningless to continue intimidating party officials. “If they believe Karua has a rich legacy of fighting for the broadening of the democratic space, then it’s ironical to arrest and threaten our members for associating with a different political party,” Kihia said. UDA’s Kirinyaga Central coordinator Bosco Gichangi said he was arrested on Monday night after failing to appear at the Kerugoya DCI office where he had earlier been summoned. Gichangi, who claims to have been released on Tuesday evening, said he was arrested on allegations of incitement and organising goons to shout down Karua and disrupt her rally. “I was summoned by the Kirinyaga Central DCI through a phone call but delayed in appearing because I had some errands to run. It was not until 10pm that I was ambushed in my house by some police officers who arrested me and took me into custody in Kerugoya,” he said. Gichangi said he was released after insisting he be taken to court. “They said they can’t release me until they receive orders from above. It was then that I insisted that I should be arraigned in court but they declined. Later on, they let me go after claiming to have received orders from a senior person,” he said. Gichangi said it is too late to change the will of the people into re-electing Jubilee through Azimio la Umoja. “Mt Kenya region residents have refused a group of few selfish leaders to micromanage their politics by forcing us to vote for their preferred candidates. People have made their decision to elect Deputy President William Ruto as president and Anne Waiguru as Kirinyaga governor.” Mutithi MCA aspirant Njinaro Njamumo said they will not be cowed into changing their stance on UDA but will intensify their campaigns to get as many UDA elected members as possible. Earlier on Tuesday, Waiguru on her Facebook page condemned the arrests. “I strongly condemn last evening’s arbitrary arrests of UDA aspirants and supporters perpetrated by the state in a futile attempt to make them support Azimio," the post read. "No amount of intimidation or blackmail will change the fact that #KirinyagaNiUDA. Even Martha’s entry can’t and won’t make Azimio's entry in Kirinyaga any easy.” Edited by A.N