The driver’s quick response saved the lives of over 40 passengers after the Guardian Angel bus th burst into flames in Kisumu on Monday. The Nairobi-Busia bound bus burnt after one of the rare tyres exploded at Buoye area along the Kisumu-Nairobi highway. The passengers who were onboard escaped unhurt during the 5.45am incident. County police commander Alphonce Kimathi said the driver swift action of pulling the bus out of the road and alerting passengers saved many lives. “The passengers moved out quickly before the bus caught fire,” Kimathi said. He said the driver and his team with the help of passengers managed to remove some of the luggage from the bus. Some luggage were burnt during the incident. The wreckage was towed to Kasagam police station in Kisumu East subcounty. The cause of the fire has not been established. Preliminary information indicates that the rare tyre of the bus exploded. However, according to the driver Samuel Nyamuthe he sensed great danger when he pulled the bus from the road after the tyre burst. "When I went to check the tyre I realised there was fire and immediately alerted the passengers to move out and they were safely rescued," he said. Nyamuthe, who hails from Asumbi in Homa Bay, said the passengers were later transferred to another bus to Busia. He said the journey was very good all the way from Nairobi before the incident. Kimathi said no casualties were reported as officers and firefighters rushed to the scene to contain the situation. "There are no injuries and officers are on the ground," Kimathi said. The police boss noted that the fighters successfully battled the fire. Passengers who were evacuated safely stood along the road in shock as they watched firefighters trying to put out the fire. Residents who milled around the scene were kept at a distance by the officers. The passengers later proceeded with their journey after they were picked by another bus. Kimathi said they have launched an investigation into the incident to establish the real cause of the fire. Eye witnesses said the fire started after a tyre burst at Kona Buoye. “We were shocked by the accident. When we rushed to the scene we found the bus had a tyre burst before catching fire,” an eye witness said. Former Kisumu MCA Lydia Odhiambo, who resides in the area, said she had a tyre burst at around 4am. “The sound was very loud but little did I know that it was an accident,” she said. Odhiambo said Buoye area is known for accidents and called on the government to consider erecting speed bumps. “In the past, we had so many accidents and residents here can testify to that. It is a blackspot and bumps should be erected here to save lives,” she said. About two days ago, Odhiambo said there was an accident involving an ambulance and a saloon car at the same spot. (Edited by Tabnacha O)