Tiger Woods played a nine-hole practice round Sunday afternoon at Southern Hills Country Club in Tulsa, Okla, ahead of this week's PGA Championship. The 15-time major winner told reporters on-site that he felt his surgically repaired leg and foot were feeling stronger than when he played the Masters a month ago. "I've gotten a lot stronger since the Masters," Woods told reporters. "We went back to work on Tuesday (after the Masters). Monday was awful. I did nothing and Tuesday was leg day. So, we went right back after it. "We started ramping up a week or so ago, played a little bit more golf, and it was good. Everything is better." After a gruesome one-car accident in February 2021 left him unable to walk for three months, Woods made his return to golf at the Masters and made the cut. It ended up being his worst career Masters finish — he finished in 47th place at 13 over par—and it was clear that walking the course was the bigger challenge for Woods than hitting shots. Woods has made clear that he will pick and choose which tournaments he will play going forward rather than return to playing the PGA Tour full-time. He is three major titles shy of tying Jack Nicklaus' career record of 18. Woods won the PGA Championship the last time it was held at Southern Hills, in 2007. His caddie, Joe LaCava, also told reporters that he sees Woods' strength returning. "Hundred percent I see him stronger," LaCava said. "I just think the endurance is there now. I don't think he's getting quite as tired as quickly. I see more endurance more than anything." "Other than the fact that he won here 15 years ago, I think it's the stamina and endurance thing that excites him the most." Elsewhere, Lee Kyoung-hoon hopes his accomplishments on the PGA Tour will make people remember his name. After joining Sam Snead, Jack Nicklaus, and Tom Watson as the only players to retain the Byron Nelson crown, there is little danger of anyone forgetting it. The South Korean, who goes by 'K.H. Lee', has endured a rough run of form in recent months but found his stroke at the right time to beat Jordan Spieth by a shot in Texas on Sunday. His bogey-free nine-under-par 63 vaulted the 30-year-old to 26-under for the tournament to follow all-time greats Snead (1957-58), Nicklaus (1970-71) and Watson (1978-80) as the fourth player to successfully defend their crown. When told of the illustrious company, Lee said: "I heard that. It's amazing, I can't believe it." Lee's father Sang Moo had explained that his son's full name meant "making a name for himself in Seoul" and the player said he hoped to keep seeing his name up in lights. "Hopefully people remember my name. I'll try to play well more, so hopefully, more will remember my name," added Lee, who was watched on by his parents, wife, and baby daughter at the TPC Craig Ranch. After a run of poor form, Lee went back to work with his former swing coach and mental coach at the start of last week. He also hired a new caddie. "I have been struggling the last couple of months," Lee, who won his second PGA Tour title, said. "I couldn't find the right way to solve the problems, so I decided to go back to the times when I was good and comfortable." A change in putter also did him the world of good.