Azimio-One Kenya affiliate parties aspirants in Homa Bay want residents to ignore ODM calls of six-piece voting. The politicians in Kanu, Democratic Action of Kenya and independent aspirants want ODM to embrace them as colleagues. They include Homa Bay governor aspirant Evans Kidero (independent), senate aspirants Tom Ojanga (Kanu), Kenneth Kambona (independent) and woman representative hopeful Mary Ojode seeking (DAP-K) However they said their votes for president will go to Raila Odinga. “Let residents vote for development conscious leaders. My vote and those of my supporters will go to Raila for president,” Kidero said. Homa Bay is a perceived ODM stronghold because most of its aspirants get elected during elections. The residents voted six-piece in 2013 and 2017 general elections. Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, who is also the ODM chairperson in Homa Bay said they are advocating for six-piece voting to strengthen the party. “Homa Bay is an ODM zone and we shouldn’t go against the pattern set. A six-piece voting will prove our loyalty to the party leader,” Wanga said. Kidero urged residents not to rely on political parties when choosing leaders but to focus on an aspirant's capability and track record. Kidero spoke when he attended the burial of his brother in-law Pascal Odira Ndiege at Kamasengre village in Rusinga Island, Suba North constituency on Friday. He told ODM aspirants to focus on issue base politics not propaganda. “We must defeat poverty, poor health and the problems that have bedeviled us for long. Homa Bay will only get transformed by electing leaders with good ideas,” Kidero said. Ojanga and Ojode wants their ODM colleagues to stop sidelining them because they are also campaigning for Raila. Other independent aspirants, who attended the burial are Jim Akali (Suba North MP), Tabitha Nyandiek (woman rep) and Elizabeth Ogweno (woman rep). Ojanga argued that Kanu is part and parcel of Azimio-One Kenya and asked ODM not bully them. “ODM should know that we’re their colleagues and therefore the six-piece voting in Homa Bay is no longer easy. You don’t discriminate against your team members,” Ojanga said. Ojode and Kambona asked residents not to repeat the mistake of voting leaders based on their political parties. She said many ODM elected leaders in Homa Bay have underperformed because they focus on the party political at the expense of development. “Homa Bay has remained backward in development because of wrong leaders. Let’s go for personality and not political parties on August 9,” Ojode said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)