A woman has been questioned over a man's shooting in Kasarani, Nairobi. Moses Njoroge alias Berno was shot dead by an unknown assailant on Monday. The woman is said to have been dropped by the deceased at an apartment in Mirema Springs estate minutes before the incident. The deceased died on the spot after he was shot at close range. A senior Directorate of Criminal Investigations detective attached to Kasarani police station said the incident occurred at 1pm. “According to preliminary investigations, the man had just dropped a woman at a certain apartment in Mirema Springs,” the source told the Star at Kasarani police station. “On his return, he met a man who shot him six times before fleeing the scene of the incident.” The man in his late 40s was alone inside the Honda CRV registration number KBY 453R. His body was discovered in his car at about 4pm. The incident happened in front of a young girl said to be the deceased’s daughter. According to witness accounts, the unidentified man was dropping his daughter home from school when a white Toyota Premio car approached and blocked his car. The witness said a man wearing a suit stepped out and shot him four times. After the first round of shooting the man went back to his car but came back and shot two more times killing him. The suspect then drove away. The witnesses said the lady had stepped out of the car and the engine was still running then when the shooting happened. They said the incident was an isolated one but decried rising incidents of insecurity along Thika Road. Kasarani police boss Peter Mwanzo said the unknown person alighted from his vehicle and shot his target six times. “We don’t know the assailant and the motive, but the matter is under probe,” he said. He said they had enhanced operations to tame insecurity. The body was moved to the city morgue pending an autopsy. Meanwhile, three people were killed in three separate crime incidents in the city. Police said the first incident was reported in Obama area where a man was found dead with stab wounds in the collar bone. The man seemed to have been attacked by unknown people and left at the scene. Another man was found dead in an open field in the Zimmerman area with head injuries. The man was found with two pliers, a tester, chalk and nails indicating he was a carpenter or mechanic. Police said they are investigating the death of one Joseph Mwangi, 25 with gun wounds in the chest in Kayole. Officers said they do not know who was behind the incident and the motive. The bodies were moved to the mortuary where a postmortem exercise was planned. Edited by Kiilu Damaris