Kenya Simbas coach Paul Odera will rotate his squad for Saturday's Currie Cup clash against South West District Eagles. The tactician faces a tight balancing act with two more matches in the pipeline, against Eastern Province and Leopards, at the RFUEA ground in the next fortnight. Odera said the onset of the three consecutive matches means he will have to dig deeper into his squad. "Three consecutive game weeks will be a tough toll on the players and so we must rotate the squad and ensure that players don't get burn-out. We must play to the best of our ability,” said Odera. Against the Eagles, Odera will start with Coleman Were, Eugene Sifuna and Brian Waraba in the front row with Clinton Odhiambo and Thomas Okeyo starting as locks. Skipper Dan Sikuta, Elkeans Musonye and Bethwell Anami will be in the backrow. Geoffrey Ominde and Brian Tanga will be the half-back pairing with a midfield of John Okoth and Vincent Onyala. Beldada Ogeta, Derrick Ashiundu and Andrew Matoka will form the back three. Odera will be expecting his side to be more disciplined unlike during last weekend's match against Boland Cavaliers, where two players were sent to the sin-bin and accumulated unwarranted penalties in a 45-33 defeat. "Discipline-wise, we have to better. It's very tough to play 14 men leave alone 13 men for 20 minutes. We must also reduce our penalty count,” said Odera. The former Kenya Under 20 and Strathmore Leos coach added that they must play at high intensity. “Against Boland, we collapsed in terms of energy levels for the first time in this tour. In all the matches, we finished stronger than our opponents. It's something we have to rectify,” said Odera, adding that the attack has been top-notch. "In attack, we were able to get over the gain-line. Our wingers were able to show how well they can finish. There are also fewer handling errors on the end.” Simbas have won one match on the tour, beating Border Bulldogs 35-12 to sit ninth on the log. They are using the Currie Cup as preparations for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers slated for July in France.