Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe will face her political nemesis and former legislator Kung’u Waibara after they were cleared by the IEBC on Monday. Kibe is seeking to retain her seat on the Jubilee ticket, while Waibara is vying as an independent candidate. The two have been entangled in a heated five-year legal battle after Waibara lodged a suit challenging Kibe’s election. The former MP lost to Wanjiku after garnering 9,390 votes against her 39,447. Waibara in September 2017 filed a petition at the High Court in Kiambu challenging Wanjiku’s win. He named Wanjiku and the electoral commission as respondents in the suit. Waibara claimed Wanjiku did not qualify to vie because she did not resign from her position of a nominated MCA. Wanjiku was nominated by The National Alliance  in 2013. Kibe said on Monday that she is ready to defend her seat in the male-dominated race. She is facing seven men in the race, who include former MP Kigo Njenga (UDA), Ndung’u Ikenye (Tujibebe Wakenya Party), Paul Mugo (ANC), Mathew Mukuha (Independent) and John Kamau (Independent). “I thank God that I’ve finally secured the certificate despite attempts to deny me the opportunity to serve my people for a second term. My opponents should now prepare for defeat,” she said. The lawmaker said despite the court hurdles she faced in her first term, her track record speaks volumes. “Gatundu North has for years been lagging behind but through my leadership, it has realised more development. We now have completed tarmac roads, while others are ongoing. This has opened up this region and improved livelihoods,” Kibe said. She called on her competitors to ensure they uphold peace during the elections. “Let us sell our agenda to our people peacefully. The elections will come and go but Gatundu North will remain,” she said. Waibara applauded the IEBC for bringing in new officials in the constituency saying the move will ensure free and fair polls. “I have interacted with new IEBC officials and they seem to be individuals of high integrity. All we want is a free and fair exercise,” Waibara said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)