Pride is like a poison to our hearts, our souls and consciences. It gives us a warped image of who we are and are capable of doing, which may indeed lead to our downfall. Satan himself was cast down from heaven due to his pride. Isaiah 14:12-17 talks of the rise and fall of Satan as an angel of God. Seeing as he was enjoying a high status among God's angels, Satan thought of himself as equal to God and so sought to outdo Him. The book of Daniel 4 talks of the humbling of King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon after he had been warned in a dream against boasting about himself. According to Nebuchadnezzar, everything he had achieved, including the palatial buildings and the royal residence, were as a result of his own strength. He was then driven into the wild and forced to eat grass until He acknowledged that God is most sovereign. Just like the Babylonian king, many times our hearts are filled with pride and set on things that are here on earth. Pride is a form of excessive trust in self — bordering on narcissism — and the disdain for any personal weaknesses. God hates pride and as He says in Proverbs 3:34, He mocks the proud mockers and shows favour to the humble. Overall, the book of Proverbs has very many teachings on the dangers of a proud personality. Yet in our modern society, arrogance and aggressiveness have been exalted as the ingredients of success. Individualism — which entails even detachment from family members — is perceived as the hallmark of enlightenment (or wokeness). Even as we embrace these new ways of thinking that affect how we live with one another and relate to God, let us remember His words in Jeremiah 17:5-6: “Cursed is the man who trusts in man; And makes flesh his strength, Whose heart departs from the Lord. 6 For he shall be like a shrub in the desert; And shall not see when good comes; But shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness; In a salt land which is not inhabited." The story of Amaziah king of Judah in 2 Chronicles 25 highlights the dangers of drawing strength and taking pride in mere human flesh. Amaziah had seen the advantages of trusting in God when he went to war against the Edomites. Having listened to God and done away with the fighting men from Israel, Amaziah routed the Edomites, causing them casualties of tens of thousands. However, this success soon got into his head and he forgot that it was the power of God that granted him victory. Soon, he turned to idol worship and even threatened to kill the prophet of God, who had come to warn him against this practice. Amaziah's pride soon led to his downfall when he needlessly decided to go to war against Jehoash, king of Israel. He was thoroughly thwacked and lived the rest of his life as a captive before he was assassinated. This story, and many more, is clear evidence that God is our author and perfecter and thus, we are nothing without Him.