The government won’t spare parents who are not taking their kids to school in this 100 per cent transition period, Luanda sub-county deputy county commissioner county Benson Aluodo has warned. He said those kids who sat for 2021 KCPE should join form one before the month of May comes to an end. “You either take your child to school or we shall force you to do so because that’s a right to that kid,” he said. The DCC was addressing the press at his office in Luanda sub-county headquarters while flagging off Elimu scholarship beneficiaries in Luanda and Emuhaya sub-counties. He said no parent should complain about school fees as there are several organizations that have come on board to help learners countrywide. “We have wings to fly from Equity bank, We have scholarship programs from KCB and Cooperative bank at the county as well," he said. “So let no child stay at home." He urged the local administrators specifically Chiefs and their assistants to go door to door in their areas to enforce 100 per cent transition. The law enforcer further urged the parents with disabled kids not to hide them but to bring them on board to be accorded the necessary assistance. “Disability can get you anywhere. For me, I wasn’t born a man with a disability. A road accident and the 1998 blast in Nairobi kept me in this situation,” he urged. On the other hand, the Equity bank Manager Luanda branch Peter Lubale said the Elimu scholarship was implemented back in 2020 to caution families that were badly hit by the covid-19 pandemic. “The program was implemented first in other counties and it was to last for only two years, but due to covid-19 hiccups, it was extended for other two years and expanded to other counties including Vihiga,” Lubale said. Lubale said the Elimu scholarship program that is currently supported by the World bank has benefited 76 learners in Vihiga county for the first time. He said the scholarship caters for school fees, transport, and learning materials for the four-year secondary education period something that is a big boost to poor but bright students. He urged the learners to make use of the advantage at hand to achieve their long term life goals.