Research by a state agency has revealed poor housing, punitive transfers and placement, poor working conditions and stressful work as part of the reasons the cops perform poorly. The report also shows low pay and benefits remuneration contributes to the poor performance of police at work. Other officers interviewed cited inadequate resourcing, internal and external interference, poor working conditions and housing. The report by the National Crime Research Centre titled-Factors Shaping Police Performance in Kenya was conducted towards the end of 2021 to establish why the officers perform the way they do. This followed an earlier report by the Taskforce for Police Reforms in 2009 that concluded having a sound incentive system in the service to motivate officers impacts their performance. “Thus it is not possible to seriously address police reforms without a sound understanding of factors that shape the individual performance of NPS and how its relationship can maximise performance to adequately meet the needs of the citizens,” the report said. It focused on police officers of all ranks as respondents because they play a significant role in ensuring public safety. It was conducted in 18 counties and targeted 976 respondents, 57 key informants and 10 focus group discussions. Other respondents cited inadequate resourcing (55.2 per cent), internal and external interference (43.1 per cent), inadequate pay and benefits (37.9 per cent), poor housing (25.9 per cent), poor leadership and punitive placement (20.7 per cent) and corruption (19 per cent). According to the report, 68 per cent of the respondents who indicated they are motivated to work said guaranteed salary and benefits, passion to serve, recognition of their work performance, community support, availability of resources, fair promotion, fair distribution of duties and annual leave affect their performance. Other officers said they exit the service because of low salaries, unfair transfers, disagreement with their seniors, limited promotions, unmet expectations, heavy workload, drug and substance abuse, inadequate health covers and sickness, favouritism and sexual harassment. The positive perception attributes cited on police include them being agents of security, good performers, trustworthy, appreciated and professional. Negative ones were corruption, untrustworthy, brutal, unappreciative, threatening, uneducated, poor communicators and murderous. To address the shortcomings, the state-sponsored NCRC said the National Police Service Commission should create well, publicised confidential professional counselling services to be based in each county and ensure widespread access to these services. NPSC has been asked to ensure risk factors related to police work are compensable factors in salary indexing by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, to guarantee a competitive remuneration system, as a retention and motivation strategy. Further, the two institutions have been urged to establish an award scheme, to recognise outstanding police officers. NCRC has also urged both NPS and NPSC to implement a robust career progression strategy, that will encourage common cadre promotions and discourage suppression of promotion where other officers bypass others. Also, there is a need for a competitive medical cover and comprehensive insurance life cover for police officers, with attention to psychological support care. The NPS and NPSC have been asked to implement a proven behaviour assessment toolkit as a precise variable in refining the selection and recruitment process for potential police recruits, to match the workplace and individual expectations of recruits. To improve police performance, the NPS alongside NPSC has been asked to educate senior and junior police officers, to ensure impartiality in the police operating procedures. This, the research centre said will increase trust and reduce gender frustrations of male and female officers, which can lead to violence. The report called for the inclusion of multi-agency professionals in the police recruitment process, to support the vetting of candidates and deter malpractices. There is a need for regular housing audits and paying economic rent as housing allowances to address the service’s housing shortage. The government also needs to develop a structured and systematic public trust-police image-building strategy on the police legitimacy among the public that encourages compliance with the law, acceptance of police authority, deference to police authority and willingness to cooperate. “Limit the use of transfer as punishment due to risk of convergence of officers with similar prior disciplinary issues, officers suffering from failure in career advancement and record of public complaints in areas of operation hence negatively affecting policing response,” the report said. The report wants a review of standard operating procedures with a specific focus on the wide discretionary authority which is a feature of police work and how the police exercise that authority.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris