Deputy President William Ruto will on Saturday take his presidential campaign to Bungoma, where he is set to hold a forum with the business community. In an exclusive interview with the Star on Wednesday, Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said the forum will be held at Matili Technical Institute. "Saturday will be a big day here in Bungoma. Our next president William Ruto will be meeting business people from mama mboga, boda boda and cart pullers," Barasa said. Barasa said the aim of the forum is to educate residents on the bottom-up economic model and how the Kenya Kwanza government will implement it. "Many people including senior leaders don't understand what bottom-up is all about therefore, Saturday it will be your day to ask any questions about it," he said. Barasa said if Kenya Kwanza clinches power in the August 9 polls, Luhyas will enjoy 30 per cent stake of Ruto's government. He said the coalition has great plans for Kenyans unlike the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya coalition. “In Kenya Kwanza we are not having any headache in choosing Ruto's deputy unlike in the Azimio, where they are having sleepless nights on whom to settle on. I want to tell them let’s meet on the ballot,” Barasa said. The lawmaker affirmed that Kenya Kwanza government will accommodate all people and will focus on improving the economy. “Kenyans economy needs immediate revival to open up opportunities for the unemployed youths and help small business grow,” he said. Barasa said that immediately Ruto wins elections his first task will be to revive the ailing industries in the region by replacing Nzoia Sugar Company and Malakisi ginnery with digital machines. “The old scrap metals at Nzoia Sugar should be removed and replaced with digital machines that can mill huge tonnes of sugar cane,” he said. Barasa urged Bungoma residents to rally behind Nancy Kibaba and vote for her as the women representative. “Nancy is our UDA candidate in the Bungoma. I ask you to vote for her,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)