A tantalizing clash pitting Kenyan Premier League leaders Kakamega Homeboyz against second-placed Tusker will be the highlight of the Kenyan Premier League round 29 fixtures slated for this weekend. The two sides will flex muscles at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday, in a crunch tie that might just as well define the turning point in this year's race for the title. Homeboyz have been amazing this season, amassing a whopping 56 points thus far from 28 league outings and losing only twice. Tusker are four points adrift. Homeboyz may, however, have to do without their first-choice custodian Geoffrey Oputi who is mourning his father, Simon Oputi, who passed away on Tuesday, aged 61, after a long battle with diabetes. Mathare United risk automatic relegation if they fail to honour their third fixture, against Sofapaka at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Friday. The Slum Boys have already dished out two walkovers against Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium a fortnight ago and another one against Ulinzi Stars at Kericho Green Stadium last weekend. There isn't the slightest hint yet that the bottom-placed side will make a trip to Kasarani for their fixture against Sofapaka who are 11th on the log with 36 points. Bidco United dare Ulinzi Stars at Thika Stadium on Saturday in search of a win that could fire them to the top ten bracket. Bidco are currently 12th in the standings with 33 points, while Ulinzi are 14th with 31. Kariobangi Sharks host Vihiga Bullets at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Saturday. Sharks place sixth on the log with 45 points and are likely to go two spots higher if they manage maximum points. KCB will seek to redeem their battered ego after crushing 2-1 to AFC Leopards at Nyayo Stadium last Sunday when they come up against Talanta at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Saturday. The bankers have experienced a tough journey this time round after wrapping up in an impressive second spot in this preceding season. They are rooted in the eighth position with 39 points, level with their opponents who, however, have an inferior goal difference. Kenya Police travel all the way to Sudi Stadium in Bungoma on Saturday for a clash against hosts Nzoia Sugar. The law enforcers who have blown hot and cold this season are 13th on the log with 31 points while the millers are 15th with 28. Posta Rangers play host to coastal side, Bandari, at Thika Stadium on Saturday. Whereas the dockers are currently third with 47 points, the mailmen are rooted in the seventh position with 42. Struggling Wazito have a chance to disentangle themselves from the looming relegation threat if they manage maximum points against Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Saturday.