Beware politicians spewing divisive politics to disrupt the August 9 election, former Trans Nzoia Senator Henry ole Ndiema has said. He also urged all Trans Nzoia residents and Kenyans at large to support the Kenya Kwanza coalition and its presidential candidate Deputy President Ruto and the bottom-up initiative to fix the economy. “Let’s all support the DP's bid because in him I see this nation prospering. Above all, let us campaigns peacefully without violence," he said. He told politicians jostling for seats to promote peace, cohesion and unity. He urged young men not to be exploited by politicians who want them to cause violence. Ndiema, who was first elected in 2013 on the Ford Kenya ticket, narrowly lost the office to Michael Mbito. He is campaigning  to recapture the seat, pledging to use devolved funds prudently. "I’m firmly in the race to reclaim my seat which you know was snatched from me narrowly," Ndiema told the Star in an interview in Kitale. He said as a staunch Christian he will defend devolution to ensure the county doesn’t continue to stagger behind in development. Insiders told the Star that the former senator has high chances of reclaiming his seat if he plays his cards well. He called on his adversaries to carry out their campaigns peacefully. "This country will have to remain even after the general election.We must all avoid falling into the temptation of being chaotic and being non-accommodative to divergent opinion," he said. He defended his Ford Kenya against claims of having overseen the plundering of resources which led to stalled mega projects started by the party's governor in Trans Nzoia. He said so far all mega infrastructure projects started by the outgoing governor were almost 90 per cent complete. He warned residents against falling victims to politicians he said were only interested in peddling lies concerning projects like the county teaching and referral hospital and the  modern trading centre right in the CBD. "The teaching and referral hospital which will in a month or so be in operation is the third largest facility in this c," he said. He said that the modern trading centre inspired by the two-term Ford Kenya governor will give Kitale town a new look. Kenya Kwanza Trans Nzoia gubernatorial candidate Dr Chris Wamalwa criticised those finding fault with Khaemba’s leadership. He spoke separately in his constituency while campaigning for Dr Joseph Wafula, popularly known as Double Double, who is running for the Kiminini seat. Wamalwa said those fighting Governor Khaemba were mere brokers who could not be trusted with the country’s leadership. (Edited by V. Graham)