The Catholic Church has urged political aspirants and Kenyans to remain united and peaceful before, during and after the August general election. Speaking during the Episcopal Consecration and Installation of Garissa Bishop Monsignor George Muthaka, bishops Martin Kivuva of Mombasa and Philip Anyolo of Nairobi urged voters to elect leaders who care for the country. Bishop Kivuva said Kenyans should ensure they elect leaders who will concentrate on economic recovery of the country. The leaders should also focus on reconciliation of Kenyans across the political divide and working towards respecting the country’s values and ethos. “In the next three months, we will be going to the election and my appeal to Kenyans is to rise above tribal and party politics and choose leaders based on their capabilities and manifestos," he said. "We want to have leaders who will unite the country because, at the end of the day, we are Kenyans and have a country to protect after the election.” He said the church will continue remaining steadfast in pointing the ills happening in the society as they also advising Kenyans to make wise and informed decisions. “The church continues to be conscience of our society. We are at the centre of helping our people through education. that is a role we will continue playing as church leaders,” Kivuva said. On his part, Bishop Anyolo urged politicians to be sober when selling their manifestos and avoid issuing utterances that might trigger violence in the country. “We can see there is mobilisation by politicians, but the church as it has done before, is trying to help the people to understand the qualities to look for when electing leaders," Anyolo said. On his part, Bishop Muthaka promised to do his best to unite the entire congregation with that of other faiths. He also emphasised on the need of leaders to sensitise their speakers during political gatherings and avoid issuing utterances that incite and polarise the country. Bishop Muthaka said Kenyans are well informed and know the kind of leaders they want hence there is no need for politicians to incite them or whip emotions to get votes. Bishop Muthaka was born on December 28, 1974, in Ruiru, Kiambu county. He went to St George’s Primary School from 1981 to 1988 and Queen of Apostles Minor Seminary, Nairobi, from 1989 to 1992. He was ordained a deacon in December 2002 and a priest in June 2003. In 2009 he was elected the vice provincial minister of the general vice province of Kenya for a three-year term.  (edited by Amol Awuor)