Nzoia sugar farmers have been urged to be patient and continue with farming during the two months the factory will be undergoing maintenance. Speaking to the press at the company premises on Thursday during a visit by Presidential Delivery Unit (PDU), Bungoma County Commissioner Samuel Kimiti lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for allocating Sh1.5bn to the sugar sector that has helped Nzoia Sugar clear some of its debts. Kimiti said the work of the Presidential Delivery Unit is to ascertain government projects and ensure that government money allocated to projects is spent well. “I have come here accompanied with the Western region Presidential deliver unit director Sitati Olando to see how Nzoia Sugar company is fairing on and how it has spent the Sh500m they received from the national government,” Kimiti said, adding that the firm spent money well and it’s looking forward for closure to undergo maintenance to increase output. The administrator noted that the team went around the company to see the areas that need maintenance adding that the Nzoia factory needs a serious facelift so that it can expand milling of the sugarcane. “I have gone around the factory and seen how it has worn out, some parts need replacement,” Kimiti said, adding that the old machine risks the lives of the factory workers. Kimiti assured the company that the county security team will tighten the security during maintenance. “I have been informed by the Managing director Mr Ogutu that some of the spare parts have started arriving in the company. I want to assure you that I will provide security,” he said. In his appeal, Kimiti urged the company management to give job opportunities to qualified youths from the nearby areas in the two months  of maintenance period. The county commissioner lauded defence CS Eugene Wamalwa for supporting the factory arguing that he has been visiting the company frequently to check on its progress. Kimiti urged the state to continue supporting Nzoia sugar saying many other institutions and people greatly depend on it for survival. “This factory helps schools and the football team in executing their roles therefore the government should continue supporting it to the fullest,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by the company managing director Chrispine Ogutu who said that some maintenance exercises will start before the exert closing date so that it's completed on time. Mr Ogutu added that he aims at reviving the factory and ensuring that it increases its efficiency so that they can be able to clear the outstanding farmers' and suppliers' debts. “I want to assure that that the factory’s efficiency would have been increased and its milling capacity will be high,” Ogutu added. On his part, Western region Presidential Delivery Unit Mr Sitati Olando director lauded Nzoia sugar for standing and running the factory without enough cash adding that the government will continue supporting the company to its growth.