Actress and media personality Serah Teshna was always fascinated by double roles and feels lucky to have finally gotten the chance to play it in the new Showmax series Igiza. The series which premiers on May 23 see's Teshna play twin sisters at war after a betrayal that changes their lives forever. The 13-part thriller and comedy was directed and produced by Abdi Shuria from Yare productions and is set against the backdrop of Nairobi’s fashion industry and the money laundering business, (wash wash). Her role as Linda and Nicole, she describes it as every actor’s dream. “I have always wanted to play such a role. The role was exciting but it comes with a lot of demands," she said. "It had to come out as the two characters, who have different values. I enjoyed acting a lot but there was always this pressure to appear different while looking the same. That was tough.” The 30-second teaser reveals that something big is about to go down as we are introduced to the two sides of Serah Teshna. Twelve years into serving time, Nicole (evil twin) breaks out of prison and takes the place of her identical twin sister Linda, a top fashion designer who runs a successful fashion house who she claims framed her. Nicole intends to take back everything she is owed. But there is only one obstacle: her sister’s seemingly wonderful life is filled with dark secrets that threaten to destroy her. Joining Teshna in the lead role is Kevin Samuel, an actor who we last saw on our screens in Mali in 2015, and who now returns as Linda’s ambitious and calculating husband Reggie. Like Linda, Reggie will do anything to get ahead, even use his wife’s business to launder money for a very dangerous crime syndicate. The show also stars  Ainea Ojiambo (Kina) as Musa, the prison warden obsessed with Nicole and Sheila Ndanu (Maria) in the prison setting. Blessing Lung’aho (Zora), Kevin Samuel (Mali), Emmanuel Mugo (Pillow Talk), Torome Sision (Monica), Keith Chuaga (Famous), and Eddie Mbugua (You Again). “A lot of preparation went into capturing this prison world as authentically as possible," Producer and director Shuria said. “We visited Lang’ata Women’s Prison to learn about the different prison dialects, procedures, and what the experience is like for both inmates and guards.” Igiza is the fourth Showmax Original in Kenya, building on the success of the Kalasha-winning police procedural series Crime and Justice, the coming-of-age film Baba Twins, and the drama series Single Kiasi. Showmax has also unveiled a yet-untitled project that claims to be Kenya’s first-ever Christmas feature film and telenovela series in the coming months.