Three-time Olympic champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce says she was intrigued by Moi Stadium, Kasarani's moniker as the home of heroes. The Jamaican, who is making her maiden trip to the country, said she has so far been impressed by the facilities at the 60,000-seater stadium and is pumped up for today's Kip Keino Classic at the same venue. "I went to the warmup area yesterday and saw this sign on your stadium...the Home of Heroes. I thought that was wonderful. My first time was in Namibia and it's also my first time here in Kenya and so far I am having a great time," the nine-time world champion said. Fraser-Pryce finished fourth in the women's 200m at the Tokyo Olympics, a race in which 18-year-old Christine Mboma announced herself on the world stage with a silver medal. The two are expected to clash in the women's 200m on Saturday albeit the Namibian will also be competing in the 100m. Despite pre-race headlines highlighting a potential rematch of the Olympics, Fraser-Pryce chose to focus on Kip Keino's significance for their preparations for upcoming international assignments. "I don't look at it as a rematch. Every race has its own perspective...for me it (Kip Keino Classic) is a chance to show how much you have been doing in training. I am always looking to get better with every race," she said. She praised Mboma for her wildfire career progression thus far and said it is time Africa featured in conversations about the best sprinters in the world. "I see her as a wonderful competitor. I appreciate it when I have competitors who stand up to the occasion and like to bring their A-game. To have an African athlete mentioned in sprints is a wonderful thing," Fraser-Pryce said. Mboma has developed a rapport with Moi Stadium, Kasarani, having won the World Under-20 200m title in August last year before clinching the same race at the second edition of the Kip Keino Classic in September. Regardless, the Namibian says she is keeping her feet on the ground while focusing on her targets. "When I compete, I run my own race...I focus on myself so I won't let fame get into my head. I will keep doing what I love doing on the track," Mboma said. The two were speaking jointly during a media session at Safari Park Hotel on Friday afternoon. At the same venue, Olympic hammer throw champion Wojciech Nowicki hopes Kip Keino Classic will be the lucky charm he needs to set a new personal best this year. "I am always looking to get better and perform better than last year. Last year, I won gold in Tokyo but am always looking to improve on my PB. We'll see what this year has to offer," Nowicki, who lost out to fellow Pole Pawel Fajdeck at last year's Kip Keino Classic, said. Similarly, the women's Olympic hammer throw champion, Anita Wlodarczyk, said she is targeting a throw of at least 75m as she prepares for upcoming competitions. "It is my first time in Kenya where I am hoping to have a good go on Saturday. I hope to throw 75m and I want to enjoy myself and remain competitive," she said. 