Ajax Amsterdam can claim the Dutch league for a third successive season and hand departing coach Erik ten Hag a fitting farewell if they win their penultimate game of the season on Wednesday. A home win over Heerenveen would put them out of the reach of PSV Eindhoven, who are four points behind with two games left to play and the only team able to catch Ten Hag's side. The 52-year-old coach leaves at the end of the season for Manchester United and a third league title in four seasons with the Amsterdam giants would solidify his reputation after four and a half years with the club. Ajax's task was made easier by arch-rivals Feyenoord, who came from behind to hold PSV to a 2-2 draw on Sunday with a controversial last-gasp penalty. This after Ajax had been held by AZ Alkmaar earlier in the day. If they win, it will be the first trophy of the season for Ajax, who lost to PSV in the Super Cup at the start of the season and in last month's KNVB (Dutch football association) Cup final. Ajax were also eliminated in the last-16 of the Champions League by Benfica, after having won all of their group games. They have 79 points from 32 games while PSV have 75. PSV have a home game on Wednesday against NC Nijmegen. The last round of Dutch league matches is on Sunday. Elsewhere, Melbourne City coach Patrick Kisnorbo praised his team's endurance through a challenging season after the reigning A-League champions moved into pole position to secure back-to-back titles. City's 2-1 home win over Wellington Phoenix on Monday ensured they pipped cross-town rivals Melbourne Victory to top the league at the end of the regular season, earning the Premier's Plate for the second year in a row. Both City and second-placed Victory will have a week off before playing two-legged semi-finals against the winners of the elimination finals starting on Saturday. The COVID-19 pandemic played havoc with the A-League schedule this season, forcing a raft of match postponements and teams to adapt on the fly. The city had to juggle a disappointing Asian Champions League campaign, eliminated in the group stage after Hong Kong champions Kitchee advanced with a shock 2-2 draw with Vissel Kobe last week. "It's been a big year," Kisnorbo told reporters. "Obviously what we've had to deal with - and I'm not just saying us, but a lot of clubs - (with) back-to-back games, and you get put in situations that we've never been put in before because of the Covid situation. 