Othaya parliamentary aspirants have pledged to conduct issue-based campaigns even as some decried the rampant defacing of their campaign materials. Area MP Gichuki Mugambi of Jubilee and Patrick Ngunjiri of Chama Cha Kazi revealed their frustrations on Monday. Mugambi called on aspirants to conduct peaceful and issue-based campaigns devoid of insults. He urged opponents to keep off politics of hooliganism like disrupting meetings, hurling insults or bringing down campaign materials. “We shall remain in Othaya even after the campaign days elapse and so I implore every one to campaign peacefully and sell their agenda because that is what is important,” he said. Mugambi said he was ready to go back to Othaya voters to seek a second term. “Going by our track record the people of Othaya will give us a mandate to continue working for them,” he said. The MP said he delivered on education, roads, operationalising of Mwai Kibaki Level Six Hospital and lobbying for the upgrading of Othaya to a municipality. Ngunjiri also pledged to conduct issue-based campaigns without insults or violence. Candidates should be selling their vision, manifesto and ideas and shun politics of hooliganism, he said. The MP hopeful said about two weeks ago, some of his opponents brought down his posters while others were defaced. “Yes we have been having challenges. Some candidates are already violating the IEBC code of conduct by defacing, removing and even stealing my campaign posters,” he said. “We will make a formal complaint to the police and IEBC so that action can be taken.” Others who also presented their documents included independent candidates Joseph Kiragu and David Kimengere. Kiragu said he has a vision of improving health, education, water supply, electricity, roads and technical training institutions. He said he will spare a day every week for residents to visit his office and raise their issues. He said the Mwai Kibaki Hospital has not measured up to standards in terms of productivity and that he will urge government to make it autonomous. “That autonomy will come with direct funding from the treasury. It will increase pace, direct decision making and reduce protocol so that purchases of equipment among other utilities will be easier and faster,” he said. He also proposed that the non skilled labour will be hired locally so that the area people can benefit more from the facility. Kimengere said his main agenda will be creating jobs for the youth, conserving the environment by planting trees in Aberdares and Karima forests. (Edited by Tabnacha O)