Ford Kenya and ANC parties will get six Cabinet slots if the Kenya Kwanza coalition wins the presidential election, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has said. Speaking in Soysambu, Tongaren constituency, during a public rally on Wednesday, Wetang'ula said that was the agreement they had deposited at the Registrar of Political Parties and IEBC. "Ford Kenya and ANC being founder members of Kenya Kwanza coalitions will have 30 per cent of Cabinet and any other appointments," Wetang'ula said. He further said the 30 per cent applies even in other appointments, including principal secretaries and ambassador position. The senator called on the Mulembe nation to vote for Kenya Kwanza, saying that was where their interests would be catered for. He said he was satisfied with being senator of Bungoma and the positions he was fighting for were for the community and not himself. Wetang'ula said he wasn't a selfish person and would ensure all his bargains are tailored toward empowering the community. He assured the Luhya nation that the agreement they had made with Deputy President William Ruto will be respected as the DP had a history of keeping his promises. "Unlike Raila Odinga, Ruto has no history of betrayal and I am assuring our  people that as a lawyer we have a good deal with him," he said. He also said ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and himself were the main gatekeepers of the Western region and that a presidential aspirant without their blessings will not get votes. "We are the first and last line of your defence so kindly listen to our direction and vote Kenya Kwanza," the senator said. "For along time the division in the Luhya nation has been because of Maragolis and Bukusus, but with our union, the game is over." Musalia told those supporting Azimio in Western to stop criticising their 30 per cent deal but instead tell residents what they have bargained on the other side. He said the Azimio pre-election agreement was unclear and that is why Governors Alfred Mutua and Amason Kingi quit.  (edited by Amol Awuor)