Local stakeholders have called a meeting at a Nairobi hotel on May 21 to lay the road map for Kenyan football. The development comes barely a day after a High Court verdict that dismissed a petition lodged by ousted FKF president Nick Mwendwa who challenged Sports CS Amina Mohamed's decision to constitute a Caretaker committee on November 11. Coincidentally, Amina also received the draft FKF Constitution from the Caretaker Committee whose mandate expired on the same day. In a statement released on Wednesday, an ad-hoc committee of delegates led by secretary-general Luthers Mokua said the May 21 meeting would be a follow-up to the preceding one held in March where a number of resolutions were made. In a Special General Meeting (SGM) held at Sportsview Hotel in Nairobi in March, 44 delegates — including branch and club officials — resolved to write to FKF Secretary-General Barry Otieno asking him to call for an elective SGM in line with the FKF constitution. In an exclusive interview, Mokua said Otieno's response would constitute part of the agenda. “We wrote to Barry Otieno as had been agreed but we didn't get a positive response. We will share that information with delegates who will agree on the way forward.” “The delegates will deliberate on the running of national football leagues, collaboration/partnership with the Kenya government on the development of football in Kenya,” Mokua said. The meeting will also touch on the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers scheduled to begin early next month, where Harambee Stars have been drawn. Other issues on the agenda include the re-opening of/access to the FKF secretariat offices as well as an audit of the secretariat (human resource and assets). Mokua said they are doing all this in their capacity as the General Assembly which is still in existence despite the government's decision to expel FKF. He refuted claims that they were out to outsmart the government and hijack the leadership of the federation. “If anything, we are eager to support the government's efforts and we have stated that as part of the day's agenda,” Mokua said. “This is just a consultative forum and what we want is for members to chart the way forward.” Seasoned football administrator, Lordvick Aduda has, however, faulted the whole idea, describing it as unconstitutional. Aduda said the meeting will merely serve to worsen the already volatile situation in the country. “I'm opposed to a situation where the decisions by the delegates will be seen to be at loggerheads with the stakeholders. It's important that they appreciate the fact that the government is also a major stakeholder in football,” Aduda said. “The CS received the draft FKF Constitution from the Caretaker Committee just the other day and promised to provide direction after further consultations. So what's all the hurry for? “They don't have the mandate to call such a meeting. Further, they don't have the power to audit the secretariat as they are planning to do. No complaint has been placed by the General Assembly.” “The ball goes back to the CS. The CS knows there is a vacuum. What we need is a road map that will lead to normalcy,” Aduda said. FKF Nairobi branch chairman, Amos Otieno, said it would be unfortunate for key players to sit back unresponsively. “We have an international match on the cards and we need to get things moving,” Otieno said. “We are ready and willing to work closely with the government to right the wrongs in the country's football.