Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua at the weekend toured Murang’a to drum up support for Azimio la Umoja. This came days after she was named Azimio la Umoja presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga’s running mate. Karua on Friday toured Mathioya, Kangema, Kiharu and Maragua constituencies to popularise the vision of the coalition. She said the coalition will make inroads into the region that largely supports Deputy President William Ruto. “We are here today to plant, and we will come back again and again to tend to the seed we have planted until it matures,” Karua said. She said under Raila’s presidency, the socio-economic welfare of Kenyans will be taken care of, with poor households receiving stipends of Sh6,000 each month. Once the economy strengthens and beneficiaries of the programme acquire jobs, they will be removed from the programme, Karua said. “Our wish is not that people remain poor, it is to ensure that no Kenyan sleeps on an empty stomach regardless of their social or economic status. Raila has pledged to reinforce the social economic rights of Kenyans,” she said. Karua told Murang’a residents that under Raila’s administration, healthcare will be streamlined under BabaCare. Under the programme, his government will upscale the universal health coverage started by the Jubilee government and expand it countrywide. “With Raila, Kenyans will no longer suffer due to lack of quality healthcare. Whether rich or poor, they will all be treated under BabaCare,” she said. Karua praised Raila as a leader who has dedicated his life towards fighting for the welfare of Kenyans even when out of the government. She lauded him for making her his running mate despite the fact that she has been away from politics for some time. Karua was accompanied by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, former Senator Kembi Gitura, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, MPs Peter Kimari (Mathioya) and Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga). Chege recently said Raila’s popularity in the region had risen from about one per cent last year to about 30 per cent. She said they plan to ensure Raila’s support in the region reaches 50 per cent by August. Edited by A.N