Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has fired back at his former Senator Johnstone Muthama who accused him of being a "liar". When contacted by the Star to respond to the allegations, Mutua said he is focused on Deputy President William Ruto's presidential bid and would, therefore, not pay attention to Muthama's accusations. "I will not be distracted from the job at hand and that is of ensuring Ruto secures the Presidency and Kenya Kwanza forms the next Government," he said adding that he will not respond to the claims. Muthama in an interview with KTN News on Wednesday evening divulged he has political issues with Mutua. Despite his entry to the Kenya Kwanza Alliance, Muthama said he cannot work with him until the issues are settled. The former senator made the revelations while explaining why he snubbed the Kenya Kwanza Alliance rally in Tala, Machakos County on Tuesday. The UDA chairman said the governor soiled his name while he was serving as a senator and cannot, therefore, interact with him just because he has joined the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. "I and Mutua have had differences for some time. It is not personal, but political. I had problems with him when I was the Machakos senator because he lied to the people of the county and maligned my name. If I know someone is a liar, I can't forget all that within a day." The UDA Chairman said he will only work with Mutua if he accepts to go back to the people of Machakos county and own up to what he called " his lies". Among the issues, he raised as the bone of contention with Mutua include the Governor's alleged statement that he had connected all households in Machakos with water. Muthama says that did not happen. "The money that was allocated for that project cannot be located where it is," he said. Muthama also alleged that Mutua told the people of Machakos that he had built a number of dams in the county but that is not the case. Now that they are in one political camp, Muthama said Mutua is at liberty to campaign for the DP and even vote for him, but that will not change his perception of his style of leadership. He said the Machakos governor can run campaigns for Kenya Kwanza Alliance in the county but he won't be a party to it.