Leaders Kakamega Homeboyz face an arduous task in their next Kenyan Premier League clash against record champions Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. Homeboyz, who currently top the standings with 59 points, must overcome Gor Mahia to stay clear of Tusker who are breathing heavily on their necks with only three points separating the two sides. The brewers will also be in action against Nzoia Sugar at Ruaraka grounds on Sunday. They head into the match in the full knowledge that anything less than a win could greatly compromise their chances for a second consecutive title. Third-placed, Bandari will look to boost their chances of laying claim to their maiden title when they dare Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. Whereas the dockers have amassed 53 points so far from 30 league encounters, Sharks are sixth with 45. AFC Leopards have a date with debutants Talanta at Nyayo Stadium on Saturday. Ingwe are eighth on the log with 42 points while their opponents are 11th with 40. Nairobi City Stars face KCB in the city derby at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Saturday. City are in the contention bracket at fourth with 50 points and a win could possibly fire them to third depending on how Bandari fare. On the other hand, KCB have been a pale shadow of themselves this season with their lackadaisical run leaving them 10th on the log with 40 points, a stark contrast to the preceding season where they wrapped up as runners-up. After hogging three free points from a walkover against relegated Mathare United last weekend, Kenya Police travel all the way to Thika Stadium where they will settle scores with hosts Bidco United. Whereas Bidco are in the 13th spot with 33 points, the law enforcers are a point adrift right behind them. Ulinzi Stars, travel all the way to Bukhungu Stadium to face relegation-threatened Vihiga Bullets. The soldiers have struggled to impress this season and are currently 12th in the standings with 35 points. Vihiga are third from the bottom with a paltry 26 points. Posta Rangers host a rejuvenated Sofapaka at Thika Stadium on Saturday. Whereas the mailmen are seventh with 43 points, Sofapaka are ninth with 42 points.