Jubilee party candidate in the Kisii Governor race Chris Obure has condemned the stoning of his convoy during a rally in Kisii on Thursday morning. Stones and rotten eggs were hauled at his vehicles as he campaigned at Mwembe in Kisii. The former Ministry of Transport Chief Administrative Secretary suspects a rival may have funded goons to perpetuate the act. "I urge our youth not to be used to engage in acts of hooliganism," Obure said. He said he had a rough time campaigning after youths pelted him with stones although he escaped unhurt during the mid-morning incident. Obure's campaign team consists of Peris Onsarigo (Woman Rep) and former PDP party chair Omingo Magara who is now seeking the senatorial seat. The former senator described the attack as an act of cowardice. "Someone is already scared even before I begin intensive campaigns. What will happen when I go full throttle?" posed Obure. He spoke on Thursday as he reached out to the electorate at the Capital roundabout in Central Kisii. He said he has always been an advocate of peace all his life and challenged his competitors to embrace peace. “I have contested in 10 elections and never advocated for violence. I ask that all of us engage in peaceful campaigns," Obure said. The former CAS will be on the ballot with Ezekiel Machogu (UDA), Simba Arati (ODM), Manson Nyamweya and Rael Otundo (PPK). Obure hails from Bobasi, the same political base as Arati. He faces an acid test as he hawks his bid on the backdrop of criticism from Arati over the age factor. The former senator has since rubbished the age factor, saying leaders hone their expertise with age and he is no exception. "Where do we get experience if not by long service at work," Obure asked during a recent interview with the Star. He has served as Kisii senator, Bobasi MP and a Cabinet Minister in  Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta's administrations. Magara, who accompanied Obure on Thursday, said they will not be dampened by the stoning incident. “We have served the people of Kisii County for many years as their Members of Parliament and are now ready to serve them as their Governor and Senator respectively, why are some people getting scared of us?” posed Magara. "They should be prepared to face us on the ballot," he added.