Henna application is part of the Islam culture and tradition, a lot of Muslim women wear it at a wedding and various celebrations, including Eid. In the coming days or weeks, don’t be surprised if you see our fellow Muslim sisters with wonderful and breathtaking henna Art on their nails and skin. “Our religion encourages women to beautify themselves and look good. In the time of Prophet Muhammad, women used it on nails and palms but as time went on, people started using it as decorative art,” Said Abdallah told the Star on Monday. Henna was also used by the Prophet Muhammad to dye his beard and his daughter, Fatima, used to make drawings on parts of his hands and palms. Likewise, Abu Bakar, the first caliph, also dyed his hair red. “The use of henna in Islamic cultures is emphasized as a Sunnah. A behavior, usually learned from the example of the prophet Muhammad, that is encouraged but it is not mandatory.” Abdalla said that use of henna is a visible marker to display an individual’s piety and devotion to the tradition and customs. "Eid Al Fitr, which is celebrated at the end of Ramadan, gives me a sense of unity and celebration of everything good because of the teaching and trials we face in Ramadan," says Fatuma. "Just like the way Christians dress up for Christmas we also dress up for Eid.” On Eid morning, you might choose to go to the mosque where you face hundreds of peoplefor the worship, so they try to look their best. “It’s a time that you feel excited to celebrate in style,” Yasmin said. "You basically don’t want to waste such a day, and personally, I feel find honor in dressing up for Eid. It's is a celebration bestowed by God, so I feel honored in showing up as my best self." Nanyuki-based model Aamira Abdi says it is customary for her and her family to buy new outfits come Eid time. “My sisters and I have fond memories of experimenting with style over the years. And doing this with friends and family gives me a good feeling, something I look forward to after Ramadhan.”