Following an underwhelming performance in Toulouse last weekend, Kenya Sevens will seek to redeem themselves when the London Sevens go down in Twickenham this weekend. However, it will be a mammoth task for Damian McGrath's Shujaa who open their Group B campaign against last weekend's losing finalists, Ireland, at 12:16 pm. Shujaa have lost both their encounters against the Irish this season, losing 29-7 in Dubai in November and 21-14 in Vancouver in March. Kenya's second match, at 3 pm, will be against Argentina, who are currently leading the standings with just two legs remaining —London and Los Angeles. Kenya lost 22-17 to the  South Americans in Dubai and face a Herculean task in securing a win against the inform Marcus Moneta and co. Shujaa's final match will be an Africa derby against South Africa at 6:08 pm. The Blitzbokke have won the two meetings between the two teams this season, 31-19 in Dubai and 26-5 in Singapore, and will want to bounce back from a disappointing Toulouse performance, where they failed to reach the Main Cup quarters alongside powerhouses New Zealand. Shujaa won only one group match at the Toulouse leg, beating Wales 19-14. They lost 29-5 to Fiji and 38-14 to France to drop to the classification matches where matters went from bad to worse. Here, they lost 24-12 to Scotland and 28-12 to Japan to finish 13th. On the standings, Shujaa are 12th with 38 points. Assistant coach Kevin Wambua said they will take one match at a time for the two-day tournament. "It's been a tough season for the boys but we will approach one match at a time and see if we can get a win or two,” said Wambua. The Mwamba tactician said the pool is wide open and that any team can win any of the matchups. "It's quite competitive and it may come down to the final two games to decide who qualifies for the quarters,” he observed. Elsewhere, the national sevens circuit enters its second leg this weekend with the Christie Sevens at the RFUEA grounds. Fresh from winning the Kabeberi Sevens, champions KCB face Pirates, Quins and Nakuru in Pool 'A'. Strathmore Leos have a date with Impala, Blak Blad and Daystar Falcons in Pool 'B'. Menengai Oilers headline Pool 'C' and face Kabras,  Masinde Muliro University and Nondies while Homeboyz, Mwamba, Western Bulls and Catholic Monks complete Pool 'D'.