Kenya Police are the winners of the Gold Cup Club Invitational hockey tournament after beating Exchequers 2-1 at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, Nairobi on Friday. Titus Kimutai was the hero of the day, his performance inspiring the law enforcers who shook off an early scare to bag the title. Captain Akaba Elikem gave Exchequers the lead with a poacher's goal, after capitalising on defender Sammy Oungo's poor clearance to tap home in the sixth minute. Brian Saina converted Oliver Echenje's short corner to draw the law enforcers level in the second quarter. Kimutai had the final say, scoring four minutes from regulation time to hand Police the title. Kimutai scored in all the three matches he featured. "Our reaction under pressure when the odds are against us is what we need to work on," said captain Elikem. The 35-year-old added: "Some refereeing decisions went against us but I am impressed with the way the young players have played throughout the tournament. I am sure we have had enough exposure to thrive in the national league beginning this weekend. We need to work on our conversion. " An elated Police captain Victor Wekesa dedicated the win to the late president Mwai Kibaki, saying they were in a sombre mood when Exchequers beat them 4-1 in the preliminaries a week ago. " We played according to our attacking script. We were more negative when we started the tournament because we were mourning the late president but we dedicate this trophy to him." He went on: "We lost some chances but it feels good to lift the trophy. Technically and tactically, we have a long way to go but we are not badly off." Robert Masibo was unlucky to hit the side net but Echenje was guilty of spanning out a clear-cut chance with only goalkeeper Dontoh Simon to beat. Exchequers' first choice shot stopper Offei Duisberg was substituted after hurting his knee. Police wrapped up the tournament with 12 points, ahead of Exchequers who placed second with 11. Elsewhere, USIU-A Mashujaa beat Strathmore Gladiators 2-1 to clinch third place with seven points. Lawrence Makhatsa and Bryan Kiplimo scored for Mashujaa, rendering Rawlins Sikholia's goal a consolation. Elikem was the top scorer after finding the back of the net seven times. Exchequers coach Richmond Attipo promised to reclaim the title next year with both federations keen to make the competition an annual event.