Kitui County Governor Charity Ngilu has cautioned Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka against rejecting the offer that he got from Azimio. Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga, while unveiling Martha Karua as his running mate, announced that Kalonzo would become the Chief Cabinet Secretary if Azimio forms the next government. Speaking in an interview on KTN News on Tuesday, Ngilu said that Kalonzo is a selfish leader and urged him to put the interest of the Kamba people ahead. “Kalonzo leaving Azimio is a very selfish way of looking at leadership in the sense that the Kamba has been out of the national government for the last 10 years,” Ngilu said. Ngilu said that Kalonzo cannot win the August polls by himself. "There are a few leaders within the wiper party who know that if they run on their own, they cannot win the election. But they are misadvising him and clinging on him so that they get re-elected," Ngilu said. She also described the leaders advising Kalonzo to contest the presidency as selfish. "They know very well that he cannot win and become the president of Kenya," she said. She said this just a day after Kalonzo announced that he had decamped from the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance and would run for the presidency on the Wiper ticket. The Wiper boss said his name had already been submitted to IEBC as Wiper Presidential candidate. In another interview on NTV, the governor urged the Kalonzo to reunite with Raila and urged the Kamba people to support Raila. “We as Kamba nation, if we don’t support Azimio, then we are going to lose. And we cannot afford to lose,” she said. Ngilu vowed to not only stick with the Azimio la Umoja but also persuaded Kalonzo to change his mind and go back to Azimio. "I must be honest I have not reached out to Kalonzo but I will reach out to him. In fact, I will make it personal business to call him. When I meet leaders I will tell them I am going to reach out to him and tell him that we are one community and he should come and help us lead this community," she said.