ANC  leader Musalia Mudavadi has told President Uhuru Kenyatta to desist from blaming his deputy, William Ruto, for the harsh economic times facing Kenyans. Mudavadi said Uhuru should have inspired Kenyans with his Labour Day speech instead of attacking his deputy for allegedly abandoning him. “Labour Day was an event to give workers hope because our economy has been failing. The cost of living is high and many Kenyans are jobless. Covid-19 came and contributed to the problems,” he said. “We were expecting Uhuru to give a speech that would be giving Kenyan workers hope. I am sorry to say that we were listening to a person who was not giving hope but a litany of his problems.” Mudavadi spoke in Kapsabet during thanksgiving event in Nandi county. He led a team comprising of Kenya Kwanza that was hosted by Nandi Governor Stephen Sang at Kapsabet showgrounds. In attendance were Ruto's wife Rachel Ruto, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua among other leaders. Mudavadi added that prices of basic commodities among them flour, milk and fuel had gone up but the government has been slow to put measures in place. “Mr President, the buck stops with you. You cannot stand up and tell the nation that prices of commodities have gone up because the DP is not with you," Mudavadi said. "Let us not lie to each other. When was the last time you called the full cabinet. Tell Kenyans about the last time you had an agenda on the table of the cabinet to reduce the high cost of living.” He added that Uhuru should just wait for his tenure to end and hand over power to the next president. “We have about 100 days to elections. Surely, if you have not solved the problems facing Kenyans, just take it easy and let the government of Kenya Kwanza provide the solutions,” he said. He said his ANC party united with Ruto’s UDA, Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) Muturi (DP) and other in the alliance to offer Kenyans solutions. “ ANC is a party that means well for the country, so is UDA, DP , Ford Kenya and other parties in the alliance. We came together and said  people must put personal interest aside for the country,” he said. Mudavadi added that Kenya Kwanza is committed to improving healthcare, end corruption and create jobs. He said the country’s huge public debt is largely to blame for the economic hardships. “Instead of tackling debts, you start attacking Ruto,” he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)