The Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) national league will throw off on June 4, it has been announced. Joseph Amoko, the KBF fixtures secretary, said the season will start with a refresher course for all referees followed by a pre-season tournament. This means the scheduled league tip-off, earlier set for this weekend, has now been pushed back until after the Annual General Meeting on May 21. “We did not hold the AGM due to lack of quorum. A new date has been set and after that, our programme for the year will start,” said Amoko. Amoko said they will pick top referees from the refresher course to handle both the tournament and the national league. “We will only use the best referees to handle our league matches. The assessment will be done after the refresher course,” he revealed. He directed all teams in the league to register their players and officials by May 6 in readiness for the new season. “This year we will not allow any individual to feature in the league without our special registration cards. All players and officials associated with any team must have cards,” he added. Amoko also wants all the teams with pending arrears unpaid to the federation to do so before the league starts or risk being locked out. Meanwhile, three Eldoret teams have held trials in the city and consequently recruited new players in preparation for the new season. Moses Muge, who manages Platinum Eldonets, Eldonets women and Shoot4Life said they have put in place a vibrant programme that will keep good players in Eldoret. “We want to develop players who will play up to the international level,” said Muge, adding: “We have plans to use homegrown talent during the league.” Platinum Eldonets play in the men’s Premier League, Eldonets women won promotion to the Premier League while Shoot4Life got promoted to Division One. Shoot4Life enlisted Walter Kipkoech, Bryce Kibiwot, Allan Juma and Franklin Mwangala while Fridah Anyango, Annette Anyango and Faith Chirchir will play for Eldonets women. Paddy Owuor, James Mbugua and Neville Otieno are now in the books of Platinum Eldonets.