Narc Kenya members in Nyanza and Western have lauded Azimio la Umoja presidential aspirant Raila Odinga for picking Martha Karua as his running mate. Led by regional coordinator Joshua Akongo, they said Raila made a historical, transformational and proud moment for all women in Kenya and Africa. "We laud Raila for his faith and confidence in women leadership. Indeed, he has once again proved his belief in progressive, libertarian and reformist leadership," he said. Akongo said by choosing Karua, Raila has sent a powerful message of gender equality to Kenyans and the world. "If elected, our party leader would not only be the first woman to serve in the second most powerful office in the land but also be the first under the 2010 Constitution, which she was an important part of," he said. He said the nomination of Karua had broken the gender barrier and described it as a moment for women in Kenya. Akongo said Karua’s background and history just like Raila’s speaks for itself. Karua, Akongo said, has been an activist at the forefront of the widening the democratic space and gender issues in Kenya. "The Narc Kenya leader has been involved in championing women rights through public interest litigation, lobbying and advocating laws that enhance and protect women rights," he said. "She did this through her work with women's organisations like the International Federation of Women Lawyers, the League of Kenya Women Voters and Maendeleo ya Wanawake." Akongo said Karua has demonstrated unmatched strength, determination and leadership in fighting for women. "On August 9, when she ascends to the office of deputy president elect, we know she will continue advancing her vision for the nation," he said. "Regardless of tribe, religion, gender, background and profession she will ensure everybody has access to opportunities to grow and succeed." Akongo urged Kenyans to remember despite its imperfections, Raila's decision was an important testament of what is possible when Kenya has progressive leaders. They pledged to campaign for Raila and Karua to deliver the presidency. (Edited by Tabnacha O)