Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri Anthony Muheria has said that the family of the late President Mwai Kibaki did not want political speeches during the funeral service held at Nyayo stadium in Nairobi. In an interview at Citizen TV on Monday, Muheria, who presided over the State funeral of Mzee Kibaki, said even during the burial, the family preferred a few speeches from specific politicians. He said this even as questions regarding the omission of Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka during the funeral ceremony of Kibaki were raised. Kalonzo who served as Kibaki's vice president between 2008 and 2013 was not among the speakers at the events, despite attending the State funeral in Nyayo Stadium and burial in Othaya. But on Monday, Muheria said that he was under strict instructions from the family not to allow politics on the podium. "The family of the late President Mwai Kibaki had expressly stated that they did not want political speeches and we respected that. In fact, the tributes were meant to be less than they were, " he said. The archbishop, however, affirmed that they gave the fallen leader a befitting sendoff that went according to the family's wishes. "We gave a worthy send-off to the third President as a country.  As a result, we had to forgo certain things that surely some people would feel were amiss but we tried our best in the circumstances to honour Kibaki." Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua had decried 'mistreatment' of  Kalonzo during the funeral of former President Mwai Kibaki. Kibaki was buried in Othaya on Saturday, a week after he died in Nairobi. Wambua felt the snub amounts to humiliation. "I take great exception to the mishandling of my party leader Kalonzo by state operatives during Kibaki's funeral service at Nyayo Stadium on Friday and the state burial in Othaya on Saturday," Wambua said in a statement on Sunday. He said it was not proper for Kalonzo not to be recognised during the services. "Try all you can, but you won't change history and you won't determine Kalonzo's destiny. We all know that Kalonzo was a loyal, able and effective vice president to Kibaki," Wambua said. The Senator said there is no way the success story of the grand coalition government (2008 to 2013) could be adequately discussed, while turning a blind eye to the pivotal role and immense contribution by Kalonzo. "Denying him an opportunity to eulogise his boss will not change this fact. May Kibaki's soul rest in God's eternal glory," he said. Also, some Kenyans felt that this was unfair. However, the Arch Bishop cleared the air concerning the matter.