Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee is not obliged to aid any top-flight club, head of leagues, and competitions Ali Amour has said. Amour was reacting to assertions made by Mathare United founder and chairman Bob Munro who castigated the retired judge Aaron Ringera-led committee for unjustifiably suspending and eventually relegating the Slum Boys from the Kenyan Premier League. In a letter penned on Tuesday to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee head of secretariat, Lindah Ogutu, Munro placed their woes at the feet of the defunct Caretaker Committee, saying it failed to disburse funds to clubs at an appropriate time. However, in an exclusive interview on Wednesday, Amour said Munro was being dishonest by implying that the Committee owed the club financial favors. “The club owner runs the club. They need to have their own funds and we are only meant to give them a stipend,” said Amour. “We were not obliged to give them any money and it's improper for them to imply so. Mathare's 24-year existence in the country's top-flight league was nipped in the bud after the Transition Committee sent them packing on May 15 following the three walkovers they dished out to Bandari, Ulinzi Stars and Sofapaka. In a letter signed by the head of secretariat Linda Ogutu and addressed to Mathare chairman Bob Munro, the committee said it invoked the FKF statutes in its decision. "We have in our possession the match officials' reports on your matches...pitting yourselves against Bandari, Ulinzi Stars and Sofapaka FC and which were scheduled to be played...," the statement read. "It is evident, therefore, that the said matches were not played for the reasons attributed to your team which failed to honour the fixtures and the same were thus awarded to your opponents. "As provided for by... the rules and regulations governing Kenyan Football which states; 'any club in a league format that does not turn up for three fixtures in a season and their explanation... is not accepted in all the three incidences to the FKF National Leagues and Competitions Committee, shall be suspended for the rest of the season, shall be relegated to a lower tier for the next season and may face other disciplinary action." “We therefore hereby write to you decreeing that having failed to play three matches in contravention of the above stated rule... Mathare United FC has been suspended from the FKF Premier League 2021/22 season and shall be relegated to the National Super League for the next season." Munro had accused the Committee of accelerating their woes by failing to disburse funds in good time. He pointed out that on December 22, 2021, Mathare shared a detailed note with the FKF CC on the escalating financial Instability of the top tier clubs and the Committee promised to work closely with the Ministry to cushion the clubs from financial instability. “On January 23, 2022, the FKF CC paid its second monthly grant for that month of Ksh 300,000. On April 23, our club had only enough funds either to cover the costs of our last eight matches or instead help reduce the financial pressures on our players and families … and chose the latter.” “If the FKF CC had paid its overdue grant arrears before April 23rd, our club could have avoided forfeiting any matches and instead been able to cover all the costs of our then eight remaining matches.” 