Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has urged vocational, technical colleges, universities and tertiary institutions to put in place the necessary tools for a smooth transition from 8-4-4 to CBC. Speaking at Meru University of Science and Technology on Friday, Magoha said the time is ripe for higher learning institutions to prepare well enough. “I urge stakeholders to continue working towards preparing for this new curriculum,” Magoha said in his speech read by Education PS Simon Nabukwesi. Magoha said the world is facing an economical recession brought about by the effects of the Covad-19 pandemic and made worse by the war in Ukraine. “It is a time like now that great innovations are made. Get solutions to problems and challenges facing the world, employment is now a necessity, it is upon us to find and create our homegrown solutions to problems facing our nation,” he said. Magoha said Kenya can grow and become an economic source if graduates work hard to find solutions to challenges and problems facing the nation through innovations. “Progress made, research portfolio has expanded, established international linkages with Universities and institutes to help and benefit students and staff in years to come,” he said. His speech was read during the graduation of 1,777 students. Meru University Vice Chancellor Romanus Odhiambo said the institution has engaged with the Ministry of Education in readiness for the CBC. “We are geared to do our part as an institution in the proper implementation of CBC in terms of teaching and support to teachers,” he said. Odhiambo said the institution has grown despite the pandemic challenges as over 10,000 students have enrolled. “It's your responsibility to change your world using skills learned and acquired. Climate change, food security and many others will provide opportunities for embracing technology and innovative ideas gained here,” he said. “Opportunities are there, one needs to identify a challenge and come up with a solution. Put your mind, heart and resources. Work with others.” Chancellor James Mwangi said it is impossible to solve a problem with the same thinking that created it. “In championing the African recovery and resilient plan, the common thing is knowledge, science, technology, innovation and enterprise and Meru University is well-positioned to contribute,” Mwangi said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris