It will be make-or-break for Kakamega Homeboyz as they take their last frantic stabs in the final two fixtures that have a great bearing on their chances of laying claim to their maiden top-flight title. Homeboyz head coach Benard Mwalala admits they will be heading into the encounters in the full knowledge that anything short of a win could spell doom for the dreams they have held onto throughout the season. After crushing 2-0 to AFC Leopards at Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday, Homeboyz are now level on points with Tusker who enjoy a healthier goal difference at the summit of the log and a further slip will hand the Ruaraka-based brewers the title on a silver platter. “We must go back to the drawing board. I don’t see anything that went wrong but we just need to work hard in the training and bag maximum points from our next two games,” Mwalala said while referring to the heartwrenching loss. Mwalala concedes he is struggling to come to terms with the fact that his charges squandered a nine-point lead as the second phase of the season roared back to life. “Yes we had a nine-point lead and I can’t explain what happened. I think such things do happen not just with Homeboyz but in many leagues across the world. We just need support from our supporters,” he pleaded. Homeboyz will look to take advantage of their home ground at Bukhungu Stadium when they flex muscles with high-flying debutants Talanta on June 4 before wrapping up the season in a tricky fixture against Kariobangi Sharks on June 11. Despite the alarming setbacks, Mwalala reiterated their burning urge to garnish their cabinet with a major silverware, adding they still have their sights firmly fixed on the ultimate prize. “We are not letting our guards down. We are still in contention,” Mwalala said. The seasoned gaffer who guided coastal side, Bandari, to the 2019 FKF Shield Cup title, says there are certain hurdles the club must first overcome if they are to realize their lofty ambitions. “As a coach, I know there are other things behind the scenes that have slowed us down. “There are some challenges we encounter which I prefer not to speak about here. At the end of the day, what matters is for each member of the team to play their part,” said Mwalala. The tactician has further placed their inconsistent form at the feet of a weak bench that is unable to rise to the occasion whenever called upon. “The subs hardly gel with the rest of the team whenever we effect changes in the course of the game, but that doesn't necessarily explain our deteriorating form,” he concluded.    