A mother jailed for four years for biting and cutting her nine-year-old daughter with a panga has lost her bid to have the sentence reduced. Vicky Chelangat was convicted on her plea of guilt last year and sentenced to four years for assault and subjecting her child to cruelty. Chelangat admitted to biting the minor on her shoulders and cutting her head with a panga in Narok. On that day she came home drunk. Being aggrieved with the sentence, she appealed saying it was harsh and excessive. On February 25, Justice Francis Gikonyo ruled that he had considered the nature, the manner of commission of the offence saying it was grave. The judge said it was characterised by serious bodily injuries to the minor, and the manner it was committed was savage. “I am satisfied that the entire appeal lacks merit and is hereby dismissed. I uphold the conviction and sentence of the trial court.” the judge ruled. The prosecution told the court the appellant used her hands in punching the victim, bit her and used a panga to cut her on the head. The court was told that on June 3, 2021, at 10pm, the complainant was at home with her two sisters and slept after taking supper. As they were sleeping the accused called them to open the door. One of the sisters opened the door and their mother fell. Chelangat was helped by one of her other daughters to the chair. They helped her up. The accused started crying and attacked the complainant. She started beating her, cut her on the head before dropping the panga. One of the sisters picked up the panga and hid it. The accused then left. The other sisters administered first aid to the victim and covered the wound with a mattress to absorb the blood. They then slept. The next morning a neighbour, Cheptoo, came to inquire why they were screaming the night before. They said their mother had beaten them and showed her the wounds. Cheptoo took the victim to the hospital and then to the police post. In her defence, Chelangat told the court that she had nothing to say.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris