Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka could be faced with legal hurdles in his bid to fly the party’s flag in the August 9 polls. For starters, time may not be on his side as his party, Wiper Democratic Movement, will have to quit the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition to be in a position to field a candidate for the election. Snippets of the highly-guarded agreement show that a political party is required to issue a 90-day notice to divorce from the coalition political party. This means Wiper will have to be in the Raila Odinga-led formation for at least three months after election. The Azimio agreement provides that no member of the coalition can quit six months before the election, and a window can only be opened three months after the polls. Kalonzo bolted out of Azimio in a huff on Monday and was nominated by Wiper as the party’s presidential aspirant, with Andrew Sunkuli as his running mate. However, the former vice president could be faced with the difficulties of separating from Raila’s coalition since the latter has already been named presidential candidate. Chances are high, and sources at IEBC have already indicated, that he may not be cleared to run following the ensuing technicalities. The IEBC has reportedly said Kalonzo can only be cleared if he presents a court decree handing him a reprieve to leave Azimio. With the registration deadline slated for June 6, and with Raila having named a running mate, his chances of being on the ballot are said to be getting slimmer. Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu painted a picture of the hurdles Kalonzo will face in his new exploits. She said her office will subject any coalition party member that seeks to leave the formation to the strict application of their respective agreements. Nderitu also said her office would apply the requirements of the Political Parties Act, which provides the manner in which a political party joins and quits a coalition. She said a party, once addressing itself to joining a coalition, must address the issues in the agreement in respect of how to exit a coalition. “A coalition is the one with the mandate to make the resolution of how a party should be exited,” Nderitu said. The Third Schedule of the parties’ law provides that a coalition agreement spells the process and mechanism upon which the coalition agreement may be amended. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, a Wiper MP and insider in the ongoing negotiations, was also clear the party cannot leave Azimio in the present arrangement. “Wiper is still in Azimio coalition. It cannot withdraw as of now, t current situation notwithstanding. Everything will be ironed out amicably,” he said on Tuesday. It is provided in the law that a coalition cannot join another coalition, and a party cannot be a member of two coalitions. This means he has neither chance of working with Kenya Kwanza nor running as an independent candidate, the deadline having lapsed on May 2. But Kalonzo’s men said they would get to the ballot, revealing that Wiper had quietly nominated Kalonzo as its presidential standard bearer. Makueni MP Dan Maanzo told the Star the nomination stands valid unless the party withdraws the same. “We had already presented his name to the IEBC before the signing of the Azimio coalition agreement,” the MP said. “We have many options. We are going to skin the Azimio cat. Why are they not working on a power-sharing agreement?” Maanzo said Azimio just filed its presidential nominations on Monday with the naming of Martha Karua as running mate hence had not presented any lists ahead of Wiper’s. “We can only withdraw Kalonzo's candidature on the day of presentation of paperwork. We had identified a running mate and complied with the May 16 deadline,” he said. “What was there was a presentation from ODM candidate. As far as Azimio is concerned, there was nothing on board until yesterday (Monday) when the coalition presented Raila and Martha’s names.  (edited by Amol Awuor)