Senator James Orengo has escalated his governor bid campaigns in Siaya days after picking William Oduol as his running mate. Oduol vied for the position in 2013 but lost to Governor Cornel Rasanga. Orengo, who is the ODM flagbearer, has since exited the national political scene, and has been meeting special interest groups to sell his dream for a better Siaya. His campaign projects a Siaya county where every dream is possible, thus the ‘Nyalore’ (it is possible) slogan. Last Saturday, Orengo was in Bondo constituency where he had a discussion with small-scale businessmen and women, masons and jua kali artisans. He also met Early Child Development Education teachers, other tutors and boda boda operators. On Sunday, the former Ugenya lawmaker was in Ugunja where he met mechanics, road clerks, market traders, boda boda riders, welders and road clerks. At the meetings, he initiated the formation of saccos for boda boda operators and enrolment with the National Health Insurance Fund. “Personally, I have never engaged in the politics of name calling but someone always wakes up to call my name, and I am not yet the governor. Let us stop petty politics,” Orengo told a gathering at Ajigo in Bondo. Although Orengo is yet to officially unveil his manifesto, a source in his inner circle told the Star he will prioritise the construction of Siaya County Referral Hospital to modern status in his first few days in officer. The senator is also urging voters to elect only those with the ODM ticket, in what has become known as ODM six-piece 'suit'. On Saturday, he was joined in his campaigns by Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo and a host of other MCA vying on ODM ticket. Supporters of Orengo present him as a senior counsel of many years and of high integrity, who is best placed to steer the county as governor. Orengo’s running mate, Oduol, is a businessman and a former Westcon-Comstor Africa Chief Executive Officer. In 2013, Oduol said he had won the governor contest against EALA MP Oburu Odinga. The victory would, however, be controversially handed over to a less popular Rasanga, who is the outgoing governor after two terms in office. Oduol hails from Alego-Usonga constituency which has the highest number of voters in Siaya county. It is expected that his pairing with Orengo will boost their chances of winning the top seats. The duo will face off with former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and his running mate Charles Owino, both of United Democratic Movement.  (edited by Amol Awuor)