@ppcheti Former Lamu Deputy Governor Eric Mugo has ditched Mwangi Kiunjuri’s The Service Party for Martha Karua’s Narc Kenya as his preferred campaign vehicle. Mugo who is seeking to unseat incumbent Fahim Twaha admitted to a fallout between him and Kiunjuri over unmatched political inclinations. He said while he wasn’t fully registered as a TSP member, he was more of a marketer, something that made him think twice about his position. Mugo however said he remains friends with Kiunjuri. “We had planned on how to align to the same interests but in the end, they didn’t align and so I had to move out,” he said. Speaking after he was unveiled as Narc Kenya governor aspirant for Lamu, Mugo said his decision was fueled in part by the fact that it had been his political launchpad back when he was still in university in 2012. He said he is also awed by the principles that Karua has installed for the party. “I only quit Narc Kenya when I had to deputise former Lamu governor Issa Timamy of ANC party, a position he held from 2013 to 2017. But I am back to where it all started,” Mugo said. He said his belief in multiparty democracy and freedom led him back to the party as he wants to focus on quality leadership, unquestionable integrity, and is free of corruption. “Narc Kenya has stood a long test of time. Many influential parties have come and gone this party has withered through it all,” Mugo said. He said his agenda is to defend Lamu's interests, protect the rights of the people and promote the general well-being of the county. “Today, wiser, more experienced and with immense humility my journey towards the stewardship of Lamu begins,” he said. He pledged to invest in the Agriculture and Fisheries sectors which form the economic backbone of Lamu. “We will improve our scholarships to cater for the less privileged who can hardly meet the 300 marks threshold. I will improve healthcare and ensure our hospitals are well stocked,” Mugo said. “Serving as a deputy governor was one of the greatest privileges. With the unwavering support, no burden was too heavy and no price was too high in ensuring we lay the foundation for a well-established devolved system in our county.” While drumming up support for Karua to be appointed Raila's running mate, Mugo termed Karua as a strong and straight woman who had not been mentioned in any corrupt dealings or scandals. “She is a firm believer of good leadership and clean politics, seasoned and principled politician with lots of integrity,” he said. Mugo recalled an instance when Karua served as Justice Minister during the reign of late President Mwai Kibaki when she had to resign in protest of a corruption scandal then. “The fact that she resigned from such a position because there were things she morally disagreed with tells you the kind of leader she is. That's what Kenya needs,” he said. “I call upon the people of Lamu to support Raila Odinga and Martha Karua to be the president and deputy, for us to enjoy quality leadership, free of corruption.” Edited by Kiilu Damaris