Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) head of corporate and regulatory affairs, Judith Sidi Odhiambo, has urged the women’s volleyball team to be good brand ambassadors of the institution. Speaking on Wednesday while handing over the corporate flag to the traveling contingent at Kencom in Nairobi, Odhiambo challenged the team to bring the African Women’s Club Volleyball Championship title home. "KCB has undisputed leaders to represent the brand well. Finishing in the top three will mark progress. We are counting on you (players) to take this club to the next level and you fully have our support," Odhiambo said. She went on:" Let's go and showcase our best skills and expertise. Live with our values of being the pride and learn from what others are doing. Bring the cup home so that we can have a course to celebrate." "Despite covid, the technical bench has done exceptional job to assemble and prepare the team," Odhiambo apty finalised. The 10-day annual African showpiece serves off this weekend in Tunisia, with Kenya Prisons and Kenya Pipeline also representing the country. KCB and Pipeline leave on Thursday while Prisons travel on Friday, the same day the draw will be conducted. Charlotte Obado has been tasked to head the bankers' delegation while experienced former pipeline gaffer Japheth Munala is the head coach. David Muthui is the assistant coach and Eunice Maiyo is the trainer. Paul Bitok, the Malkia Strikers coach who also remains in the Kenya Volleyball Federation deputy presidential race in the polls set for next month, is the technical director. The bankers gave last year's edition a wide berth owing to the challenges occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. Most of their players were also involved in national women’s team, Malkia Strikers' preparations for the delayed Tokyo Olympic Games. A disastrous performance saw the moneybags finish ninth in the 2019 version. The men's edition ended on Monday with record champions AL Ahly retaining the title after beating Tunisia's Esperance 3-1. Kenya's representatives Kenya Ports Authority and Equity Bank finished fifth and 10th respectively. Editing by Tony Mballa