Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition has  unveiled 16  individuals who will lead its presidential campaigns in Nairobi. Led by  Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and Gender CAS Rachel Shebesh, the team will be in charge of ‘selling’ the manifesto of Azimio's presidential hopeful Raila Odinga. The team of 16 include aspirants defending their seats, new comers and those who missed out in ODM and Jubilee primaries. They include Azimio governor aspirant Polycarp Igathe, Senate hopeful Edwin Sifuna, Woman Representative Esther Passaris, Governor Ann Kananu, nominated Senator Beatrice Kwamboka and President of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Richard Ngatia. Also Langata MP aspirant Felix Odiwour, alias Jalang'o, Dagoretti South Jubilee aspirant Dennis Waweru and former Kasarani MP Elizabeth Ngoro also form the team. Other are incumbent MPs Anthony Oluoch ( Mathare), Babu Owino ( Embakasi East), Tj Kajwang(Ruaraka), George Aladwa (Makadara) and Mercy Gakuya(Kasarani), Ndirangu Waihenya (Roysambu), Julius Mawathe (Embakasi South) and Yussuf Hassan from Kamukunji, Aspirants Harrison Wangoro(Embaksi North), Mark Mwenje (Embakasi West), Samuel Mwangi (Embakasi central) and Amos Mwago (Starehe). Wanyonyi, last month dropped his governor bid in favour of Igathe, while Shebesh is not contesting for any seat. "I have told baba that he should give me the chance to manage Nairobi affairs. We must start to plan ourselves early. This will be my very last term in Westlands and I will hand over to the young turks," he said. The Azimio team will face Kenya Kwanza Alliance Nairobi team led by Senator Johnson Sakaja, who is the coalition’s governor pick, with former Absa Bank Kenya Limited CEO James Njoroge Muchiri as his running mate. Former Starehe lawmaker Margaret Wanjiru was fronted for the Senate seat while nominated Senator Millicent Omanga will run for Woman Rep. Incumbent MPs George Theuri (Embakasi West), Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), David Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Nixon Korir (Lang'ata) form part of the team. Others are former Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi (Westlands aspirant), Chapia Bukachi ( Dagoretti North), Billian Ojiwa( Mathare) and Augustie Mwafrika who is seek the Roysambu parliamentary seat. Other aspirants on the team include Boaz Chelugut ( Ruaraka), Anthony Waithaka (Makadara) Robow Mohamed Hassan (Kamukunji), Albanus Kalumba (Embakasi South), McDonald Mariga(Kibra) John Njoroge (Kasarani), Francis Mureithi (Embakasi East) and Simon Mbugua (Starehe). (Edited by Tabnacha O)