@alalmaurice Nyando MP aspirant Patrick Ouya has been endorsed by elders from Kadibo to run for the seat on an independent ticket. Ouya alias Kalausi wants to unseat the incumbent MP Jared Okelo who has been given a direct ODM ticket. The former Kisumu chief of staff decided to contest the seat as an independent after ODM failed to conduct nominations for the Nyando MP seat. Elders led by Rev Henry Akonde on Monday said they have settled on Ouya to face Okelo. Akonde, the Luo Council of Elders member from Kabonyo, said the decision was reached after they summoned their sons who had shown interest in the seat. “We have unanimously decided to endorse Ouya after prevailing upon the other candidates to step down. We want to have one candidate to battle for the seat to deliver victory,” he said. Akonde, who addressed the press conference after a closed-door meeting at a Kisumu hotel on Monday, said as a community they are united to ensure the people of Nyando get a representative that is people-driven. Nyando MP aspirant Sam Onjoro attended the meeting while Willis Orowe, who has also been eying the seat, did not attend. “We want a leader who is elected by the people to go and champion for our interests and initiate developments which can transform our lives and empower the youth,” he said. Akonde said the elders were shocked to learn the ODM party had given a direct ticket to Okelo instead of subjecting all the aspirants to nominations to allow residents to vote for leaders of their choice. He said the community has therefore resolved to rally behind their son. The elders called on residents to unite saying they will vote for the Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga to ensure he clinches the presidency. Ouya thanked the elders for the confidence and faith they have in him and promised not to disappoint them and the electorates. He said he will reach out to other candidates in the constituency for a consensus, to produce one candidate who will challenge Okelo. “We were supposed to meet the three candidates from Kadibo but only two attended. After deliberations the people unanimously agreed to support me as their candidate,” Ouya said. He said they are negotiating with other people from other divisions which they expect to be concluded by the end of next week to file one candidate. Ouya claimed the people of Nyando were being denied the opportunity to democratically nominate a candidate of their choice. “We have been very faithful to ODM but we felt betrayed so I am running as an independent candidate. Let the people decide,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris