Suna East MP Junet Mohamed on Saturday asked Deputy President William Ruto to respect Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua and women in general. Junet told the DP to stop demeaning Karua by calling her names. "Nimesikia amesema Raila amechukua mama mmoja hapa. Wewe wacha madharau. Heshimu wamama. Yule mama anaitwa Honorable Martha Karua. Wacha madharau tafadhali," Junet said during the Azimio campaign rally in Kilgoris, Narok county. Loosely translated to: "I heard him (Ruto) saying Raila has chosen a woman in a derogatory manner. Stop the disrespect. Respect women. That woman is called Honorable Martha Karua. Stop the disrespect, please". Junet added Raila has bestowed respect on women by picking Karua to be the first woman deputy president of Kenya in the event Azimio wins the presidency. Kisii Senator aspirant Richard Onyonga, also present in Kilgoris, equally expressed his disapproval of Ruto's remarks. "We have told Ruto we don't have an issue with his campaigns but the insults towards an honourable, learned and humble woman such as Martha Karua is wrong," he said. On Friday, Ruto said the ODM leader settled on Karua out of confusion after sensing he could not beat his agenda for the Mt Kenya region. "Wakati walisikia tunapanga mipango ya mama mboga, na wale wote kuanzia chini tukienda juu, yule mtu wa kitandawili akakimbia kumchukua mama mmoja na kumfanya running mate wake, kwa sababu ya kuchanganyikiwa," Ruto said during the Alliance's Embu County economic forum. Loosely translated to: "When they (Azimio) heard we were planning to lift mama mbogas and all those struggling to eke a living, Raila went ahead and chose a woman running mate out of confusion". On Wednesday, Karua urged all leaders to respect one another during their campaigns regardless of their political ideologies. "No matter where you stand, we can disagree without insults and heckling. Because after August 9th, we will have to still live with one another,” Karua said in a tweet.