Nanyuki High School has decentralised management, grouping the learners according to 'form schools'. A form school is an administrative unit, where each class has a principal, deputy and curriculum master who report to overall school deputy principal. With a population of almost 1,400 students, the school has devised ways to ensure every student is monitored. Ranging from academic, social and personal discipline, the students have a platform to aid their success. The school received the highest number of applications for Form 1 admission. It received 156,003 applications against a capacity of 480 students. Kabianga High had 149,087 against 528 slots and Pangani Girls 118,073 against a population of 336. Maseno School received 110,811 against 576 slots, Nakuru High(107,915 against 336 slots) and Alliance Girls (104,353 against 384). Others are Kapsabet Boys(99,725), Butere Girls (98,410), Mang’u High (93,648) and Moi Girls Eldoret (92,666). Services close to students Nanyuki High deputy principal in charge of curriculum Gitonga Kingori says the form school structure allows for close monitoring by teachers. “If a case cannot be handled by the class teacher, it is forwarded to the deputy principal of that form, if not it’s taken to the form principal,” Gitonga said. Taking a case to the overall deputy will depend on whether the form principal is also unable to handle the matter. This, the deputy said, has seen discipline and learner-centered  issues being dealt with efficiently. Gitonga spoke during an interview at the school located in Nanyuki town, Laikipia county. The form heads are chosen on the basis of ability to deal with matters diligently. The students are further grouped into teacher-parent families of five to six students per teacher. Teachers take the role of parenting and put aside their hats as teachers, they meet in unofficial setups to discuss with the learner. “Students talk to teachers about any issues affecting them individually without just focusing on education,” Gitonga said. During the meetings, teachers lower the bar and fit in the learners’ shoes, like wearing the same t-shirts as them. Further on Tuesdays from 7:30 am to 7:55 am, every stream holds class meetings to address concerns affecting learners. Whenever a student is going through tough issues that require professional attention, they are referred to the guidance and counselling department. The department has 15 members and a students council representing learners. Creativity School principal Oliver Minishi said dealing with the current generation of students requires innovation and creativity. Minishi, former Kakamega High principal, said this idea has proven to adapt to changing trends. “You have to be creative, particularly to make students feel like they are at home, they are loved and they need to perform,” Minishi said. The Maths and Physics teacher said this has worked well for him even at his former school. “You have to do something interesting for them, if you ask me what I will do tomorrow, I don’t know but I know I’ll wake up with an idea,” he said. This realisation has seen Minishi develop a special focus on ensuring the growth of learners’ abilities. This he does by ensuring extracurricular activities are well managed and that students show their full potential. For instance, every Monday morning students control the school parade. The journalism club with the help of the film and animation department has been able to create videos and films. Their music club performed during the commonwealth conference held at Safari Park. Technical subjects The school is a centre of nurturing holistic students, seen from the 22 examinable subjects being offered. Most of the subjects were introduced in 2018 and have shown a remarkable performance since then. The first Aviation class sat KCSE in 2020 and posted a mean score of 10 points. “What drives them is the passion that’s why most of them perform well in technical courses,” Gitonga said. In 2021 KCSE results, the top five best performed subjects were technical. Computer Studies had a mean score of 11.9, Woodwork (11.8), Electricity (11.6). Aviation(11.25), French (10.8), Agriculture (9.2) and Business Studies (8.5). The technical subjects offered are Business (compulsory at Form 1), French, Music, Building and Construction and Computer Studies. Others are Art and Design, Drawing and Design, Home Science, Aviation, Electricity, Woodwork and Agriculture. Students are given an opportunity to choose which technical course they like according to their passion. However, for Aviation which is the most coveted subject, there are requirements to be met. The students must have shown exemplary performance in Maths and Physics. Minishi said the focus on technical subjects allows students to explore their areas of interest. “We focus on the students’ interest and ensure it is grown to the highest level,” Minishi said. Surprisingly, a good number of the students also like Home Science. The subject, which entails practicals like cooking and knitting, is mostly loved by female learners. The school also has an initiative called 'Balancing Act', which ensures a student excels both in academic and extracurricular activities. The list has the students name, grade, points and activity they take part in. For instance, a student who scored an A  of 80 points was also a member of the drama/music clubs. (Edited by Tabnacha O)