Members of Parliament will now refund Sh1.2 billion house allowance they paid themselves illegally. The MPs will each pay back Sh2.8 million they each received in house allowance. This is after the lawmakers lost a bid at the Supreme Court to stop the order of the High Court that directed them to pay back the money. In the case, the MPs moved to the apex court after the Court of Appeal declined to suspend the order that required them to pay back the allowances within one year. In 2020, the High Court ruled that the MPs had unlawfully given themselves the allowances and ordered PSC to recover the money from them. In a ruling delivered on Thursday, the Supreme Court judges dismissed their application and sent them back to the Appellate Court. The bench led by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu ruled that the substantive appeal was still pending before the Court of Appeal for hearing and determination. They said the appeal was based on a ruling of an application that had been filed at the appellate court. “We find that the notice of motion challenging the exercise of discretion by the Court of Appeal in absence of a substantive judgement is premature and does not meet the threshold under Article 163(4) of the constitution” the court ruled. In their case, the MPs had said in declining to grant them the stay of application ordering them to refund the Sh 1.2 billion that had been paid out to them, it rendered their appeal before the Appellate Court nugatory. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission and activist Okiya Omtatah had challenged the Sh250,000 house allowance that the 416 MPs awarded themselves. A three-judge bench has directed the Clerk of the Senate and National Assembly to recover in full from the salaries and allowances of each MP the entire money paid to them as accommodation. Justices Weldon Korir, Pauline Nyamweya and John Mativo unanimously ruled that SRC acted within its mandate by directing Clerks of Parliament not to pay the impugned allowance which did not interfere with the constitutional independence of parliament and PSC. Omtatah who sued the MPs had said the payment is a double benefit as house allowance is already included by SRC in MPs’ gross pay. He said no state officer is paid a house allowance outside their gross pay, hence, any house allowance payment outside the gross pay is unconstitutional.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris