Baringo Central constituency is contested by two distant blood brothers seeking the MP seat— the UDA candidate and his distant-third relative, an independent. It's a political showdown and a two-horse race between the incumbent, UDA party nominee Joshua Kandie, and his brother, fellow 'Kapchepsoi' clansman Sammy Mwaita, an independent candidate. "Personally, I have got no problem with anybody competing with me. All I want is only to call upon the IEBC to conduct a free and fair election and allow the voters to decide, "Mwaita said. The two distant blood-related candidates spoke while presenting their documents for clearance to the IEBC on Monday and Sunday. Mwaita, who served two terms between 2007 and 2017, pledged a serious campaign to dethrone his brother Kandie, the incumbent, in the August 9 general election. "Yes, Kandie and me are related but from a wide clan called Kapchepsoi. For many years the family has grown so big to the extent some people may even get confused and intermarry," he said. He said employing jobless youth and establishing a county university were priorities. "It is so sad to see university and college graduates idling and frustrated at home without jobs. If I was the MP today, I would help hustle jobs for them," Mwaita said on Monday. But Kandie said even without a university so far in Baringo, he has raised enrolment of the Kapsoo Technical College in his constituency from 300 students to more than 3,500 from across the country. "My personal vision is to promote technical skills and courses to enable Baringo Central and Kenyan youths to get fast access to job opportunities and employment. He said in his second term, if he is reelected in August, he will focus his energy and resources on employment, youth and women's empowerment. Close allies feared the two may have failed to take time and resolve their personal and family differences, so they may spill over into politics. Kandie won the April 14 UDA primaries, garnering 10,652 votes, while the Assembly Speaker David Kiplagat received 7,360 votes, conceded defeat and bolted out of the race to support the party. But Mwaita, who came a distant third scooping 2,139 votes, stuck in the race, saying it was his democratic right. "After all, UDA and its presidential candidate William Ruto require votes from all communities in Baringo and we independent candidates will be in a better position to mobilise them" he said. He told off UDA presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua for asking him to drop his independent candidature. "I can't deny Gachagua being my close friend. I will support him with DP Ruto to clinch the presidency but he should in return respect and leave us to sort ourselves here on the ground" Mwaita said. (Edited by V. Graham)