The Lamu County Public Service Board has officially unveiled the audit report for the third Human Resource Audit in the county. Speaking when he launched the report, board chairperson Abdalla Fadhili said the audit targeted more than 100 work stations in the county. A total of 1,693 personnel were also audited in a period of three months. "We have been able to weigh our compliance with constitutional obligations on public service inclusivity, which is one of our fundamental aims, through the audit exercise," Fadhili said. "Data collection required three months, followed by four months for data cleaning, processing, analysis, interpretation and final recommendations." According to the data, Lamu county has employed 25 persons with disability, which is about 1.5 per cent of the total workforce. It also revealed the county achieved a gender representation of 59 per cent for male and 41 per cent for female. The data said youth representation is at 48.2 per cent while indigenous communities are represented by 67 per cent. The representation of marginalised people stands at 25 staff members from the Boni and Sanye communities, which translates to 1.5 per cent of the work force. Fadhili said other core objectives of the audit included the necessity to compare payroll data with information received from the audit survey. "This audit report has enabled us to find out the total number of county employees and in post per department," he said. "We have also done an assessment of skills available in the public service for proper placement within different county departments. "We have also successfully assessed the composition of staff in the county in terms of employment, need for succession plan, in addition to inclusivity... as stipulated by our Constitution." Finance executive Abdu Godana, who received the report on behalf of the governor, hailed the move saying it would aid in improving staff performance. “This audit report will help the county determine the actual number of employees, their work stations, gender, those with disabilities and those who require promotion, among other issues," Godana said. "This will ensure the county is up to speed on employment law, is compliant and follows best practices." According to the report, 112 county employees did not participate in the audit. The board proposed the suspension of salaries of the employees to allow inquiries and verification into their existence. Among others, the report has recommended the county develops a succession plan matrix that includes promotions, recruiting, upgrades, re-designations, redeployments and trainings.  (edited by Amol Awuor)