Driving has to be one of the most dangerous tasks one undertakes in life. Every second or minute spent behind the wheel is often a risk, which may become reality in the blink of an eye. The cold-blooded murder of a man in Mirema almost a fortnight ago was a stern reminder that we should all expect the unexpected. Danger lurks in every corner of our roads and, therefore, it behoves every driver to have a safety plan in mind. Hence, defensive driving is where you are conscious of your surroundings and on the lookout for any situations on the road, which may compromise your safety. An important tip for defensive driving is to always beware of your surroundings. You should be hawk-eyed at any suspicious behaviour by other motorists or even pedestrians. Always check your rear-view mirror for any questionable movements by drivers behind you. You should be careful about cars that seem to maintain a consistent distance between you two rather than overtake when given the chance. You should also be mindful about where you park your vehicle during your normal errands. Ensure the parking lot is well lit and quite accessible to as many people as possible. Dangerous situations, such as carjacking or shootings, occur when the driver is alighting or getting into his car. Therefore, you would be much safer parking in areas that are well lit and in an open location, where there are many people. Apart from being watchful, your ears should be perked up for any suspicious sounds. Even when listening to music, you should do so at an appropriate volume, where you can clearly hear what is going on in your surroundings. Equally important to remember is to always keep your doors locked and windows rolled up, especially in places you have never been to before. It helps to keep your windows tinted for it prevents carjackers or muggers from seeing the valuables inside the car. It is worth remembering that criminals have nowadays devised new ways of pouncing on their victims, including posing as people in need of help. As much it is a noble thing to be a good Samaritan, for your personal safety, it would be better to avoid stopping or even providing lifts to strangers. This is especially so during ungodly hours of the night as well as in places you have never been to before. Such people in distress may later turn on you and cause a lot of harm. In case you are cornered by suspicious people, it is better to find a way and escape on foot from the scene. Your life is more precious than your car, so you should definitely choose it when it comes down to the two.