Parents enrolling learners in Form 1 have decried tough demands and hiked prices of school items. Wednesday being the official admission day, parents and learners trooped their selected schools. Besides being asked to clear first term fees, parents were also met with exaggerated prices of items. At Gikomba market parents were stranded with their children trying to find suitable prices for items. Most essential items required for admission had their prices doubled. “A metal box that previously cost Sh1,200 is now Sh2,500 and I have to pay fare which is also hiked,” a parent told the Star. Some parents who could not afford the metal boxes chose to buy different bags, instead. “My daughter will have to travel with a suitcase; I hope the school will allow her. Then when I get money I’ll buy her a box,” another parent said. Prices of commodities were increased depending on the type and size. The vendors blamed the hike on the increase in iron sheet prices, operation costs as well as tough economic times. A visit to an extra-county school within Nairobi was met with concerned parents. The school asked them to pay Sh17, 500 for bedding, and another Sh24, 500 for uniforms. Items listed under bedding include bed covers, a pair of sheets, a mattress, and two blankets. “We were asked to pay Sh40, 000 which is the school fees for the first term before our children are admitted. That’s the first requirement,” the parent said. The uniforms include two trousers, two shirts, sweater, blazer, school jumper, tie, half sweater, branded school games kit and track suit. Other groups of parents crowded at Gikomba market scouting for outlets where they could get affordable uniform. Luckily for these parents, schools didn’t send them to specific outlets. However, they are not allowed to buy other accessories outside the school. “We might not be paying heavily for uniforms but we are paying for things like buckets, basins, bedding, utensils and other things,” the parent said. She added that the school clarified that the items will be bought in school for uniformity and to reduce theft. Another extra-county school listed items worth Sh11, 000 to be paid  in school; aside from bedding. One pair of long trousers (Sh950), one pair of shorts (Sh700), long-sleeved shirt (Sh650), a long-sleeved sweater (Sh1,050), games kit (Sh1,000) and a jumper (Sh2,000). Despite today being the official opening day, a number of parents are still hunting for secondary school slots. Parents blamed the computerised selection for placing their children in far-flung schools. For instance, a learner who sat her KCPE in Nairobi and scored 289 marks was placed in a school in Vihiga county. The parents had to seek an alternative institution within Nairobi, which they are yet to find. “The long holiday slowed down things, I should have found a school by last week on Friday but people were on break,” a parent said. In Bungoma admissions have also been faced with delayed bursaries from  Elimu Scholarship and Bungoma County Scholarship. A letter was sent out on April 30 by the county to beneficiaries said the bursary will be effective from May,22. This means parents have to cater for admission needs before the bursary chips in. The scholarship will cater for tuition fees and not uniforms and extra levies for a maximum of four years. Elimu Scholarships will be made available starting next week, with the deadline set for May,6. The scholarships will be given to 9,000 beneficiaries, among them 4,000 from the slums. Orphans, students with special needs who attained below 280 marks might be considered. The scholarship caters for transport to and from school, school fees, school kit, and pocket money for four years. (Edited by Tabnacha O)