Former Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi has promised to prioritise  livestock and health if elected. He unveiled his eight-point agenda on Tuesday. The other issues are water, drought, uplifting the youth, traders and ensuring county employees receive all their dues. Abdullahi, who will contest the seat on the ODM ticket, said he will revive projects as the county is facing development retardation. He addressed members of the Maqabul sub-clan of the Ogaden community accompanied by his running mate, Abdi Muhumed. The former governor said for any meaningful development to be achieved, the input of all residents must be incorporated. "It is unfortunate that our county has been sent decades back and set to factory reset, by those who destroyed the gains we made. Inshallah, we shall build and bind all that we lost,” he said. "I come before you with highlights of my manifesto, as I seek the mandate to restore hope in our county." During Abdullahi's tenure, the county made numerous development strides after lagging behind following decades of marginalisation. Abdullahi said he will re-introduce maternal starter packs in maternities and empower women with adequate funding to support their ventures. “Just like I once had a dream to carpet the sandy roads of Wajir with tarmac and transform all sectors of our county, I am also ready to realise these dreams because I have an agenda for Wajir,” he said. The former governor also said he will restore hope to traders by clearing all pending bills, as well as hiring qualified youth in 100 days. Abdullahi said he will revive meat processing and exportation plans to tap into the economic potential of the livestock sector. He promised to initiate special programmes to address drought and revive plans for tapped water across the county. Abdullahi said his team is overwhelmed by the support from residents and he is confident he will recapture the seat. The community members led by Abdi Hussein said they will support his candidature. They said he is the county's best bet to restore hope to residents. “We will embark on vigorous grassroots mobilisation to ensure that our people back your bid,” Hussein said. He said community members drawn from different parts of Wajir have promised to walk with them in the journey of hope and are looking forward to collaborations. "We remain grateful and inspired by their endorsement as we seek to restore hope to our fellow residents. Enduring five years of suffering has not been easy but we have faith in you,” Hussein said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)