Kenyans have been cautioned against electing leaders based on handouts. I Choose Life Africa CEO Mike Mutungi said the electorate should avoid electing bad leaders who bribe them during campaigns. Mutungi said receiving money from politicians is like signing a contract to vote for them. He said Kambas had christened the handouts "Kutunivwa", which is part of propagating corruption. The CEO addressed the press during a pre-election debate at Machakos University on Friday. The debate was for aspirants contesting for governor, senator, and woman representative in Machakos county. “I Choose Life Africa is primarily for empowering youths in different parts of Kenya. It has launched a programme dubbed 'Nani Kiongozi in Machakos county',” Mutungi said. The CEO said they held the debate in Machakos University since it is a centre for learning, transformation and where ideas, research and innovation should be happening. Aspirants were each given a platform to sell their manifesto. They were put to task by the panelists to explain how they would deliver on water, health, safety and security, education, leadership and governance. The aspirants were also queried on how they would ensure accountability if elected. Mutungi said this is a new Kenya and once the leaders are elected, they will start performance management to follow up on what they promised. More than 1,000 voters attended the debate and posed questions to the aspirants. The CEO said although some aspirants never attended, all had been invited to the debate. Those who attended included Bernard Mungata, who said the platform enabled him to interact with the electorate and sell his campaign manifesto. Mungata said it iwas sad that only three out of 16 people contesting for the Senate position attended the debate. Machakos Deputy Governor Francis Maliti, who is contesting for governor, said the debate was good and timely. Maliti said the platform had given him an opportunity to tell the electorate what he would do once elected. He termed it an eye opener since voters asked questions without fear. The organisers had questionnaires that went round, for the electorate to fill and give points to each of the aspirants making their presentations. Woman representative aspirants included Selina Mwende Kioko (Jubilee) and Rita Ndunge (Maendeleo Chap Chap). Senatorial aspirants were Bernard Muteti Mungata, Dickson Kimathi and Maureen Ndugwa. Gubernatorial aspirants were Maliti (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Joseph Musyoka (Usawa Party). This is despite the governor race attracting other aspirants such as Nzioka Waita (CCU), Wavinya Ndeti (Wiper), Johnsone Muthama (UDA) and Rose Mulwa. Others eyeing the woman representative seat are incumbent Joyce Kamene (Wiper) and Eunice Nzilani Mutua (UDA). (Edited by Bilha Makokha)