Tusker head coach Robert Matano is now convinced they are a heartbeat away from retaining their title after they stunned leaders Kakamega Homeboyz 2-0 at Ruaraka grounds on Sunday to keep the race open. Goals from Tanzanian forward Ibrahim Joshua and Ugandan Deogratious Ojok at both sides of the interval were all the brewers needed to silence their opponents at home, effectively reducing their gap to a solitary point as the race assumed a new perspective. Matano has, however, warned his changes against complacency even as the cutthroat competition enters the home stretch with only seven matches remaining on the card. “I must say we were better than our opponents this afternoon even though they gave us quite a run for our money. I'm happy with the outcome and, hopefully, we shall be able to collect maximum points from our remaining fixtures to keep our title hopes alive,” Matano said. His opposite number, Benard Mwalala was upset, saying his charges squandered an opportunity to cement their foothold at the summit of the log. “It's unfortunate that we are losing steam at the later stages of the competition when the reverse should be preferable. The race will, seemingly, go to the wire but we don't feel any sort of pressure as a result of the slim gap that now exists between us and Tusker,” Mwalala said. Homeboyz now have 56 points after Sunday's outcome, with Tusker a point adrift. At Moi Stadium, Kasarani, the 94th edition of the Mashemeji derby lived up to its billing with both AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia exhibiting peculiar flair and talent throughout the proceedings for a 1-1 draw. After a flurry of missed opportunities by both sides in the opening phases of the action-packed encounter, Victor Omune ultimately fired Leopards ahead with a splendid strike on the half-hour mark after being superbly teed up by fleet-footed offensive midfielder Peter Thiong'o. However, K'Ogalo emerged from the tunnel after the breather more intent and determined and it wasn't long before they restored parity in the 51st minute. Determined to break a persistent winless jinx against their opponents, Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems effected an early tactical change when he introduced defensive midfielder razor-sharp striker Maxwell Otieno for defensive midfielder Eugene Mukangula in a bid to wreak more havoc on their opponents' final third. Following the draw, Gor Mahia remain rooted in the fourth spot with 47 points while Leopards ascended to the ninth with 39. Vihiga Bullets pulled off a major surprise after rallying from behind to beat Kariobangi Sharks 4-3 at Kasarani Annex. Victor Ogolla was the toast of the day, grabbing a brace for the visitors while Robert Arrot and Philip Muchuma netted a goal apiece. Sharks replied through Patillah Omoto, Eric Mmata and Steve Otieno. Elsewhere, KCB shared spoils with debutants Talanta after playing out to a two-all draw at Kasarani Annex