The number of donkeys in Kenya is dwindling at an alarming rate with illegal slaughter and poor breeding methods blamed for the crisis. Illegal slaughter of the animals has been reported in recent weeks, rendering tens of families jobless. According to Raphael Kinoti from Brooke East Africa, the trend is worrying as the meat is unsafe for human consumption. “In the last couple of weeks, we have seen an upsurge in the cases of illegal donkey slaughter and this means the presence of uninspected meat and depriving families a source of livelihood,” he said. He said that between 2016 and 2021, the country lost 300,000 donkeys to the slaughterhouses, adding that it would take four years to replace them. “The breeding of donkeys is challenging and we thus need to protect the current numbers as there are fears of extinction,” he said. Meanwhile, the construction of phase one of the Hell’s Gate ward slaughter house in Naivasha subcounty is 95 per cent complete. The construction of the main house, offices, manure shed, borehole, holding pen, drainage system, lagoons, toilets, perimeter wall and blood tanks are complete. The Sh20m facility is set to be operational in the coming months once the carcass hoists, electricity and water pump are installed. According to Nakuru Livestock chief officer Enos Amuyunzu, the slaughterhouse has immense potential to produce meat for revenue. He said once completed, an estimated 100 cattle and 150 heads of goats and sheep would be slaughtered in a day. “This facility has the capacity of supplying meat for the whole region and the daily slaughters will translate to over Sh8.7m for cattle and Sh600,000 for sheep and goat in revenue,” he said. Amuyunzu told the stakeholders the county was committed to facilitating projects and programmes that improve livestock production development. He further said the next phase included installation of solar-powered systems, and a cold room for preservation of meat. “We expect this slaughterhouse to be operational in the coming months and we shall have to close the one in Naivasha town,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)