Poor leadership by Moses Wetang'ula's Ford Kenya party is to blame for the slow development in Trans Nzoia county, Defence CS Eugene Wamalwa has said. “Had Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula taken immediate and decisive action, the livelihoods of residents would have changed for the better," he told a rally on Wednesday. He was campaigning for Azimio governor aspirant George Natembeya. Wetang'ula is the Senator for Bungoma. The Trans Nzoia administration is headed by Governor Patrick Khaemba who was elected on the Ford Kenya ticket in 2013 and in 2017. Frontrunners to succeed him are former Rift Valley regional commissioner Natembeya and Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa. Wamalwa said Ford Kenya is partly to blame for Khaemba's failures. “The depth of underdevelopment our county is experiencing is not by coincidence. It’s a failure of Senator Moses Wetang'ula’s poor leadership in Ford Kenya,” Wamalwa said. The CS spoke at Kokwo lodge in Endebes subounty during a campaign rally for Natembeya. Natembeya is running on the DAP-K ticket. The party is led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wamalwa is the patron. The CS said he was shocked seeing the county plummet to 47 in development, which he said was due to the party's failure to prudently use funds released by the National Treasury. "I have been the Cabinet Secretary in charge of Devolution and I know who among the 47 governors is number one and who is number last," he said. "It is unfortunate my home county is number last with nothing to show for funds released." He said underdevelopment clearly shows lack of commitment from Ford Kenya's leadership to ensure services to voters who elected them. “The people of Trans Nzoia elected Governor Khaemba for two terms through Ford Kenya. It should be noted that Wetang'ula has failed to lead, Ford Kenya must go," he said. Khaemba’s administration has been accused of incompetence and misuse of resources. His flagship projects, including Trans Nzoia County Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kenyatta Stadium and Kitale business park are yet to be completed. Wamalwa expressed optimism that Azimio will defeat other parties in all elective posts in Trans Nzoia, telling other parties to prepare for a serious political battle. (Edited by V. Graham)