A total of 56 cars have been registered for this year’s Rhino Charge, organisers have revealed. Even though the actual venue for the event has not been disclosed, Clerk of Course, Don White, hinted that it will be held in the 'wilds of the south.' In addition to the cars, camp operators, competitors, guard post officers and sponsors as well as spectators are still registering at www.rhino-charge.org, with the deadline set for May 27. The venue of the annual motorsport-cum-fundraising event will be announced on the eve of Madaraka Day. “Since the resumption of the Charge last year, we have witnessed increased enthusiasm towards the event and increased support for the conservation work we do at Rhino Ark," said White. "I feel so indebted to all those who are contributing their time and expertise to make the Charge such a successful fundraising event.” “We raised Sh140m last year which has enabled us to resume all our conservation activities on the ground. These include the maintenance of 670 kilometres of fences that protect over 80,000 households from human-wildlife conflict," added Rhino Ark Charitable Trust Executive Director and organising committee member Christian Lambrechts. "We also have an extensive conservation education programme benefiting 178 primary and secondary schools.” “We also have three teams of community scouts engaged in forest protection in Eburu, Aberdares and Mt. Kenya. Over the past year, we have built 29 kilometres of comprehensive fence on Mt. Kenya, as well as 30 kilometres of a low fence with outriggers in Imenti Forest.” Even though Covid-19 pandemic restrictions have been considerably lifted, the organisers are still keen to ensure the safety of all participants and service providers. "To enter the Rhino Charge venue, an individual will have to provide a certificate of complete vaccination or a negative PCR test conducted within the past 96 hours," said Lambrechts. The event was cancelled in 2020, for the first time in its 32-year existence, due to Covid-19. The event schedule starts on June 2, 2022 with scrutineering, sealing of Distance Measuring Device (DMD) units, drivers’ briefing and issuance of competition maps. The competition will go down on June 3 with prize-giving and the announcement of funds raised set for June 4. It will conclude officially a month later, July 2, with the Spirit of the Charge Event in Nairobi, Prize-giving II, announcement of additional awards and entries for the next Rhino Charge.