A second postmortem will be conducted on the body of Nominated MP David Sankok's son to clear a number of emerging issues. Memusi Sankok, 15, allegedly shot himself dead with a gun last week. Police handling the probe said an autopsy conducted on May 3 did not cover a number of issues that are key in such deaths. The earlier postmortem at Longisa Hospital showed that Memusi’s death was caused by a bullet that entered through his chin and exited at the top of his head at their Narok home. But it emerged forensic experts did not participate in the exercise, hence a fresh one has been ordered, probably Tuesday or Wednesday. Detectives said they want to know if the injuries were caused through suicide or if someone else was involved in the May 2 incident. To clear the doubts, officers from the homicide unit of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) have ordered an autopsy conducted again for forensic analysis by the government pathologist. Narok county DCI boss Mwenda Ethaiba said a fresh postmortem will be conducted this week. “We will conduct another autopsy to address some issues. Forensic experts will be present,” he said. Following the developments, the family has been forced to cancel the burial that was set for May 10. “As a committee, we have decided that the burial set for Tuesday will be reviewed due to some family members who are travelling. We will give a comprehensive statement on Monday,” Narok East MP Ken Aramat said. Detectives have been visiting the home of the legislator in Narok, interrogating family members and staff as they try to piece together Memusi's last moments. On Saturday, sleuths were back again but did not record statements from the family. They walked around the compound and left. They had also visited the scene on Thursday. The officers said there were “inconsistencies” noticed in earlier statements, hence the need to revisit the scene. This is in regard to who was in the house when Memusi allegedly shot himself dead. The team has so far recorded statements from at least 10 people, including Sankok, his wife, children and workers. It was while going through the statements that they detected inconsistencies. The probe file will be sent to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions with various recommendations for action. Focus has shifted to ballistic analysis of two guns belonging to Sankok. Police took his shotgun and Ceska pistol found in the house for analysis and examination. It is claimed the boy used the shotgun to shoot himself. Detectives want to understand how Memusi could handle the shotgun and shoot himself in the chin. They will be seeking to establish whether the bullet head recovered at the scene was shot from the firearm. They will also be keen to match the fingerprints on the trigger of the shotgun to the deceased. MP Sankok is a licensed firearm holder. It is alleged that the legislator differed with his son over his delay in reporting back to school before a verbal altercation ensued between them. His son, who was angry at the time, is suspected to have gone for the shotgun in a safe and used it to shoot himself. Police are planning to recommend that Sankok be charged with negligence in handling his firearm. A licensed firearm holder is always supposed to ensure the safety of their gun. Memusi was a Form Three student at Kericho High School. According to the family, he was to return to school on April 29. “He instead disappeared from the home and only returned on May 1,” a family friend said. According to officials, the father summoned the boy for a talk on May 2 and he reportedly said he was “tired with school”. But after a lengthy discussion, the boy gave in, and he agreed to go back to school accompanied by his father. No one was in the house then because all the other family members had stepped out. The MP left the homestead and went to his hotel nearby for a political meeting. At around 3pm, the boy accessed the mother's handbag and took the keys to the bedroom and the safe, took the weapon and shot himself in the chin. His sister and brother were outside. It is his brother who stumbled on the body moments after the incident. Edited by A.N