Wiper deputy leader Farah Maalim says the party is in the Azimio coalition to stay. Maalim said there are serious discussions between Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Azimio flag bearer Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. He spoke on Saturday at a Garissa hotel during his endorsement by the Afghab sub clan of the Aulihan community, to contest for the Dadaab MP seat. “The three of them will find a way around the sticky issues. I want to believe that that has already been resolved. Kenyans should rest easy knowing that we will walk this journey together,” Maalim said. The former deputy speaker in the National Assembly said the party is negotiating their own deal adding that some serious white smoke will come out soon. Kalonzo has been sending mixed signals with his stay in Azimio. He has even gone a step further, to declare his presidential candidature and named Andrew Sunkuli as his running mate. His troops however, came out recently, to state that they wanted him back in Azimio. While unveiling his running mate, Raila named Kalonzo as the chief minister in his proposed government. Maalim further called for the reopening of the Kenya-Somalia border in Wajir and Mandera counties, to facilitate cross-border trade. The Kenya–Somalia borders were closed about four years ago, as part of the security operations against al Shabaab terror group operating from the Somali side. Apart from security reasons, there were also concerns of drug trafficking and import of counterfeit goods through the borders. Maalim, said there is need to reconsider the decision, allow cross-border trade and establish customs offices to receive taxes. “The opening of the Kenya-Somalia border is not an option. We shall push and make sure it remains open. We can create a border economy and be in a position to eliminate cross-border insecurity. “Currently, there is no sharing of pastures, economic resources or security intelligence between the two sides,” he said. The former legislator said the opening of the border will support the integration in the greater horn of Africa, which is good for the economy of this country. The border points that were closed include Liboi, El Wak, Diff and Hamuma in Wajir. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)