Deputy President William Ruto has vowed to reverse some of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s key standard gauge railway deals, if elected in the August 9 polls. In a blistering attack on his own government, Ruto termed some decisions on cargo handling the "biggest impoverishment of the people." He accused some individuals he did not name of hijacking the project for personal interests. “The SGR was meant to make the port much more efficient, better and improve business and fortunes of the people in the Coast. Unfortunately some selfish people took hostage of the whole programme to benefit  a few,” the DP said. “We have made a commitment that we are going to undertake both administrative and legal steps to reverse what has become the biggest impoverishment of the people of Mombasa and Coast in its entirety.” A copy of the agreement Kenya Kwanza signed with Pamoja African Alliance shows a commitment to reverse, "All operational changes that have been carried out and whose effect has been to relocate some of the main sea port activities to Nairobi and Naivasha". The remark by Ruto is in complete contrast of his earlier declaration that he will protect Jubilee’s legacy once Uhuru retires. The DP is also on record supporting the setting up of the dry port in Naivasha and trashing arguments by Coast politicians, who were against the move. In a thinly veiled statement seen to be directed at the President, some Kenya Kwanza leaders said they will unite with the Coast in pursuing historical land injustices. Ruto made the remarks when he received PAA leader and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi into his team at Karen on Tuesday. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said it was untrue that the establishment of Naivasha dry port was meant to benefit Central Kenya. Gachagua said the diversion of the port services was a private business, “in someone’s land and has nothing to do with the people.” “There has been a misconception at the Coast that we the people from the mountain took over your land, when you are with us, feel comfortable,” Gachagua said. He said Mt Kenya people were also victims since their lands were grabbed by the same clique of individuals from the region. “A few people from Mt Kenya who took land from the coastal people took lands from the Mau Mau and peasants from the mountain, so as you pursue the land matter, we are partners.” In June 2020, Ruto told off Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho who was opposed to some port services been transferred from Mombasa, saying it was not going to render residents jobless or cripple the region's economy. Last year, during the Mashujaa Day celebrations Ruto while praising the President said his commitment to development in the country has seen many sectors transformed. “We celebrate you, your legacy as a transformational leader will set the standards for leaders that will come after you,” Ruto said during the event at Wanguru stadium citing the SGR among other projects. Expressing optimism that the coalition will form the next government, Kingi said they are going to ensure employment opportunities and other key economic benefits from the Lamu port are returned. Kingi said it was sad that for several years they have fallen victims to fake promises. “Presidential candidates have always verbally promised the Coastal people heaven only to forget once they get into power, this time we are not going to fall short of a written commitment that can be legally enforced,” he said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said Northeastern region share similar “discriminations” with those from the Coast. “All the problems that Kenyans are facing are found in the other corner, when you discuss about the port, land issues and blue economy you are talking directly to the owners of those problems, the guys who perpetuate it are known,” he said. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki said as a coalition, they are ready to sign a pre-election pact with other parties that are ready to join them. “The window period for signing pre-election agreements may have been closed but we welcome all those who want to join us in forming the next government,” Kindiki said. Present during the function were ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula of Ford Kenya and Speaker Justin Muturi, among others. Mudavadi, while lauding Kingi for joining Kenya Kwanza said, "Today we are seeing a reincarnation of wisdom and vision of Ronald Ngala and the courage of Karisa Maitha." "You have said no to politics of hostage, you have sent a strong message to those other parties suffering in Azimio that they can chart their own destiny," he said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)