Health and Agriculture are the main agenda of the candidates aspiring to succeed Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria. In a debate organised by KBC Channel 1 on Friday, the aspirants highlighted the two sectors as the most important pillars of the local economy. The aspirants included Irungu Nyakera (The Farmers’ Party), Irungu Kang’ata (UDA), Moses Mwangi (Safina Party), Henry Gaate (Independent), Wairagu wa Maai (DP), Joseph Mbai (Usawa Kwa Wote). Jamleck Kamau (Jubilee party) did not attend the debate. Kang’ata said the county has an insufficient coverage of health facilities with a population of over 1 million people. He said about 40,000 out of the 320,000 households are covered by NHIF which limits their access to health and he plans to expand the coverage if elected. It is his vision to put in place minimum guaranteed returns for local agricultural products to support farmers. Kang’ata plans to implement ward development fund to decentralise services and ensure more title deeds to incentivise development and create employment for youths. Nyakera, former Devolution Principal Secretary said he has served in both private and public sectors and that he is vying to give back to the society. His priority is agriculture and has helped to instal new drying beds in all 144 coffee factories in the county. Nyakera said the sector that constitutes about 22 per cent of the county’s GDP and employs a workforce of 67 per cent both, directly and indirectly, can provide much more jobs and revenue in the county. This, he said, is by enhancing yields and streamlining agricultural value-chains, and seeking new markets while connecting farmers to national and international players. “Murang’a was very rich in previous years because of coffee, tea and dairy, and now we have avocado and macadamia. I will prioritise reviving agriculture and putting more money in people’s pockets,” he said. This, he said, would help control joblessness and alcoholism that have been plaguing the county. Henry Gaate, a former advisor to former President Mwai Kibaki said his plan is to industrialise the county. Gaate said industries that have set bases in other counties can be attracted to Murang’a by offering them incentives. “Being one of the architects of vision 2030, I have pride in the three pillars of the vision including the economic, political and social pillars. The economic pillar is vital but cannot thrive if the political environment is not right,” he said. If elected, Gaate said he will drive the economic agenda of the county. Mbai who served as the Health executive for two terms said in 2013, that the county referral hospital could not be classified as such because it was in a poor state. The hospital now has a 35-bed ICU, a 14-bed renal unit and an oxygen plant that produces 500 litres of oxygen per minute. It has a blood centre where blood donations are screened and administered to patients, and improved theatres that have been doing implants for accident victims who get bone injuries. “The hospital does hip replacements and we have reduced the number of ambulances taking patients to Nairobi because a majority of the services are offered locally,” he said. He said public health facilities have increased from 116 to 155. Mbai said a majority of residents are however unable to pay their hospital bills urging the county government to rescue them. Out of the 327,000 households, only 47,000 are extremely poor and his administration will pay for their NHIF covers to cushion them from selling their property when they fall sick. He said the lack of drugs in hospitals was brought about by the Kemsa Amendment Act passed in 2019 that restricted counties from buying drugs from other sources. “All funds that were supposed to be channelled to the county for drugs were given to Kemsa,” he said. Mwangi who has vied for the seat since 2013 said economic empowerment is his key agenda. The county is the largest producer of tea and his administration will build on what the national government has in the sector while enhancing value addition. Most families have diabetic and hypertensive patients who are reliant on medicine that they have to buy. Mwangi pledged to ensure drugs are available and to establish village councils that will participate in the decision making of the county. Wairagu, former Water PS, said numerous issues needed to be addressed. “My priority is to complete some of the projects that I implemented as a PS. Over 40 per cent of diseases are caused by unhygienic water and I drove the coverage of the county to up to 80 per cent,” he said. Wairagu said he plans to ensure every home has a tap in 2027.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris