Liverpool have signed Fabio Carvalho from Fulham with the forward set to officially join on July 1. The 19-year-old played a key role in the Cottagers’ promotion to the Premier League, scoring 10 goals and providing eight assists. The clubs agreed on a fee for a move in January but the deal collapsed on deadline day. Carvalho signs a five-year deal for a fee of £5m, with a further £2.7m in add-ons. Fulham also have a 20 percent sell-on clause. Carvalho played for England at the youth level but made his Portugal Under-21 debut in March. He came through the Fulham academy and was nominated for EFL Young Player of the Season, which was won by Nottingham Forest’s Brennan Johnson “Fabio is a great talent and we did everything we could trying to secure him here on a longer deal so he could play in the Premier League with Fulham,” said club owner Tony Khan. “That didn’t prove possible, but we were able to keep him for the remainder of the Championship-winning campaign, and for that, I know he will always be very fondly remembered by our fans.” Elsewhere, Cardiff City defender Oliver Denham has received a first Wales call-up - but uncapped Nathan Broadhead has been forced to withdraw from the squad for June's World Cup play-off final and four Nations League matches. Denham, 20, has played just five Championship and two cup games this season for Cardiff. Manager Robert Page has also recalled Ipswich winger Wes Burns to his squad. Forward Broadhead's withdrawal is because of injury. The 24-year-old scored 13 goals in 27 appearances for Sunderland on loan from Everton this season and was included for the first time when Page last week named an extended 27-man squad seemingly designed to help manage a congested summer fixture list. His side face either Scotland or Ukraine in Cardiff on Sunday, 5 June, as Wales aim to qualify for the first World Cup since 1958. Four days before that huge encounter, Wales visit Poland in the Nations League. They then host the Netherlands and Belgium on 8 and 11 June, before traveling to the Netherlands for their final game of this window on 14 June. Burns has previously featured in Wales' squads under former manager Chris Coleman but is also uncapped.