Foreign affairs CS Raychelle Omamo on Tuesday met with the State Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan, Suzuki Takako, for the second Japan-Africa Public-Private Economic Forum in Nairobi. The duo reviewed bilateral relations founded on shared values and buttressed by strong people-to-people relations. The CS appreciated Japan's support during the Covid-19 pandemic when the country donated Covid-19 vaccines and cold chain equipment to Kenya. Omamo also praised Japan’s generous support towards the national development agenda. During the meeting, eighteen MOUs between Japanese entities and their African counterparts were presented, with some finalized and signed. The MoUs covered the sectors of green energy, health, technology, finance, human resource development, motor vehicle assembling, manufacturing and logistics. Omamo also held a bilateral meeting with the Foreign Minister of Comoros H.E Dhoihir Dhoulkamal who is attending the second Japan-Africa Public-Private Economic Forum in Nairobi. Areas of possible cooperation included geothermal exploration in Comoros taking advantage of Kenya's capacity in the geothermal energy sector and exchange of technical expertise, including the training of nurses, teachers and agricultural extension officers. They appreciated the relations between the two countries and observed that there is a need to expand relations in the business sector. In April, Kenya received 200,200 doses of AstraZeneca from the Embassy of Japan. The vaccines were donated by the government of Japan via the Covax facility and transported by Unicef. Covid Vaccine Deployment Taskforce chairman Dr Willis Akhwale urged all Kenyans who are yet to be vaccinated against the virus to take the jab. Speaking at Kitengela National Vaccine Depot in Nairobi earlier last month, Dr Akhwale said those eligible for booster shots should visit their closest health centre immediately. “We are very grateful to the government of Japan for their recent donation of Covid-19 vaccines,” Dr Akhwale said.