ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula have promised to revive the collapsed factories and industries in Western Kenya to create job opportunities. The two also hinted that they will repossess some factories that were sold to private investors at a throwaway price. Speaking during the third day of campaigns in Vihiga, the two leaders said the region’s economy has been crippled by the collapse of some of the main factories like the Mumias Sugar Company. Other leaders present were Kabuchai MP  Majimbo Kalasinga, Kimilili's Didmus Barasa,  Ben Washiali (Mumias East) and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale among others. They noted that the collapse of the industries had deprived the region of jobs and economic development. Mudavadi led a campaign in Vihiga, Webuye, Matungu, Funyula and Luanda. The ANC boss noted that the region’s development took a nosedive when factories like Mumias collapsed. “I want to inform you that part of the agreement we have signed as Kenya Kwanza is to revive our factories and be able to create jobs,” he said in Matungu. Mudavadi reiterated that the Luhya nation has no stake in the Azimio coalition that is headed by Raila Odinga. The leaders noted that the Pan Paper Webuye Mills was sold at a throwaway price to an individual with the help of the government. “The factory was sold at a throwaway price. We shall repossess the factory and have it running to provide employment for our people,” said Wetang’ula. The team reiterated that the revival of Mumias Sugar Factory and pumping more funds to Nzoia Sugar company will be a priority. At the same time, Mudavadi called on the Government to stop using its security administration to harass members of the alliance. Mudavadi said no amount of State machinery would slow down the alliance’s activities. “The Government should stop the intimidation tactics it’s trying to use on our leaders and top party officials,” he said. He further assured the Luhya community that their interests are safe in the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. The ANC leader said that in the spirit of transparency and accountability, the alliance had made public its signed agreement between its three major political parties. Mudavadi noted that in the Azimio coalition, the Luhya community is not represented on the ‘cake sharing table’ and asked the people to demand to be told what is in store for the region. “People are saying that the community cannot deliver even 70 per cent of the votes to the Kenya Kwanza, but I want to tell them that in 2007 and 2017, we delivered over 90 per cent to Raila. We are going to deliver over 90 per cent of the Mulembe vote to Kenya kwanza,” he affirmed. He noted that the alliance is committed to ensuring Ruto wins in round one so that the country is saved from the burden of a run-off.