Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has unveiled the aspirants who will fly the UDA flag for political seats in Kilifi county in the August 9 polls. Jumwa, who is seeking to replace Governor Amason Kingi has since become Deputy President William Ruto's pointperson in the county. On Sunday, she organised a thanksgiving ceremony at her home in Kakuyuni that was attended UDA supporters and religious leaders. It is during the event that she announced her deputy governor pick Emmanuel Nzai, the former executive officer of Jumuiya ya Kaunti Za Pwani. Jumwa also unveiled all aspirants for parliamentary seats in the seven constituencies and the 35 ward rep hopefuls allied to the UDA. Aspirants introduced at the event include Daniel Chiriba, the outgoing Jilore MCA seeking Malindi MP seat, former Ganze MP Peter Shehe( vying for Jaribuni MCA seat) and deputy speaker Stanley Kenga, who is seeking the Magarini MP Others were Shukran Mwambonje(senator) and Juliet Riziki(woman rep). Jumwa is facing stiff competition from Pamoja African Alliance aspirant George Kithi and ODM's Gideon Mung'aro. In her speech, Jumwa said her administration is going to spearhead economic change to ensure every resident affords three meals per day. The governor hopeful said her government would address land issues and waive all building plans fees for churches, mosques and other religious buildings. “I humbly ask for your votes so that we can have a united Kilifi inside the Kenya Kwanza coalition,” Jumwa said. She said her administration is in line with the bottom-up economic policies of Ruto unlike others leaders who were fighting for positions. Throwing a jibe at Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya presidential aspirant Raila Odinga Jumwa said she didn't have to establish a panel to nominate her deputy governor. This is because she knew he had the capability, experience to transformation the county. Last week Azimio team unveiled a seven-member panel tasked to pick a running mate for Raila. The panel comprises Bishop Peter Njenga, Archbishop Zacchaeus Okoth, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Dr Noah Wekesa, Sheikh Mohamed Khalifa, Michael Orwa and Beatrice Askul Moe. She urged some of her opponents who have been forced to contest for positions that they never wanted to join Kenya Kwanza “Those in Azimio should not be worried they have a place under the leadership of William Ruto in Kenya Kwanza because we will transform the economy of this country,” she said. Jumwa said Raila who engineered the multi-party politics in Kenya has changed and is now being controlled by some few individuals, who are advocating for their personal interests. She said Raila is unable to make any decision and has become a robot being used while the remote is held by another person. (Edited by Tabnacha O)