Saboti MP Caleb Amisi has hit back at Deputy President William Ruto, telling him off after the Kenya Kwanza supremo urged the electorate to vote out the lawmaker. Ruto, who took his bottom-up economic model campaigns to Saboti on Sunday, said Amisi should be voted out come August 9. "Huyo kijana wa makelele wa ODM aende nyumbani (That noisemaker from ODM should be sent home)," Ruto told the crowd in Saboti. Speaking in his constituency on Monday during a meet-the-people tour, Amisi accused Ruto of sponsoring  Tuwan MCA Bernard Wambwa to unseat him. He slammed Ruto for what he termed careless remarks. The MP said the DP lacks the moral authority to address him on matters leadership in his constituency. "I’m the age of his children and it is unwise for him to come here yelling dirty words implying that I’m just a noise maker in Saboti," Amisi said. The legislator told the DP to focus on his dwindling political career instead of fighting him in order to plant his political cronies. "Instead of fighting me, an orphan, take your arsenals to ODM leader Raila Odinga and if not come and vie against me in Saboti and be ready to be humiliated," he said. Ruto who addressed congregants at St Clever Catholic Church in Kiminini and later at the Trans Nzoia county economic forum, asked the two Kenya Kwanza aspirants Joseph Khisa Pepela  (Ford Kenya) and Bernard Wambwa (UDA) to reach a consensus in order to allow the coalition to field one candidate that would send Amisi home. He was accompanied by National Assembly Speaker Justin  Muturi, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. Others were Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba, Ford Kenya secretary general Dr Chris Wamalwa (MP Kiminini), Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Catherine Wambilianga  (Women Representative Bungoma) and Dr Robert Pukose (Endebes). The MP further accused the DP of having lost the moral of being a national leader and instead turned himself into a tribal chieftain now crisscrossing the county aimlessly. Amisi said Ruto had no agenda and was using his bottoms up agenda to lure unsuspecting Kenyans into supporting his 2022 presidential bid. The ODM legislator said the DP's move of sponsoring so many aspirants to unseat him will in the long run hit the bricks. "If the DP is man enough let him come and personally vie against me here and I will floor him. This is a man who lost focus a long time ago and will never ascend to the highest seat in the land if he continues behaving this way."    -Edited by SKanyara