President Uhuru Kenyatta has opened the MAS Intimates Kenya, a Sri Lankan apparel and textile manufacturer that has employed over 3,000 Kenyans. Speaking at the launch ceremony in Athi River on Wednesday, Uhuru said the huge investment is a testament to the decade-long groundwork laid under the manufacturing pillar of the Big 4 Agenda. ''You have injected over $8.5 million (Sh986 million) into our economy, employed over 3,000 Kenyans and shipped garments worth over $24 million (Sh2.8 billion) which are affixed with the magical, Made in Kenya tag,” he said. The President pointed out that the expanding infrastructure, world-class human capital and economic policies have significantly improved Kenya’s business index, making the country the most vibrant investment destination in Africa. He said added that the entry of the Sri Lankan apparel and textile manufacturer into Kenya has added to Mas Intimates’ global footprint that presently spans 17 countries in South Asia, North America, South America and Europe. He assured both local and international companies that the Government is committed to enhancing the growth of the private sector by fostering high value-added manufacturing, promoting the adoption of advanced manufacturing technologies and equipping the youth with skill-sets required by a fast-evolving marketplace. “We will also continue to partner with similar industries to create new job opportunities for our people. For example, this new plant will create thousands of new skilled jobs including scientists, engineers, supply chain specialists and technicians.” The company has projected to increase its current employment numbers to 4,200 by end of the year and a further 7,000 by 2025. Industrialization and Enterprise Development CS Betty Maina said the country has more than Sh122 billion worth of investment in EPZs. “We are very excited about the strides we have made in manufacturing and this is a testament. This is just one of our EPZ zones, there are others around the country," she added. The CS added that the country’s exports last year stood at more than Sh91 billion while employment in the EPZs stood at about 65000 people. MAS Intimates Kenya Manufacturing Director Chandana Galappathi thanked the government for creating a conducive environment for investment, saying it has seen his company grow from strength to strength in the last two years. Galappathi assured the President that his company is set to create more employment for the country’s youth as it embarks on the implementation of phase two of its expansion program me.