Mombasa governor aspirant Hassan Omar has promised to support Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises with a Sh2 billion Biashara Fund if elected. Omar said the fund will supplement the ‘hustlers fund’ by Deputy President William Ruto that seeks to set aside Sh50 billion to support MSMEs. The hustlers fund will allocate about Sh120 million to each constituency. He was speaking during an engagement meeting with Kongowea market leaders at UDA offices in Nyali, Saturday evening. He said UDA was ready to lead the next economic revolution under Ruto’s stewardship. “SMEs are the backbone of Kenya’s economy, my administration will set aside Sh2 billion under the Biashara Fund to support you,” Omar said. “I’d rather you don’t pay taxes to be able to support your businesses." Omar also promised that he was going to end the harassment of traders by county askari’s and also deal with the issue of hygiene and security in all the markets. He said Mombasa was a perfect example of a hustler city where people from all corners of the country have come to seek a living. “UDA is ready to improve the livelihood of all Kenyans, we want to end this vicious cycle of poverty that is well orchestrated by a few powerful selfish individuals,” he said. He said that the previous fire incidences witnessed at the Kongowea market were intentional. He promised that under his administration, he will not allow any individual to destroy people’s determination. “We are also going to come up with a market management Act for Mombasa that will streamline leadership that will work closely with the county to address traders’ issues,” Omar said. Omar also took a swipe at his opponents Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko, saying that the two had nothing to offer Mombasa. He said he was running against billionaires and their proxies who had no agenda or the intention to upset the status quo. Omar said time had come for Mombasa people to change their political perception and vote in leaders with an ideology. “I am not corrupt, neither have I stolen public money nor been charged in court or impeached. I want to work for you to ensure that your lives are improved,” he said. In February, UDA allied MPs lost a bid to allocate Sh50 billion in the 2022-23 budget to the hustlers fund. This was during the debate on the budget policy statement 2022 which sets limits for state spending for the next financial year The MPs had proposed Sh50 billion be provided under the Ministry of Trade towards supporting MSMEs adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic They had proposed to reduce the budget of the office of the President, Defense and Interior ministry to finance the fund. UDA’s senate hopeful Hamisi Mwaguya called for six piece voting in their favour saying their team had the visionary leaders capable of transforming Mombasa. “The team you see here is the team that will lead the real revolution in Mombasa,” Mwaguya said. Other leaders present included Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, Mvita MP aspirant Omar Shallo and Mombasa woman representative aspirant Fatma Barhiyan. The team got a boost last Monday after Selina Maitha, sister to once powerful cabinet minister and Kisauni MP Karisa Maitha ditched ODM to join UDA. Maitha, a decorated public administrator with over 20 years’ experience, had been picked by businessman Suleiman Shahbal to be his running mate. Shahbal however pulled out of the race to support Nassir. (Edited by Tabnacha O)