Deputy President William Ruto has said his administration will respect the democratic rights of all citizens if he clinches the presidency. Addressing a rally at Wamba town in Samburu county, Ruto said the wishes and aspirations of Kenyans will not be curtailed in a Kenya Kwanza government. “Kenya Kwanza will unite all Kenyans without forcing anybody into anything. We are an alliance that is democratic and respectful of the wishes of everyone. We will not be conmen because Kenya belongs to all of us,” he said. He spoke hours after Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua decamped from Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition party for the Kenya Kwanza Alliance over what he called “mistreatment” in the Raila Odinga-led formation. "The politics of conmanship, lies and deceit will be buried this year. Kenyans want to make their own decisions and a government that will incorporate all," Ruto said. He deplored that some people in leadership have too much pride and arrogance. “The Azimio people will be stuck very soon because Kenyans have rejected the politics of deceit and dictatorship,” he added. He urged residents of Samburu to reject politicians who supported proposals to reduce allocations to some counties and those who were drumming up support for Constitution amendment efforts. “Do not even allow them to be chairmen of funeral arrangement committees,” he said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi expressed regret that there “is too much conmanship in the country’s political arena. “Ruto and I have been victims. The Raila you see now is not the same person you voted for in past elections. He is a different person, not the original one, [he is] a project of conmen,” he said. Mudavadi said President Uhuru Kenyatta “is micro-managing everything that goes on in the Azimio La Umoja–One Kenya Coalition. “When he (Raila) is told go right, he goes right; when he is told to stop, he stops; when he is told sleep, he sleeps” he said. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula said Ruto is the first among equals in Kenya Kwanza Alliance. “He is not bigger than the others but working hand in hand with the rest. This government of a one-man show is what has caused all problems you are seeing in the country,” the Bungoma senator said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said more leaders are set to ditch Azimio for Kenya Kwanza in the coming days. “You heard Alfred Mutua saying to hell with Azimio. More are leaving soon,” he said. He accused President Kenyatta and Raila of infringing on the rights of Kenyans to leave or join a political formation. “I want to tell the two of them, the Constitution under Article 38 has given political rights to Kenyans and parties can and leave formations at will. You cannot force people in a marriage they do not want. That marriage is ending this week,” he said. He also accused Uhuru’s administration of being secretive on matters that should be public. “Under the leadership of Uhuru, everything has been a secret. We do not know our debt portfolio, whether Mombasa port has been auctioned or where government money goes,” Wetang'ula said. “The culture of impunity will end come the next elections.” (Edited by V. Graham)