World under-20 400m bronze medalist Sylvia Chelangat is hoping for another opportunity to train abroad after a recent one-month stint in Miramas, France as part of a sprinters' training camp. The junior athlete believes there is a lot for her to learn about the modern techniques of sprints and thus feels another stint in a similar training camp will help her become better. "I will appreciate it if I get another chance to attend a training camp like the one in France. I know there is a lot more I can learn to improve on my sprinting. I want to acquire as many techniques as possible to enable me to become better," Chelangat. Eleven athletes were invited for training in April at Miramas Stadium as part of a collaboration between Miramas Athletics Club and Athletics Kenya. Although she admits she was not in her best shape when heading to France, Chelangat believes she has improved immensely, thanks to lessons picked from the training camp. "I would say my hand swinging technique has improved so much unlike previously when I would run like a marathoner and not a sprinter. When I went to France, I wasn't fit at all as I had just finished my KCSE exams during which I was not training much," she said. She, however, exuded confidence of making Team Kenya to the World Under 20 Championships in Cali, Colombia in August. Chelangat said she is working extra hard to get into peak fitness and will, hopefully, achieve this target in time for the national trials. "Right now, I need to work on my endurance techniques. There's a lot more I can do...fortunately I have been working with my coach, madam Janeth (Jepkosgei) in Kapsabet. I want to get into August in top condition and fight my way to Cali and possibly win a medal," Chelangat said. She was in action over the weekend at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar-es-Salaam, leading Team Kenya to gold in the 4x400m relay at the East Africa Under18 and Under 20 Championships on Saturday. Chelangat also grabbed silver in women's 400m and 200m. Kenya finished second on the medal standings — behind Ethiopia —  after harvesting five gold medals, 10 silver and three bronze. Joseph Lemkoina and Elkana Kiprotich each clinched gold in the men's 100m and 400m respectively before teaming up with Peter Kithome and Amos Langat to earn another gold in the men's 4x400m relay. Marion Chepngetich (800m and 3000m), Naomi Cheptoo (5000m), and Teresa Kabui (1500m) also came back from Tanzania with silver medals.