Lack of background checks on people seeking elective positions and the overlooking of red flags in such people are the main reasons that poor leaders get elected in Kenya, a lobby has said. Muslims for Human Rights on Friday cautioned youths who form about 75 per cent of the registered voters, against voting for leaders based on party, ethnic group, affiliation, religion and race. “Vote in leaders based on their integrity and their manifestos. It is this that will determine whether the leaders will help take the country forward, stagnate or backwards,” Fredrick Okado, the Muhuri programmes officer said. He spoke during the flagging off of a peace caravan from the Mombasa IEBC offices. This is part of the five-day voter education drive being conducted under the Kenya Electoral Conflict Mitigation and Civic or Voter Education Support programme. The programme is funded by USAID Act and is being implemented by Muhuri in Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi and Tana River. It was launched in Kwale on Thursday. Kwale and Tana River usually experience violence during the election period, and that is why Muhuri focuses on the two counties. Mombasa and Kilifi have a large number of youth who are registered voters, according to Okado, and it is prudent that they are targeted. Okado said he is happy no major incidences of violence have been reported so far. However, he said it is possible to avert the pockets of violence witnessed in campaign rallies, especially in Mombasa. “That is why we urge the youth to desist from any form of violence before, during and after elections,” Okado said. He said any person who approaches youth, either directly or indirectly, to ask them to cause violence in an opponent’s rally, already shows signs of poor leadership and should not be elected. Apart from the caravan, there will be town hall meetings, aspirants’ debates, youth meetings and many other activities and engagements. IEBC Mombasa county elections manager Swalhah Yusuf said they are ready for the elections. However, she called on registered voters to turn up and verify their details to avoid being locked out of the voting exercise. She said the IEBC is on course with their schedule of events. “From May 29 to June 7, we will be conducting the candidates’ registration,” Yusuf said. “Candidates who breach the IEBC Code of Conduct, which they have signed, will not be cleared to vie for any seat.” This includes inciting, provoking violence, and voter bribery, among others. She said many voters prefer using the verification link sent to their phones to confirm their status as shown by records at their offices as opposed to physical visits to the IEBC offices. Yusuf said voters who find themselves misplaced or subjected to vote in a polling station other than the one they are registered to, have to visit the IEBC constituency office for rectification of the matter. Muhuri gender officer Topister Juma said women are best placed to preach and promote peace because they are the most trusted campaigners. “Many politicians are using women to campaign for them because they are listened to,” Juma said. She called on the women to take advantage of this to preach peace. She said women are best placed to talk to their children to not allow themselves to be used by politicians to achieve the politicians’ selfish goals. “Let us remember that we have families at home who largely depend on us and ensure the August elections are peaceful,” Juma said. “Do not accept Sh200 to insult, torch houses or cause any chaos.” Juma said more women should come out and vote in the August 9 elections. Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said the elections are being observed by many different parties and so politicians should not try any monkey business. “We will partner with IEBC to ensure leaders who do not adhere to the electoral code of conduct are disqualified,” Auma said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris