National women's deaf basketball team captain Mercy Midieva says their second outing at this summer's Deaflympics should be the start of great things for the team. The She-Cheetahs played six matches at Caxias do Sul, Brazil, and came away with a sole win — a 98-11 win over the hosts. Midieva said they now need to build on such encouraging performance and develop structures to enable deaf basketballers to finesse their talents. "We need to start training immediately because the players have realised they need to work on various skills. We need to do that so that by the time Deaflympics comes, we will be ready," Midieva said. The ladies also played against Turkey, the United States and defending champions Lithuania, suffering their worst loss against the Eastern European side (114-31). Midieva, also the skipper for the last edition in 2017 in Samsun, Turkey, said the competition was a learning experience from which they have come with bundles of wisdom. "We really had a lot of exposure and even won against Brazil. Now we want to get together and work hard to become better. Everything went well, according to plan...the food (ugali) was great. The only problem was the weather where we struggled to adapt to it a bit," she said. Mirroring her skipper's observations was head coach Maureen Chepkoi who insists the team's performance became better with every game. "We progressed and our performances improved with each game. In our classification match, we lost 69-36 to Turkey...remember, in our first game they had beaten us 97-28. Indeed, we were privileged to go to Brazil. It was a good experience and we did well," Chepkoi said. She further concurred with her captain on the need to consolidate the gains made in Brazil by laying down proper strategies to ensure regular game time for deaf basketballers in Kenya. "This is not the end rather we have just started. We now need to find as many opportunities for the players to compete for as much as possible. We need deaf tournaments and structures for deaf leagues in the country," the coach said. Chepkoi thanked the government, through the Ministry of Sports, for the support according to the team, including a residential camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani.