Kenya increased the medal tally to 10 after Sharon Bitok clinched a silver in 1, 500m in the ongoing 24th Deaflympics Games in Caxias Do Sul, Brazil. Kenya has so far won two gold, four silver, and four bronze medals and the country is on course to surpass the 17 medals won during the last edition in Samsun, Turkey in 2017.  During the competition, Kenya won five gold, five silver and six bronze medals. Running on a rain-soaked track on Wednesday morning, Bitok,24, clocked 4:49.98 to win silver in the race won by Anastasia Sydorenko of Ukraine. Japan's Mio Okada settled for a bronze after clocking  4:51.78. Kenya’s other representative Rebecca Matiko came a disappointing fifth during the event held at the Sesi Centro Esportivo Athletics Track. Bitok had earlier dominated the race but was overtaken by the Ukrainian in the final lap. She will be seeking to win her second medal in the women’s 800m. "I'm glad I have won a medal on my debut in the Deaflympics. We had strategized for the race with my compatriots but at some point, I started feeling unwell. I then decided to go much faster, and alone, to end the contest as soon as possible," she explained. She added: "I had acclimatized to the cold Brazilian weather by training at the freezing end of Karura Forest while doing my training for this event," she said. During the World Deaf Championships in Poland last year, she was fourth and sixth respectively in 1,500m and 800m.  At the same time, Chaka Nyundo stormed the women’s long jump finals. She became the first Kenyan to qualify for the finals after finishing sixth overall. Field events coach Carolyne Kola was full of paise for Nyundo. "Nyundo has made me super proud. Reaching the finals shows Kenya has great potential that is yet to be discovered. We can do better in fringe sports like the long jump." In the women’s javelin, Kenya’s representative Alice Atieno finished 5th overall. She said she was surprised by her performance after covering a distance of  34.6. "I'm happy with my performance. Actually, I'm equally surprised with my performance," she said.  Medallists Gold Simon Cherono Kibai (men's 10000m) Ian Wambui Kahinga (men's 1500m) Silver 4X400 mixed relay Peter Toroitich (men's 10000m) Serah Wangari Kimani (women's 10000m) Sharon Jeptarus Bitok (women's 1500m) Bronze David Kipkogei (men's 10000m) Grancy Kandagor (women's 10000m) Kelvin Kipkogei (men's Javelin) Linet Fwamba Nanjala (women's 400m) 