The Kenyan Premier League title race enters round 30 this weekend with leaders Kakamega Homeboyz and champions Tusker in focus as battle for the title intensifies. Homeboyz, on 56 points, host KCB at Bukhungu Stadium hoping to recover from a five-match winless run, which has allowed a resurgent Tusker to close the gap to just a point. On the other hand, the bankers' fortunes have been on the decline in recent weeks, having won only once in their last 13 league matches. Last weekend, Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno's charges rallied from two goals down to hold debutants Talanta in a two-all draw at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Tusker will look to topple Homeboyz from the summit when they flex muscles with Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday. City Stars, who will be stepping onto the match on the back of a crucial 1-0 win over Wazito, are fourth with 49 points. Third-placed Bandari, on 50 points, will look to boost their chances of winning a maiden top-flight title when they host relegation-bound Vihiga Bullets at Mbaraki Sports on Saturday. The dockers have experienced a plain sailing run ever since Anthony Kimani took the reins as head coach in February. Kimani has stumbled only once, against Nairobi City Stars, in the more than ten fixtures he has been in charge of. They should expect a tough challenge from Vihiga, who are battling tooth and nail to retain their top-flight status. Record champions Gor Mahia host Talanta at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday. Gor are fifth on the log with 47 points while Talanta are 10th with 39. 13-time champions AFC Leopards face high riding Kariobangi Sharks in a fixture that could swing either way. Any hopes Leopards had of ending their 29-year-old title drought have faded off and their current ambition is a top-ten finish. Sofapaka host Bidco United on Sunday, on a day that Ulinzi Stars will settle scores with Posta Rangers. Wazito travel all the way to Sudi Stadium to lock horns with hosts Nzoia. Police are bound to reap maximum points against Mathare United, who are unlikely to show up for their encounter.