Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has said they will forgive Deputy President William Ruto but will not forget the transgressions he has done to the Jubilee government. This comes barely four days after Ruto apologised to President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Annual National Prayers Breakfast at Safari Park Hotel. The duo who were political brothers before the 2017 general elections fell out after the polls. “We have not been as united as we should. I ask for your forgiveness. I know I may have fallen short of the expectations of my boss President Uhuru Kenyatta and this, I ask for your forgiveness,” Ruto said. Chege while addressing a Jubilee Youth caucus meeting in Thika on Saturday said they cannot forget the fight staged by Ruto against the President and especially in his Mt Kenya backyard. The MP said Ruto absconded his duties of assisting the President to deliver on the Jubilee promises and instead launched his ambitious journey to State House just after they were sworn in for the second term. “He used his allies to portray the President as a failure and spread propaganda that Uhuru has turned against his people,” Chege said. She said the DP opposed agendas to revive and grow the region’s economy and especially the Building Bridges Initiative which was advocating for one man, one vote, one shilling that would have seen the region get a lion's share of the national cake. “Ruto opposed the constitutional change claiming that it was all about creating positions in the government, something he’s already doing at his camp while deceiving Kenyans,” she said. The lawmaker said despite the fallout between Uhuru and Ruto, the President has managed to steer the country forward development-wise with the help and guidance of the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “He has revived our coffee, tea and milk sectors by bringing reforms and policies that have enhanced stability of the sectors for the benefit of our farmers in the country,” Chege said. The woman rep drummed up support for the Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga and his running mate Martha Karua saying the country’s future and economic prosperity are safe in the duo’s hands. “The other camp has no agenda and especially for Central Kenya. We trust Raila and Karua to take the baton from President Uhuru. The two will end corruption in our country,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Kiambu Governor James Nyoro who said the country cannot trust Ruto’s camp especially after betraying the President after their re-election in 2017. “This is why we are following our President’s advice on the right political path we should take. We are sure that ‘Baba’ na ‘Mama’ will form the next government in two months,” Nyoro said. Nyoro told the youth that Raila’s promises including the Sh6,000 monthly stipend will be implemented saying the government has enough money and that all the loopholes which were being used by crooks to steal from public coffers have been closed. Kiambu senator aspirant George Maara said Ruto was insincere in his apologies. “Just a day after apologising he went on his campaign trail to attack the same government headed by him and the President,” Maara said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris