Deputy President William Ruto and his brigade are still camping in Western in a bid to sell their bottom-up agenda. Ruto was accompanied by ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula among other leaders from the alliance. The team has been meeting people on economic matters across the counties starting with Vihiga, Kakamega, Busia and Bungoma on their campaigns to popularise their  ‘bottom-up, economic model. They have been on consultative economic forum with the people across the region to collect views from representatives of different sectors. Members from the boda boda sectors, artists, cross-border traders, teaching fraternity, community health volunteers, the saloon, jua kali, PLWD, farmers aired out their challenges, views and proposals on how to improve and empower their sectors. Addressing the representatives at Mangatsi Technical and Vocational College, the DP noted that the countrywide consultative forums were a way of involving the citizens in deciding on the projects they want. “Kenya Kwanza administration is changing the conversation from politicking to issue-based where the people decide the projects that are beneficial to them,” he said. Ruto said the coalition’s administration will restore the ailing hotel industry in the border town of Busia as well as expand the Kisumu-Busia road with a modern parking bay at the border town for the trucks. “Our politics are not about sharing positions but tackling issues that affect the common mwananchi and do away with the pride of some leaders who think Kenyans are fools,” he said. He promised that as President, he will be going to the people through such forums where Kenyans get to say what they want done for them. Mudavadi challenged the people of Busia to join the Kenya Kwanza team in forming the fifth government. The ANC leader questioned the government’s sincerity in telling Kenyans that the economy has grown by seven per cent yet many Kenyans are hard hit by high cost of living. “They are telling us that the economy is growing while the prices of goods have gone up. The cost of fuel is on its highest. Kenyans are suffering,” he said. The Amani leader came to the defense of Deputy President over accusations by Uhuru of disserting him when he needed his help in running the government. “For over two years, the Cabinet has not met to discuss the affairs of the country. The President took away all his responsibilities and delegated them to someone else, how then can he accuse Ruto of not helping him?” he posed. Mudavadi said his decision to join forces with the DP and support his presidential bid was a sacrifice he had made in the interest of the country. “My people, where do you and your generations want to be? What have you gained from Azimio and the support given to Raila Odinga for decades?” he asked. “We have supported the leader for many years and we never gained anything.” Wetang’ula noted that Kenya Kwanza administration has developed a blueprint meant to bolster the economy, noting that the Mombasa-Busia/Malaba road will be made a dual carriage. He reached out to the western electorate to vote for the coalition’s candidates. “I want to tell the people of Busia that this is your bedroom and you should not allow any person to come here and tell you that this is his region. No, you should know where your interests are and that is in Kenya Kwanza,” he said.