A steel company has sued a businesswoman alleging she colluded with Nairobi City County to forge a title deed to defraud the firm of a two-acre land in Dandora. In an application filed in court, Steel Production Limited through lawyer Wambui Kiama, claims Nairobi City County colluded with Grace Wairimu to illegally transfer and to deprive the company of its right to the property. The lawyer says in an allotment letter dated September 24, 1992, the county allotted plot number H 13, Block G, a light industrial plot in Dandora Light Industries area, to one Georgette Mumbua Musyoka. The allotment letter provided that it should be accepted together with a cash payment or bankers cheque for the sum of Sh55,000 being the standard premium and the annual ground rent. Nairobi City County granted to Mumbua vacant possession of all that property together with the beacon certificate subsequent to receiving payment. “The plaintiff purchased the suit property from Mumbua on September 6, 1995 for the sum of Sh1,200,000 and she handed over possession of the premises to him,” the court documents states. Kiama states that all along, Nairobi City County was aware that Steel Company purchased the property from Mumbua and that the company was the beneficial proprietor of the property pending the processing of the title. The company continued paying the annual ground rent to the county. She added that the company procured approval from county on or about 1999 to erect a proposed warehouse on the suit property where the company erected a perimeter wall around the property, a site house and dug a toilet. Steel company obtained a renewal of the approval to develop the proposed warehouse on the suit property on September 29, 2015. The lawyer says Wairimu willingly, knowingly, unlawfully, fraudulently and in a process tainted with illegality procured title of the suit property in her name. The company accused Wairimu of applying for the registration as owner of the suit property despite knowing the property was owned by the plaintiff. The lawyer further says Wairimu ignored the readily available information that the property belonged to the steel company and was not for sale. The company accuses Wairimu of working in collusion with the county to deny the plaintiff of its right to the property and or refused to do her due diligence to ascertain the lawful registered owner of the suit property. It alleges the county purported to allot the suit property to the 1st defendant while it knew the land was not available for it to allot thereby acting in blatant breach and disregard of the plaintiff's beneficial ownership of the suit property. Steel company has never sold, alienated, or in any manner transferred, charged or leased the suit property to the 1st  defendant or to anyone. The company now wants the court give a declaration that the purported allocation and issuance of the title known as Land Reference Number 27224 (IR. Number 164856/1) in favour of Wairimu was fraudulent, illegal, wrongful, null and void for all intents and purposes. “A declaration that the 1st defendant holds the title illegally, irregularly, unlawfully and fraudulently and the suit property belongs to the company”, the documents say. An order directing Chief land Registrar to forfeit, to cancel and revoke the transfer, the lease, and the title to the suit property known Land Reference Number 27224 Number 164856/1) issued in favour of Wairimu.    -Edited by SKanyara