A Nairobi Magistrate's Court has sentenced a General Service Unit (GSU) officer to 15 years in prison after he was found guilty of rape. According to a report by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA), Anthony Ongere Moseti alias Kelvin was taken to court on charges of rape in 2018 after an investigation by the authority. H denied the charges. Magistrate CM Njagi convicted the officer on Friday, having found him guilty of the offence. “The accused led the complainant to his house, signalled his guest to leave and proceeded to commit the heinous act upon the complainant twice without her consent. I do find that this case was proved to the required standard as to the offence of rape as charged,” the Magistrate ruled on Wednesday. IPOA reported that the incident happened on February 9, 2017, when the woman visited the GSU headquarters in Ruaraka after she was called by the officer, who was well known to her. "The officer received her at the main gate and her entry was recorded in the visitor’s book in accordance with security measures in place at the institution," IPOA said. The officer, however, gave a different name and a false police service number after receiving the woman. IPOA added that, according to court records, Moseti has since faced disciplinary proceedings for making false records. The offence was initially reported to senior officers after the woman managed to leave the officer’s house, claiming she was going to buy vegetables. "During the investigation, the woman reported she was threatened with a panga and was, in turn, referred to Muthaiga police station," IPOA said. “According to the complainant, Muthaiga police station took a long time to arrest the culprit. She then reported the matter to IPOA,” the magistrate noted in his judgement. IPOA said a police detective was among nine witnesses called by the prosecution during the hearing. The detective further told the court that IPOA is mandated to investigate any complaint whether criminal or disciplinary against any member of the National Police Service. IPOA added that Moseti was placed on defense after the prosecution closed its case, with a ruling that he had a case to answer. The investigation involved medical examinations including lifting and analyzing DNA profiles of the accused and the victim.