Deputy President William Ruto and his running mate  Rigathi Gachagua took their vote hunt mission to Nakuru with a bag of goodies, including a Cabinet slot. Ruto said the county, which has more than one million registered voters, has always been forgotten after elections. “Nakuru is always forgotten because people do not know whether to place it in the Rift Valley or Mount Kenya. This year, Nakuru will not disappear in the middle,” the DP said. “We will give you a Cabinet position and on top of that create 40, 000 jobs for the youth and execute an economic plan for the region.” Speaking during a Kenya Kwanza economic forum in Nakuru county on Thursday, Ruto said focus of his government will be to uplift the lives of the common people and not to amend the Constitution. “As you vote for Kenya Kwanza MPs, governor, Women Representative, MCAs and senator, know that you will be voting for a job for your son or daughter and for extra money in your pocket,” he said. “The next government will be yours. I commit myself together with other leaders in the coalition to fight for you in the government," Gachagua said. "But it will be like preaching to a bishop because Ruto has also committed to walking with you.” He said Nakuru has never been given a Cabinet position yet it is a vote-rich region. The Mathira MP urged his Kikuyu community to support Ruto, saying their interests will be well catered for in his government. “We have so many votes which should all go to the Kenya Kwanza basket,” he said. Kenya Kwanza leaders present at the forum were Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya), Alfred Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap) and Moses Kuria (Chama Cha Kazi). Others included Nakuru governor hopeful Susan Kihika, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa and a host of aspirants for the various seats in the county. Ruto asked voters to avoid politics of conmanship and, instead, vote for Kenya Kwanza candidates. Mudavadi said Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya Coalition does not have the support of the people to beat Kenya Kwanza. “I left. Weta, Mutua, Kingi and even the President’s MP – Kuria - also left. So where will Raila get the votes?” he said. “Even the chairperson of Azimio has started showing signs of leaving. Why is he not coming out to campaign for his project?” Mudavadi told leaders in Kenya Kwanza against engaging in rivalries ahead of the election. “If you are in ANC, Ford Kenya, Chama Cha Kazi, UDA or any other member of Kenya Kwanza, remember friendly fire can kill," he said. Wetang'ula told Nakuru residents Kenya Kwanza government will deliver on its economic pledges. “All that we have promised will mean nothing if you do not come out in large numbers and vote. There are more one million voters in Nakuru. Let us put all those votes in one basket, the Kenya Kwanza basket,” he said. Ichung’wa said Kenya’s economic problems have been brought about by poor leadership “and not the war in Ukraine or any other reason.” “If you look at all sectors of economy, there is conflict of interest and state capture. They have deliberately and intentionally killed sectors of the economy as they pursue their personal interests,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)