ODM in Kilifi and the family of former Rabai MP William Kamoti have settled on his brother Mohammed Mwamkale to fly the party ticket in August. Kamoti, who died on Sunday night in road crash, had been cleared by Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to defend his seat for a third term. The 9:30pm accident which claimed the life of the legislator happened at Komaza area near Mnarani in Kilifi.  His driver is still fighting for his life at Kilifi County Hospital. Following his demise, ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday asked the family and ODM leadership in Kilifi to choose a possible replacement. Kamoti, a 60-year-old father of four, was buried at his Kaliang’ombe home in Rabai on Monday in accordance with Islam. Raila, who was was among the thousands of mourners who attended the funeral, said ODM had until Tuesday to submit a new name to IEBC for Rabai MP seat. “Yesterday (Sunday), Kamoti had just been cleared to run for the Rabai MP seat on ODM before he met his death. I now want the leaders here to agree on who will be given the ODM ticket,” he said. On Tuesday, theODM Kilifi chairman Teddy Mwambire confirmed to the Star that they had settled on Kamoti’s younger brother Mohammed. “We have forwarded the name of Kamoti’s younger brother Mohammed. We are not waiting for clearance before we can announce him as the ODM flagbearer in Rabai,” Mwambire said. Mohammed previously served as the chairman of Mariakani Town Council. He also served as the councillor for Kaliang’ombe ward from 2002 to 2007. During the burial of Kamoti, the Rabai-Kisurutini MCA Cantona Mae proposed two of Kamoti’s brothers to be considered for the positions. He proposed either Gideon Hare Mwamkale or Mohamed Mwamkale. “We saw it happening in Kibera when we lost Ken Okoth, his brother was considered for the seat. In Kwale, when we lost Senator Juma Boy, his brother Issa was fronted. We humbly ask that the brothers of  Kamoti are allowed to continue with his legacy,” Mae said. Unconfirmed reports indicated the Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi was among those who were being fronted to take over from Kamoti. Kamoti and Saburi are all from one region—Rabai. However, Saburi denied the claims, terming them fake news. He said the community is still in mourning and such misinformation is hurting. “I want to inform those propagating these fake news to immediately stop. I am mourning my brother and friend Kamoti,” he said. Saburi said as a community, they will stand together to ensure Kamoti’s position is agreeably filled by a leader suitable to fit in his (Kamoti) shoes. ODM Kilifi governor candidate Gideon Mung’aro dismissed as untrue claim that Saburi was being fronted. “That is not true. Saburi has other interests and not the parliamentary seat,” he said    -Edited by SKanyara