Form 4 leavers will have two weeks opening to review their university courses, University Education and Research PS Simon Nabukwesi has said. The Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement board has opened the portal to allow students to change the courses they had chosen in Form 4. Nabukwesi has urged students to consult before deciding on their preferred courses. The PS said universities’ placements will be made public in mid-June. “Those ready to join the universities will have the opportunity to enrol by September,” he said. The PS spoke on Monday at the Murang’a University of Science and Technology. Nabukwesi encouraged youths to think about agriculture as a profession saying it is noble and will enable them to make a living and support others. The country, he said, is moving towards giving agriculture the status it deserves as a major contributor to economic development. “Egypt is a desert country yet it is the highest producer of fruits and rice in Africa. We can take that as an example and do modern and better agriculture for provision of food and exports,” he said. “The profession is viable for nutritional purposes, food security and as a revenue earner for the country.” The PS said the government has provided funds to universities for libraries, dormitories and laboratories. “The funds have been availed over the past few years and we came to Murang’a university to see the projects being undertaken using the funds,” he said. The university has started a new campus at Mariira Farmers Training Centre in Kigumo subcounty after it signed a memorandum of understanding with the county. Governor Mwangi Wa Iria hived off 50 acres from the centre’s 140 acres of land for the campus that will offer agricultural courses. “We have seen a well-done science complex, equipment and laboratory at Mariira as part of its preparations to receive students taking agricultural courses,” the PS said. Vice chancellor Dickson Nyariki said the campus will strengthen the economy as farmers will provide food supplies to the students. “We have constructed over Sh200 million hostels that will accommodate 520 students and the funds have been put to good use,” Nyariki said. “The campus is for students undertaking Bachelor of Science. It is a farmers’ training centre that the county government has allowed us to use for five years and we have renovated it.” Afterwards, the vice chancellor said the university will construct its facilities. He urged youths to undertake agriculture saying agricultural research will help boost food security by enhancing crop productivity.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris