KCB Women’s volleyball team beat Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) in straight sets of (25-21 25-13 25-19) to go top of the standings during the fourth leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation National League played at the Nyayo National Stadium indoor arena Saturday. The bankers have six points from two matches same as Kenya Prisons although KCB have a superior set score. KCB coach Japheth Munala said they are better placed to qualify for the play-offs later in the year, adding that they are also focused on the forthcoming African Club Championship set for Tunisia from May 19 to June 1. “There is hope in this team and our focus going forward is to win the league title. We have channeled all our energy into the continental assignment and the build up is awesome,” Munala remarked. KDF coach Pius Birech said he was building a team and the loss was a learning experience for his charges. “We didn’t have proper preparation ahead of this match. And the injury of our reliable player Milgren Lutiva was untimely but we hope to recover ahead of the next leg as our focus is to qualify for the playoff,” said Birech. Lutiva picked the right knee injury in the first set after she landed awkwardly on the floor. KCB's experienced left attacker Mercy Moim and promising middle blocker Belinda Barasa shined in the first set. Poor reception was costly for KDF. Munala rested setter Faith Imodia in the second set with fast-rising Immaculate Nekesa prefered. Nekesa who is in her second season with the bankers, combined well with Edith Wisa, Shirleen Maiywa and hard-hitting Sharon Chepchumba infront of the net as they eased 25-13 in the second set. Both teams tied at 16-16 in the third set before KCB steered clear to win 25-19. Meanwhile, the matches pitting Nairobi Prisons against Kenya Army and Kenya Pipeline against Vihiga County failed to serve off. Kenya Army and Vihiga County were a no show with KVF Organising Secretary Ismail Chege saying Army had official commitment while he was non-committal on Vihiga saying they might show up ahead of Sunday's match against Kenya Prisons. Army are part of the security team manning the burial of former Kenya President Mwai Kibaki away in Othaya. However, Vihiga team manager Samuel Mugata in a phone interview revealed that they will not honour the the weekend fixtures due to financial constraints. Editing by Tony Mballa