Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday led the Kenya Kwanza battalion in condemning a Raila Odinga presidency. Speaking in Kerugoya, Kirinyaga County, Ruto insisted that no form of endorsement or appointment will make Kenyans change their stance, in the run-up to August 9 polls. This was in reference to the Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua's selection as the Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate and the state support that Raila is believed to be enjoying. The DP said Kenyans are a decided lot and as such Raila and his Azimio la Umoja coalition should be ready for a humiliating defeat. “Even though he stands behind President Kenyatta or Martha Karua, and no matter the support he gets from the state, Kenyans still know him by his true colours. A retrogressive oriented, inciteful and selfish individual and come August 9, that is what Kenyans intend to do away with,” he said. “Our opponents have been in power for the longest time and through the years they have nothing to show for it more so it’s leaders who have mastered the art of crumbling promising political formations. He did that not only with Jubilee but with CORD and NASA as well.” Ruto’s visit to Kirinyaga comes barely a fortnight after Karua’s heroic welcome in her home county of Kirinyaga. The second in command added that his opponent is not suitable to lead the country as he is not in touch with ordinary Kenyans’ economic struggles and does not have a sensible manifesto as well as a positive track record in his past years in leadership. “Our competitors say that the biggest problem choking Kenya’s development is ignorance. On the contrary, Kenyans are now exposed, insightful and well- learned, what is lacking though is job opportunities that will lead to economic growth and that is what we intend to achieve when we assume office,” Ruto said. His running mate Rigathi Gachagua echoed his sentiments, accusing their opponents of marketing Raila's presidency through Karua. He also called on local media to be responsible in their coverage and refrain from changing the context as far as the presidential race is concerned. “To the media, the contest is between Ruto and Raila. So, do not try to change the context by bringing in a surrogate candidate. If Raila is not fit enough to be a candidate, there is still time for him to withdraw his candidature and bring in someone else,” Gachagua said. Gachagua further said that should Kenya Kwanza take over the reins of power, development agendas in the central region will not halt, adding that he will lead in championing for the interests of the region. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi told Raila to retire honourably together with President Kenyatta. “He said he has been working as a co-president, and since he swore himself, we want him to retire together with President Kenyatta as we swear in DP Ruto.” Other leaders who accompanied Ruto in his Kirinyaga vote hunt mission include; Governor Anne Waiguru, former Kiambu governor William Kabogo, MPs Moses Kuria(Gatundu South), Gichimu Githinji(Gichugu), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) among others.