Tragedy struck a construction site in Burma, Nairobi, when a welder got electrocuted and died on the spot on Tuesday. Witnesses and police said Francis Omondi, 42, died after he accidentally leaned on a live electric cable at his workplace. His colleagues tried to help him in vain after realising that he had fallen down and lay unconscious for a while. Police were later called to the scene and picked up the body which was taken to the mortuary. Such accidents are on the rise at major construction sites in the city amid calls to ensure workers are protected. Other victims are electrocuted at their homes due to illegal power connections. In Kawangware, police say they are investigating an incident where a 26-year-old woman died after complaining of a stomachache. Elizabeth Wanjiku was found dead on her bed by her boyfriend. Elsewhere, police are investigating a case, where a 33-year-old salonist was found dead in her house in a suspected suicide incident in Ongata Rongai, Nairobi. The body of Evalyne Akinyi was found in her bedroom dangling from the roof. Witnesses at the scene said she used a cable and bed sheet to end her life and left a note, saying she was tired with life. Akinyi lived alone. In Mathare slums, the body of William Odhiambo was found in the toilet after he had committed suicide using a rope. The 29-year-old man had failed to report to work for two days prompting his colleagues to check on him, when they discovered the body. The motive of the incident is yet to be known. Cases of suicide have been on the rise in the past month as calls to address the vice gathers pace. Police say they record a suicide case almost daily across the country. Most of the victims are men. The World Health Organisation says such cases are attributed to joblessness, breakup of relationships or a death, academic failures or pressures. Legal and financial difficulties, bullying, previous suicide attempts, history of suicide in a family, alcoholism and substance misuse, depression and bipolar disorder. (Edited by Tabnacha O)