EALA MP Abdikadir Aden says he is confident the pastoralist community will overwhelmingly vote for Deputy President William Ruto. Aden is seeking to recapture the Balambala MP seat on UDA ticket, which he lost in 2017. He said Ruto has plans to change the region for the better. The aspirant spoke on Wednesday during campaign rallies at Saka, Sankuri and Balich. Aden was a close ally of Azimio flag bearer Raila Odinga and he got the Eala slot courtesy of ODM. He said Ruto has demonstrated time and again through his actions that he means well for the region. The legislator further said Ruto is better placed to salvage the county’s ailing economy and turn it around for growth. He said as leaders, they will campaign for Ruto’s candidature and sell the bottom-up economic model, which he says resonates well with residents. “The people of Northern Kenya will vote for Ruto on August 9 InshaAllah. He has a plan to improve the road network between Isiolo-Mandera, Garissa- Liboi as well as Garissa- Holugho via Masalani and Ijara,” Aden said. The former MP said the people of Balambala are business oriented and know the value of being connected to the national electricity grid. He said the connection will attract industries and create employment for the youth. “These are things DP Ruto has committed to implementing once he assumes office, unlike others who are issuing empty promises,” Aden said. The aspirant also said the issue of human rights abuse and extrajudicial killings will be a top priority in Ruto’s administration. Aden, who comes from Abduak clan, has been holding consultations with different stakeholders, urging them to support his bid. He said the electorate should re-elect him so that he can pick up from where he left, as not much has been achieved in terms of development in the last five years. “My commitment to the people is to put Balambala back on track and take it to the next level. With your support, we can achieve this,” the aspirant said. Others in the race are incumbent Abdi Omar (Jubilee), Mohamed Ares (ODM), Ismail Arale (Ford Kenya), Issa Yarrow (Kanu) and Aden Mukhtar. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)