National women's cricket team manager Brenda Mogusu says the upcoming Kwibuka T20 Tournament in Rwanda is part of a larger plan to become one of the best in the world. Kenya are the defending champions after beating Namibia in last year's final. However, Mogusu said the team has higher targets than defending their title for the fifth time. "There is no minimum target for the team. Of course, as the defending champions, there will be pressure. However, this team is capable of defending the title but we are also thinking long-term. That's why we have a mixture of experience and youth," Mogusu said. Some of the youngsters who will be debuting on the international stage include Flavia Atieno and Kelvia Ogola. The 14-lady team — with Mercy Aono and Josephine Abuom as reserves — will be captained by Queentor Abel with Sharon Juma as her assistant. Mogusu expressed hope that the older players will mentor the younger ones, especially on their maiden appearance in an international tournament. "We have Lavender (Alivitsa) who is our opening bowler and one of our most experienced players. We hope all the younger players can learn from her as is the case with all the other older players," she said. She further admitted the team still has some way to go to attain perfection but remains optimistic that the ladies will improve on their weak areas. "Of course, there are areas to be improved...that's why we named a youthful team. What we are trying to do right now is to get the combinations. Moving forward, that is what we want to do," she said. The Kwibuka tournament is held annually to commemorate the 1994 Rwanda Genocide and is in its eighth year. It runs June 7-19 before making way for the Rwanda Elite League on June 20-24. Abel will be representing Kenya in this International Cricket Council-sanctioned league for female cricketers.  Mogusu said the tournament will greatly benefit the opening bats lady by sharpening her skills. "The Elite League is an ICC-sanctioned local cricket league for women in Rwanda. Each of the countries participating in the Kwibuka Tournament was asked to present one player to play in this league and that's how we chose her," Mogusu said. She added: "We believe it is a great opportunity for her to learn and improve on her skills. She is our captain and our opening bats lady so we believe the exposure in the tournament will be good for her." Squad: Queentor Abel (Captain), Sharon Juma (vice-captain),  Daisy Wairimu, Vanessa Adhiambo,  Lavenda Alivitsa, Mercelyne Adhiambo, Veronica Abuga, Esther Wangari,  Melvin Kaghoiza, Mary Wambui, Sarah Bhakita,  Monicah Ndhambi,  Flavia Atieno, Kelvia Ogola; Reserve: Josephine Abuom,  Mercy Aono