President Uhuru Kenyatta has been appointed to chair Global Champion for the Africa Adaptation Acceleration Program (AAAP) , an organization seeking to support adaptation solutions. Global Center on Adaptation CEO Patrick Verkooijen welcomed Uhuru to his new role at a high-level bilateral meeting in Nairobi on Monday. In this role, President Kenyatta will carry forward his bold leadership on climate adaptation in Kenya to mobilize the global community to honor their commitment of doubling global climate finance. In his acceptance speech president Uhuru Kenyatta said Africa – indeed the world – is confronting multiple global shocks that are reverberating through economies. "The catastrophic drought in Kenya, exacerbated by climate change, is threatening lives and livelihoods, and needs an immediate response," Uhuru said. He added that many African nations, including Kenya, have already suffered losses of three to five percent of GDP because of the present climate threat. “We must not lose sight of the critical actions and global finance needed to address the climate and food crisis today, and to build a more resilient continent. AAAP is Africa’s plan that puts Africa’s youth and jobs at the center of the adaptation agenda for a green, prosperous Africa.” Uhuru has been one of the key driving forces behind the AAAP, launched by the president of the African Development Bank Group (AfDB) Akinwumi Adesina and CEO of the Global Center on Adaptation (GCA)  Patrick Verkooijen to mobilize $25 billion for climate adaptation in Africa by COP27. The African Union has endorsed AAAP’s two financing mechanisms, including the AAAP Upstream Financing Facility hosted by GCA, which has already influenced $3 billion in investment for adaptation in Africa since its inception in 2021. The AfDB administers the second financing mechanism through the climate set aside under the ADF-16 replenishment, which builds on the AfDB’s firm commitment to finance $12.5 billion – half of the AAAP investment target. In a statement  Verkooijen said Africa is tired of waiting and that he is deeply honored to continue working alongside President Kenyatta for Africa to build forward better by financing a greener, more resilient, and prosperous continent . “Adaptation is not only possible; it makes economic sense. Investing in climate adaptation is good for our health. Good for our planet. And good for our economies,” said Verkooijen. “The cost of action is not zero. Integrating resilience into agriculture and food systems in Sub-Saharan Africa will cost $15 billion annually. But the cost of inaction is more than 10 times more, estimated to be $200 billion annually.” President Kenyatta will address other global leaders during GCA’s Annual Meeting on June 16, which marks a key milestone ahead of the Africa Adaptation Finance Forum convened by GCA, AfDB and the African Union in September 2022.