At least 30,000 Kenyans attending Wednesday's  Madaraka Day celebrations at Uhuru Gardens have been urged to observe Covid-19 protocols. They should mask up and use hand sanitisers. The event comes 69 days before the August election. It will be President Uhuru Kenyatta's last national day celebrations. The gates will open from 6am. Nairobi regional commissioner Kang'ethe Thuku said no one will be allowed into the garden without a mask. Outside the gardens, it will be business as usual. No roads will be closed. Thuku said traffic police will be stationed to enable seamless flow of vehicles. The Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Police Service, General Service Unit, Administration Police and other security organs are expected to march past the President as is tradition. Different groups will present diverse cultural performances with a bit of the urban pop. Uhuru Gardens, which had been closed since August 2020, was reopened in December last year when Jamhuri celebrations were held. Last Saturday, it was opened again during the Kenya Defence Forces Museum Air Show Festival which was attended by President  Kenyatta. Uhuru chose the garden as the place to hold his last public national celebration because it is where Kenya celebrated its independence in 1963 and republic status in 1964. Uhuru said the garden will help Kenyans remember and celebrate their history. “Our founding fathers wanted generations to recall the darkness of our colonial past, but not to be stuck in the pessimism that dark memories can breed,” he said. Whenever Kenyans congregate at the place of remembrance, Uhuru said it will be a call to renew the soul of the nation and appreciate the pain felt and sacrifices made, by those who went before us. “The fallen soldiers and heroes are buried in unmarked graves in prisons and camps. That is why the project was initiated,” he said, Uhuru Gardens will be an arena where the past, the present and the future will converge. It has been a project more sentimental to the President who ordered its closure in August 2020. Since its closure, Uhuru has been making impromptu visits to the garden to see the progress. The President has been visiting the area every Sunday whenever he gets time. Dressed like a civilian and in an unmarked car, Uhuru drove into the gardens where a witness said a guard even asked him for a tip to let him into the gardens. He didn't know the President was tipping him. Uhuru was later shown where to park. The President toured the park with at least one bodyguard before he allegedly made a call to Chief of Defence Forces General Robert Kibochi and that same night the gardens were closed. The plan was to set up a government museum of history, a shopping complex, a business complex, a convention centre and a hotel at Uhuru Gardens. Uhuru will commission the Mashujaa museum at the facility on Tuesday, before the Madaraka Day event. The museum will act as an archive of Kenya’s history since 1800 The museum will showcase the lives of Kenya’s legendary ancestors including Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, Mekatilili wa Menza, Koitalel arap Samoei, and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and Nabongo Mumia among others. There will be the Tunnel of Martyrs, as a memorial to Kenyans who lost their lives during the country’s darkest moments. “This will range from the first to second World War to the victims of the post-election violence of 2008,” Uhuru said. In the Rope Gallery of the museum, a named rope will be dedicated to every one of the 1,090 heroic souls that were hanged during the colonial era. There will be a moment of Darkness Gallery, where Kenya’s lowest moments will be displayed. The Museum’s Hall of Innovation will celebrate the brilliant and game-changing ideas produced by Kenyans. "This hall will speak to the coming future and how our past has guided it. The hall marked by a spear pointing up characterises our latest exploits, our moments of great hope and national pride, and our bold path into the future,” Uhuru said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris