Amsterdam Marathon champion Jonathan Korir believes the men's marathon team to the Commonwealth Games can sweep all the podium places in Birmingham. Korir, also the captain of the Commonwealth Games marathon team, said they have trained hard and conferred among themselves on the task ahead. “We are grateful to have been selected in this team and we shall not disappoint. As the men's marathon team, we have talked among ourselves and believe it is possible to do a clean podium sweep," Korir said. Other members of the men's team include Philemon Kacheran and Eric Kiptanui with Michael Githae as a reserve. The women's team has Purity Changwony, Stella Barsosio, Maurine Chepkemoi, and Margaret Wangare. Wangare, the 2020 Los Angeles Marathon champion, equally assured that they are keen to leave a mark in England. "We want to promise you that we shall come back with the medals, and not only the gold, but we shall fight for a clean sweep,” the 2019 Honolulu Marathon champion said. The two were speaking after the handover of the Commonwealth Games marathon team to the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOC-K) by Athletics Kenya. While receiving the team, Nock president Paul Tergat described both teams as competitive and the best chance for Kenya to come away from Birmingham with medals in the road races. “We have gone through these athletes’ performance and we can assure you that we have the best team to represent the country at the Commonwealth Games. The only thing is to hand them a very prestigious position in the national team to carry the flag of the country,” Tergat said. He added: "I want to tell them that it is not a must but a privilege for them to carry the flag of Kenya brand. We expect more from them, both men and women. We want to run well and win all medals in Birmingham. And they have promised us they will do that." Nock Secretary-General Francis Mutuku said the marathoners will be training individually for the first month before heading into the camp later. "After one month, we shall bring them to a commonplace towards the Games. This worked well towards the 2021 Tokyo Olympic Games and we are using the same template. As much as they are training at their respective bases, they will enjoy all the privileges that all will enjoy,"he said. AK vice-president Paul Mutwii said they are happy as the federation to present what they believe is a competent and credible team. “These are athletes who have been competing in various cities around the world, winning some and therefore we thought they were better placed to represent this country during the very important championships,” he said. Team Kenya’s Chef de Mission to the Commonwealth Games, John Ogolla,  urged the team to target the best ever performance at the Games. The women's marathon team comprises—Maurine Chepkemoi (2:20:18, Amsterdam, 2021), Purity Changwony (2:22:16, Siena, 2021), Margaret Wangare (2:29:29, Los Angeles, 2020) and Stella Barsosio (2:22:08, Rotterdam, 2021)