Blessing Misago, a 27-year-old mother of three, has been undergoing a lot of challenges and has now turned to well-wishers for help. Misago, who does menial jobs for a living, said that she had to give her first-born daughter Annastancia Kavaya to a well-wisher after the death of her husband in 2020. “When I lost my husband in a road accident, I had to give my child to a well-wisher in Bungoma where she did her standard seven and eight,” she said. Her second-born daughter, aged six years, is suffering from a liver problem, she said. “She was diagnosed with liver problems but through the help of a good samaritan, I took her to hospital. Today she is living on special food, she cannot go a day without milk and if that happens, she collapses for three days,” she said. As if that is not enough, her third-born daughter, barely two years, has already been diagnosed with a cardiac problem. “My last born has a cardiac problem. She was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit in Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital for the last two weeks and I am looking for money to buy her drugs,” she said. Misago studied nursing at Kenya Medical Training College but she could not graduate because of Sh75, 000 fee balance. “I was raised by my grandmother who died and left me in the care of a guardian. I do not know any member of my family," she said. "My husband was the only family I knew and he took the responsibility of educating me but died before my graduation. "If I get help to clear my school fees balance, take my certificate and nursing license, my life and that of my children will change.” She said that her friends are now taking advantage of her situation by collecting money from people, claiming to help her. “I have a friend who raised money using my name but I didn't get anything. I only heard it from a stranger,” she said. Misago is also overwhelmed by the fact that her first-born did well in KCPE exam and scored 351 marks and has been called to Othaya Girls High School. However, she cannot take her to school because of financial challenges. Misago has also not paid her house rent for seven months now, she said. She is worried that her daughter might not achieve her dreams because of financial challenges. Kavaya had hoped to score over 400 marks but family challenges dragged her aspirations. “I knew I would perform well because of my hard work, but I could not get the marks I wanted  because of the environment around me. I am appealing to anybody to help me join school and help my mother who is struggling to raise us,” she said. Kavaya sat her KCPE at Masindu Primary School in Bungoma and was supposed to join Othaya Girls on May 4. The firstborn daughter, whose dream is to become a surgeon said she wanted to join Butere Girls’ High School. Misago said the only thing she wants is to see her daughter join any school because it has really affected her. “My prayer is to see my child joining any secondary school. It is not a must she goes to the school she was called to because of financial challenges. I’m not sure I will be able to pay for her transport and school fees,” she said “I would like her to repeat class eight but I’m afraid that things might be worse because I do not have a well-paying job.” (Edited by Tabnacha O)