Former KCB women's volleyball coach Edward Nalianya has announced he will be moving into administration by vying for the Kenya Volleyball Federation Presidency position in the June polls. Nalianya, who retired from active playing in 1998 and was privileged to head the federation in three regions namely; Nairobi, Nyanza, and Coast, feels he qualifies for a leadership role. The former banker, who also played for Railways Club in the mid-eighties, was part of the All Africa Games Kenya team fourth edition held in Nairobi in 1987. The 58-year-old went ahead to captain the Kenya team four years later in the same competition held in Cairo, Egypt. "I believe my vast experience both as a player, coach, and banking professional gives me the edge. Moving into management is the only way I can give back to the community that made me an icon in the game," a cheerful Nalianya remarked. While he acknowledged the good work the outgoing chairman, Waithaka Kioni, has done including winning the 2015 Grand Prix as Malkia strikers defeated Peru in Australia, Nalianya said both the men's and women's teams need to move to the next level. "The men's team must find their position in Africa. We are on the way back to the top but a lot needs to be done for them to win medals. Malkia have found theirs in the continental sphere. Though they look like stagnating, our position needs to improve in the world rankings." He went on: "Creating an enabling environment among the players, technical team, and the management to work in unison is another priority. We need to develop youth programs and establish competitions at all levels to prevent the youth from indulging in wrong vices." Nalianya said all these will only be possible with goodwill from the government. "The government must embrace sports and grant it extra attention so that Kenya continues to be the home of champions like in athletics," he said. The top seat has also attracted KVF vice-chairman Charles Nyaberi as well as David Kilundo. Kilundo is a former national women's team manager.