Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko now says he will not give even a shilling to a woman who has sued him for "neglecting their daughter". The former Governor asked the woman to take the child to him so that he can cater for her needs. Sonko claimed the woman has two other children who are being taken care of by their father. He now wants her to also give him the child to take care of her necessities. "Just like Jesus said “let children come to me...” Am kindly asking the lady alleging that she has my 15 years old kid to bring the kid to me," Sonko said on  Monday in a statement on Facebook. Sonko claimed the amount being demanded would serve other purposes other than what it has been asked for saying he won't grant the request. He said the woman is fond of using children to blackmail people, something he said he will not allow. "Hiyo part ya kutoanishwa pesa alafu anaenda kudunda 24/7 ndio hatutaelewana ata kidogo na sitoi hata bob." Sonko however did not deny or accept that child was his. "I’ll give the kid the best of what life has to offer. My family keeps on growing bigger day in day out, I feel happy and blessed adopting orphans, street families and neglected kids in my home," he said. In the court papers seen by the Star,  the woman claims Sonko has refused to take his parental responsibility and now wants the court to intervene. "The applicant and the respondent are the biological parents of the minor. The defendant has refused and or neglected to provide for the minor with adequate and or basic necessities such as education, good health food, clothing, shelter, entertainment and medication," read in part court papers dated May 12 and seen by the Star. The case has been filed at the magistrate court in Ngong, Kajiado county. The woman through Lawyer Dan Okemwa wants Sonko compelled to pay monthly upkeep of Sh448,450. She wants sonko compelled to contribute Sh50,000 for food and shopping, 45,000 for rent, 30,000 for security, 20,000 for clothing, 20,000 for househelp, Sh20,000 medical cover, Sh4000 minor's salon expenses, Sh5000 for DStv, Sh50,000 for minors school debit card, Sh5000 for gas among others. The woman, whose identity the Star has withheld to protect the minor, says her form two daughter has not been able to reopen school since April 26 because of a lack of fees. She wants the former governor instructed to pay Sh86,000 fees, Sh30,450 school-related expenses and another Sh37,000 outstanding school fees balance pending the determination of the case. The woman says the refusal by Sonko to attend to the child's needs, yet he is a person of means, has caused the minor emotional stress and ridicule among her peers. "The unequal treatment has affected the minor psychologically as she does not understand why her father is abrasive towards her. Besides, the minor has been bullied and ridiculed in school because of her surname thus causing her emotional trauma and has indicated she wants to be transferred from the school,” she said in the court papers. She said they entered into a relationship in 1999 which culminated in a romantic affair. Court papers show the relationship was an on and off affair. The two got their child on April 17, 2007.