World Under-20 400m bronze medallist Sylvia Chelangat believes her craft has gone up a notch after a month-long training camp for sprinters in Miramas, France. The camp was the result of a collaboration between Athletics Kenya and Miramas Athletics Club for a group of young Kenyan sprinters to sharpen themselves ahead of the World Under 20 Championship in Cali, Colombia in August year. Chelangat said she enjoyed training in world-class facilities and is now eager to soar higher. "My reaction from the blocks was slow and if there is something I have improved on in that department, my stay in France has helped me improve a lot. I was able to train under some good facilities that I had never seen before, I gained a lot of experience," the youngster said. Now wiser than when she left the country in April, Chelangat has now set her sights on improving on her bronze, won at last year's edition held at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi. "We went there to learn more skills and personally, I gained much from our coaches together with their counterparts from Miramas. Although I didn't achieve a new personal best, I have seen a lot of improvement in my speed and I hope I can achieve something great in Colombia," Chelangat said. Speaking at the same time, head coach Andrew Maritim said he is expecting eye-catching performances from the sprinters at the upcoming national trials for the Cali assignment. "They have learned a lot and are now ready for the trials. It is our prayer that a good number of them will qualify for the World Under-20 Championships," Maritim said. He thanked AK for coming up with such collaborations and expressed optimism the 11 athletes will positively impact their peers in the country by sharing the knowledge learnt from France. "Our aim was to expose these youngsters to facilities that we don't have in our stadiums. We achieved our target where we also had some competitions with the locals and our athletes posted good times," he said. Chelangat and Maritim were speaking at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport following their arrival from France on Wednesday morning.