Kenya wheelchair basketball 3×3 national team have a chance of making it into the medal bracket at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. Speaking after the team's final training session at Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium, team tactician Andrew Kihumba said their preps are very much on course. "We have been training twice a week but we expect to move it a notch higher when we report to camp," he said. "We have covered about 70 percent of what we need to do and the remaining 30 percent will be covered during residential camp," he said. He added: "We have a chance despite this being our first time in a competition of this magnitude." Kihumba, who led the team to the 2021 qualifiers in Johannesburg, South Africa, named eight players for residential training. The team will later be cut down to the final four players for the Club Games. "I've named eight players out of which only four will make the team. The other four will be in camp to help with training," he noted. ."Alfred Simiyu the Kenya Wheelchair Basketball Federation (KWBF) president was equally upbeat about the team's chances. "We displayed a good game in South Africa, finished second and we were granted a wildcard." "The experience we gained while playing there will be vital for us and I am sure we will not disappoint. "We are going there as underdogs but the team should not be underrated. The team will be making their debut in the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham City from  July 29- to August 2." The team includes— Caroline Wanjra, Eunice Atieno,  Stella Tiyoyi, and  Rachel Akoth. Others are—Joyce Ambasa, Phyllis Nyambura, Beth Wanja and Anne Wacuka. Meanwhile, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) teams left for Kigali, Rwanda yesterday for a two-week pre-season preparation. Team coaches Anthony Ojukwu and Sammy Kiki concurred that they will benefit immensely from the trip as they gear for the new season. Ojukwu revealed his new signings Jemimah Omondi from Storms and Belinda Okoth from Equity Bank have also made the trip.