Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua has dismissed reports accusing him of politically misleading the Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. In an interview with the Star, Wambua said he is a victim of desperate attempts by a section of the political class who wants the Wiper leader to support Raila. "I am a very small person to even imagine that I can mislead my Party Leader. People propagating all manner of lies are simply desperate for my party leader." He went on to say the Azimio political faction is in dire need of Kalonzo because they are certain their victory lies in the hands of the Wiper leader. The Senator told off Azimio leaders accusing him of misleading Kalonzo to focus on paying the price of denying Kalonzo the running mate ticket. "They want him to support RAO because they know without his backing the presidency will be a pipe dream for them. Instead of looking for excuses and scapegoats for their own blunders, let them focus on their campaign." The Senator has been the centre of accusation from a section of Kenyans for allegedly advising Kalonzo to bolt out of the Azimio coalition. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana is among the leaders who accused some Wiper MPs of misadvising Kalonzo. Kalonzo announcing his exit from Azimio and opting to vie for the presidency is one of his major political moves that has been 'blamed' on a section of MPs who have been accused of misleading him. The Wiper leader on Monday unveiled his running mate in a show of protest against the decision by Raila to nominate Narc Kenya leader  Martha Karua as his preferred deputy. The Wiper boss at the same time announced he had bolted out of the Azimio coalition and would therefore vie for the presidency on his party's ticket. But since unveiling his running mate, Kalonzo has kept off the public limelight and is said to have retreated to his rural home for reflection on his future. Even as he has been pondering on his next political move, reports have emerged that the Wiper leader could be heading back to Azimio. Reliable sources indicate that Kalonzo is yet to write to the registrar of parties to seek an exit from Azimio or even go to court, an indicator that talks were underway to convince the Wiper boss to join Azimio.