Fifteen institutions of higher learning in India have invited Kenyan students to study there. On Tuesday, hundreds of students flocked Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence in Nairobi to sample the courses being offered by these insitutions. Some of the institutions include Maharishi Markandeshwar, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Rathinam College of Arts and Science and PSGR Krishnammal College for Women. Others are Rajagiri College of Social Science and National Institute of Technology Durgapur. The event was attended by University of Nairobi vice chancellor Prof Stephen Kiama and Indian High Commissioner Dr Paul Virander. Kiama praised the new initiative, saying it will help expand the horizons of access to education. “When people access university education, they are trained to think differently,” he said. Kiama said there is a need to look at how national exams have been managed in the last couple of years. He said about 145,000 students out of about 800,000 who sat the 2021 KCSE exam attained C+ and above. “That is something in my view that needs to be addressed progressively so that those who can be able to follow through university education are allowed. And if they are not admitted here, they can be admitted in other parts of the world, including India,” Kiama said. Virander said India is a hub of culture, technology and innovation to keep up with the changing needs of the modern world. He said among the rapidly developing sectors of the country is higher education. Ranked as the second-largest higher education system in the world, India has more than 45,000 colleges and more than 950 universities. Virander said the advancements across various fields fused with the dynamic and diverse culture of the country make India a great option for students seeking further education. The Study in India programme is a flagship project introduced in 2018 by the Ministry of Education, Government of India. The programme is designed to encourage the global student community to pursue their higher education in India. Since its inception, Study in India has drawn students from more than  150 countries. Virander said the programme offers an easy, student-friendly platform for learners to explore access and apply to premier Indian institutes - offering degrees that are globally-accepted. There are 164 partner institutes under Study In India programme that are accredited by the government of India through the National Assessment and Accreditation Council or National Institutional Ranking Framework. Students have access to more than 2,600 course options. They include engineering, business, management, photonics, pharmacy, law, commerce and humanities at diploma, undergraduate, post graduate, master's and PhD levels. There are more than 1,00,000 seats available for international students, over 2,250 scholarship opportunities for the academic year 2021-22 and over 90,000 tuition fee waivers in the range of 25 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent. The Study in India website is a gateway for students to directly get information about partnering institutes in one place. Applicants can obtain more information about the programme from www.studyinindia.gov.in. Students can get their queries addressed on Study in India’s toll-free number: +91 120-6565065 or write to them at help.studyinindia@gov.in.