Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has outlined his agenda for Mombasa if elected governor in the August 9 general election. Nassir, who is battling to succeed Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on an ODM ticket, on Tuesday unveiled former Nation journalist Francis Thoya as his running mate. The duo will now be battling for the seat with Hassan Omar (UDA), Mike Sonko (Wiper) and William Kingi (Pamoja African Alliance). On Wednesday, Nassir said he will strengthen devolution in Mombasa by bringing services closer to the citizens through the ‘Serikali Mtaani Programme.’ “Within the first 100 days of our administration, we intend to roll out the ‘Serikali Mitaani Programme’ which will bring the government and all its services from the governor’s office to your doorstep,” Nassir said. “We will expand our administration from the current subcounty and ward administration level to the village level, where we will have village administrators, drawn from the local community.” He promised to push for the establishment of the Ward Development Fund, a kitty that will be managed by the 30 elected Mombasa MCAs. “The kitty will ensure that development trickles down to wananchi. Each ward should get an equal share of development,” he said. On security, the Mvita MP said his first priority is to work with the national government and religious organisations to tackle insecurity in the region. Mombasa has been experiencing a spate of attacks linked to juvenile gangs in Kisauni, Nyali, Old Town and Likoni regions. He said the menace was a social problem, but it could also be connected to the current political cycle in the country where a few selfish politicians misuse the youth for ill motives. “Our young people have lost time and hope. They are frustrated and hungry. Some of the youth have even turned to violent crime as a shortcut to earn a living,” Nassir said. He further said his administration will partner with the youth and the clergy from all religions to help to bring about a mind shift. Nassir said the shift will ensure the youth are meaningfully engaged in county programmes aimed at eliminating violent extremism. “As governor, my first priority will be to tackle the ticking time bomb of unemployment and the rising cost of living," he said. "We intend to roll out the ‘Skills Mtaani Programme’ to ensure our youth get training and certification of the skills they possess through the National Industrial Training Authority.” He also promised to give grants and loans to the youth, women and people with disabilities to enable them to grow their trade. In education, Nassir promised to introduce a free school feeding programme, especially targeting the Early Childhood Development Education centres to increase the enrolment rate. He said his government will run a conclusive bursary programme that will ensure no student is sent away from school due to lack of fees. The bursaries will be distributed through the 'Serikali Mitaani' structures, where eligible individuals will be picked. “I am passionate about education and the powers it has to change and transform lives. Under my administration, no child will be allowed to drop out of school due to fees or hunger,” Nassir said. He also outlined an elaborate social protection fund, where senior Mombasa residents aged 65 years and above will be receiving Sh2,000 monthly stipends. Nassir said the fund will complement ODM leader Raila Odinga's Sh6,000 monthly stipends to vulnerable families if he becomes president He further said his administration will roll out the Mombasa Care Health Initiative to supplement Raila’s ‘Baba Care Programme’. The two initiatives, he said, will ensure Mombasa residents are enrolled in the National Health Insurance Fund scheme to access health care services. “My administration will pay for the vulnerable residents who may not afford the fees,” he said. He added that he will resource the devolved health care institutions at the subcounty level to ensure there is adequate healthcare staff, medication and equipment to serve the needs of the people. “The current administration has put in place structures. Our role is now to equip them with personnel and right equipment so that it can be known that Mombasa takes care of its own people,” Nassir said. He said his administration has plans to step up and acquire equipment to deal with lifestyle diseases like diabetes and cancer which are now the leading cause of death. On the issue of strikes, especially in the health sector, Nassir said he intends to harmonise labour relations with the hope that industrial action will be a thing of the past. “We will engage in open and honest dialogue to resolve any issues arising from our workers,” he said. He further said Mombasa has a long history, spanning centuries, of communities having a peaceful coexistence. Nassir said it will be politically and ethically reckless for the Mombasa people to allow themselves to be divided along tribal and political lines for selfish political interests. “Today I make a commitment to you that our government will reflect the face of Kenya. We will sit down again and I will spell out my full agenda for Mombasa at our manifesto launch,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)