Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati is facing stiff competition from Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka in his quest to defend his seat in the August 9 polls. Lusaka is seeking to recapture governorship after losing it in 2017 under the Ford Kenya party ticket, while Wangamati is the Azimio la Umoja aspirant. The aspirants have been criss-crossing the county hunting for votes, each banking on his scorecard to woe voters. On Sunday, Lusaka said he is keen on re-introducing the bottom-up economic model which he said he initiated during his term. He said his administration set aside Sh118 million between 2015 and 2017  to empower small businesses in Bungoma markets. Lusaka added that when he clinches the seat, he will return the youth and women empowerment funds to support businesses. "When the current leadership took office, they removed the empowerment fund exposing residents to hardships. Immediately I send Wangamati home, I will restore the fund," Lusaka said. Lusaka also blamed Wangamati's administration for running down the  security lights he installed in open air markets. He promised to maintain them if elected to ensure Bungoma transforms into 24 hour-economy. "Security lights are very vital in our markets because they help improve safety and our people can close shop late to maximise profits," Lusaka said. He said his administration used to give 750 bags of subsidy fertiliser to the farmers in every ward but Wangamati has cut it to 200 bags. Lusaka added that he will double the fertiliser provision in every ward for farmers to enjoy fruits of devolution. On scholarships, Lusaka said students scoring as low as 150 marks in KCPE will benefit from the school fee kitty. Wangamati government targets students with 350 and above for the scholarship. He added that his administration will also focus on nurturing talents by working closely with the national government to improve Bungoma's economy. Lusaka asked western region to rally behind Deputy President William Ruto, saying the DP has good plans for Kenyans. Lusaka is enjoying the support of Ford Kenya MCAs in Bungoma. Wangamati, on the other hand, has challenged his rivals to show what they have done for the people, saying he has a lot to show during his five year-term. He cites the scholarship programme, a 300-bed capacity hospital, dual carriage way and the Masinde Muliro stadium in Kanduyi as some of his major achievements. (Edited by Tabnacha O)