Formula One packed up after Sunday’s Monaco Grand Prix with no certainty it would be back there next year, but offering plenty of advice on what needs to be done for a new race contract to be agreed. The sport has no shortage of venues clamouring for inclusion and is taking a close look at a calendar that could expand to 24 rounds. Miami made its debut this year, Las Vegas is entering in 2023 when Qatar returns as a fourth Middle Eastern round, and night races in Saudi Arabia and Singapore also add to the spectacle. Some feel Monaco, part of Formula One’s historic fabric, is in danger of being left behind. There has been talk of it becoming biennial, or being dropped entirely. Local organisers have played down the threat but F1 boss Stefano Domenicali, a man steeped in the sport’s history as a former Ferrari team principal, has indicated things have to change. The sense within the sport is that Monaco must make concessions, offer a better show and contribute more to the coffers. The racing is invariably processional, with overtaking as rare as cut-price grandstand tickets or cheap hotel rooms in Monte Carlo. The television coverage, organised locally, is regularly criticised while Monaco’s sponsorship with watchmaker Tag Heuer clashes with Formula One’s deal with Rolex. Monaco also pays substantially less than other races in hosting fees. “I’m biased. I live here, I love the city. I think what Monaco has to offer is spectacular,” said Mercedes team boss and co-owner Toto Wolff before Sunday’s race. “We have the support of the prince and Formula One is important for Monaco and Monaco is important for Formula One,” added the Austrian, before qualifying his words. “Monaco has to embrace the new realities of what the sport stands for today, and the impact it has on the world, and at the same time Monaco will always be respected within the Formula One community as something that is special. But no-one should take things for granted.” After Mercedes’ seven times world champion Lewis Hamilton started and finished eighth on Sunday, unable to pass Fernando Alonso’s slower Alpine, Wolff spoke again. “We need to look at this circuit layout, so people can’t drive round five seconds off the pace in a procession,” he said. “This is a fantastic venue and spectacle, but it would be great if the racing could be at the same level.” Meanwhile, nobody in Formula One four years ago would have foreseen Sergio Perez joining the select group of Monaco Grand Prix winners or Marcus Ericsson celebrating a life-changing Indianapolis 500 victory. The Mexican was overlooked and underrated then, hoping in vain for a top team to come calling, while the Swede toiled among tail-enders and also-rans. In five seasons and 97 races with Caterham and Sauber/Alfa Romeo, Ericsson scored 18 points and never finished higher than eighth. In three of those seasons, he drew a complete blank. When Ericsson left for a fresh start in America at the end of 2018, his fame largely rested on being blamed unfairly for Frenchman Romain Grosjean hitting a wall in Azerbaijan. Grosjean’s engineer triggered mirth across social media when he said over the radio, with no other car evidently involved, “I think Ericsson hit us”. Perez in 2018 was fighting for the Force India team’s survival, staying on as they came out of administration and morphed into Racing Point under the ownership of Canadian Lawrence Stroll. By the end of 2020 Perez was surplus to requirement, the team signing four-times world champion Sebastian Vettel for a new start as Aston Martin, and was heading for the exit until he won in Bahrain and Red Bull stepped in. Their victories in the two great races showed how fortunes can change and why drivers — eternal optimists — never abandon hope. “They say it is life changing winning this race,” said Chip Ganassi Racing driver Ericsson. “Coming to IndyCar one of my goals was to show what I could do, show my skills because I felt in F1 I didn’t get a chance to do that. So I came here.” He joins a growing list of ex-Formula One drivers who have achieved more by leaving than staying, even if Grosjean again hit the wall at Indianapolis. Japan’s Takuma Sato had one podium in 90 F1 starts before winning Indy in 2017 and 2020. American Alexander Rossi started five races with struggling Marussia before winning Indy in 2016. Perez, who had to wait 190 races for his first grand prix success and 215 until his first pole, will not be joining them when the time comes to leave F1.