Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja- One Kenya has moved to edge Deputy President William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza Alliance out of vote-rich Western region. Azimio is understood to be keen on presenting one candidate for every seat to face off with those nominated by Kenya Kwanza’s ANC or Ford Kenya parties. Lugari MP Ayub Savula has since dropped from the Kakamega governor race to support former Kenya Electricity Transmission Company CEO Fernandes Barasa. Barasa is vying on an ODM ticket while Savula wanted to run on Democratic Action Party of Kenya. Both are members of Azimio. Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga, who was to run for the Kakamega Woman Representative seat on DAP-K ticket, has also shelved the quest in the favour of ODM's Elsie Muhanda. “There are ongoing talks with other aspirants in Western region under Azimio to drop their bids in favour of others,” an insider told the Star. Efforts to get a comment from Savula on the matter were unsuccessful as the MP did not return our calls. With negotiations intensified, the battle for Western now heads to fever pitch as Ruto and Raila scramble for the region’s 2.2 million votes. Barasa’s main challenger is now Senator Cleophas Malala of Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale dropped out of the Kakamega governor race in favour of Malala. Khalwale will vie for the Senate seat following a deal that was brokered at Deputy President William Ruto’s Karen home. Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has however downplayed inroads made by Azimio in Bungoma and Western at large. Lusaka, who is seeking to reclaim the Bungoma governor seat on Ford Kenya ticket, said DAP-K’s momentum has considerably reduced since it was launched in January. He said Ford Kenya is targeting a clean sweep of all political positions in the county. “Apart from vigorously campaigning for our presidential flagbearer William Ruto in the region, we will spare no effort as we seek to capture all the 45 MCA posts, nine MPs, the Woman Rep, Senator and governor positions,” he said. Speaking during a meeting with Bungoma leaders at his Nairobi residence, Lusaka said party supporters who had moved to DAP-K are returning to Ford Kenya in large numbers. His remarks come barely a week after DAP-K officials in Webuye East defected back to Ford Kenya. The officials accused DAP-K of sidelining them in party operations. In Kakamega, reports indicated the deal between Barasa and Savula was negotiated by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Defence Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, who is associated with DAP-K. Oparanya has served two terms, paving way for battle of the bigwigs. According to reports, if Barasa wins, Savula will choose five members to the county executive committee. It is also understood that DAP-K will produce the next assembly speaker from the northern area of Kakamega, where Savula hails. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have been making frequent trips to Western, wooing voters to support Kenya Kwanza Alliance. Wetang'ula’s Ford Kenya and DAP-K are locked in a fierce battle for the control of Bungoma county politics. Wetang'ula has been attacking DAP-K, terming it an extension of ODM. Kakamega has the highest number of registered voters at 743,736, Bungoma 559,850, Busia 351,048 and Vihiga 272,409 and Trans Nzoia 339,622 votes.  (edited by Amol Awuor)