The entry of Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, and his Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua has bolstered the chances to Kenya Kwanza gaining votes ahead of the August 9 poll. Kingi, and Mutua who are the party leaders of Maendeleo Chap Chap and Pamoja Africa Alliance respectively have been strong critics of Deputy President William Ruto. Early last month, the two political outfits joined more than 20 others in signing their agreements that formally admitted it into the Azimo la Umoja One Kenya Coalition. But, on Tuesday, Kingi announced he was ditching the coalition a few days after the Mutua also called it quits over what they termed as deals shrouded in secrecy within the camp. Mutua claimed that the coalition only favoured some few political parties, leaving others in the dark. “To this end, we have decided to break our ties with Azimio la Umoja. Therefore, the contract between Azimio and MCC is null and void,” he stated. Mutua said the MCC party has been kept in the dark over the affairs of the alliance and it has been unable to access the agreement it signed or understand its terms. While being received by Deputy President William Ruto, Kingi voiced similar concerns confirming that attempts by PAA to have the copy of the agreement they signed had been frustrated. “Dealings in Azimio are shrouded in disturbing deep secrets and mistrust, consultation and decisions are made by a few and forced down the throats of the majority of the constituent parties,” Kingi said. While their impact may be insignificant to the Kenya Kwanza considering they are serving their final terms in office, their political influence in the regions that have for a long time been perceived to be ODM leader Raila Odinga’s support base may help Ruto earn votes. Political analyst Javas Bigambo is of the view that while the exit of two may not be a big loss to Raila, it has shaken some pillars within the camp. “In political season like this, it is time for harvesting and every kind of basket means a lot, politics is about perception, votes and consolidating bases for support,” Bigambo said in a TV interview. He added that their departure has unsettled the whole Azimio camp because of the impacts which the two have in their regions. “They are now draining guns on the leaders because they aware of their influence. Mutua’s impact may not be so huge since it has not shaken the entire Kamba land but it has shaken some pillars considering MCC won the last two elections and also has MCAs,” he remarked. He said Mutua is known to be a ferocious campaigner whose value will be felt in the Kenya Kwanza camp. Kingi, he argued, is an eloquent and persuasive campaigner at the grassroots level whose shift to Ruto’s team has a political weight. “The Coastal region has for long and historically been a Raila’s base and his exit means something is stirring up at the region and that it will not be solid for him again in the August poll which is something to worry about,” he observed. He further pointed out that two centers of power existing in Azimio-Oka coalition is to blame for the two leaders. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM Raila Odinga are both pulling strings within the party to the disadvantage of other parties.