ODM leader Raila Odinga has promised to seal all corruption loop holes in Kenya once elected president in the August 9, polls. This, he said, will ensure his government's development agenda is not crippled and his social protection service pledge becomes a reality. The opposition chief was speaking in Vihiga county where he met local leaders. Raila revealed that Kenya loses Sh700 billion yearly to corruption. He said he will ensure every family that is unable to foot its daily needs is cushioned through his Sh6,000 monthly programme for the vulnerable. "Those who are saying I can't manage that will be in for a rude shock when my government implements that," Odinga said. "Kenya loses sh 700 billion yearly, I will seal all corruption channels to ensure that money is used on social protection services and other projects," Odinga added. The Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate is in the western region for 5 days where he will be drumming up his presidential support. Odinga is currently being hosted by Vihiga governor Wilber Ottichilo. Other leaders present include senator George Khaniri, nominated Mp Godfrey Osotsi, Kenneth Marende, Raphael wanjala, Junet Mohamed, John Mbadi, Aseka Miradi, among others leaders. Ottichilo on his side urged the opposition leader Raila Odinga to push for Kaimosi University to be chartered fully by President Uhuru before he leaves the office. "We have land for the school of government, granite factory and Belgium water projects that have stalled. Baba please. help us to get some funding from the central government so that we can finish them," Ottichilo said. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, who accompanied Raila, criticized  William Ruto on his pledge to settle land conflicts in the coast region. "You can't be telling us issues of bottom-up and you can't implement. Please share that 2000 acres of land in Taita first to those people first," Junet said. Odinga further said he will finish state projects that Uhuru has started across the country. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri who is eyeing governor's seat urged Odinga to treat all parties in the coalition equally