Deputy President Wiliam Ruto on Wednesday endorsed Malindi Member of Parliament Aisha Jumwa for the Kilifi governor seat. Ruto who was addressing a rally at Msabaha grounds in Malindi urged Kilifi residents to elect Jumwa to become the second governor of the county. He exuded confidence that if Jumwa and her Kwale counterpart Fatuma Achani are elected as governors, the region stands to benefit a lot. "I urge you to elect Aisha Jumwa she is the one who is best fit for this seat in Kilifi county." His endorsement came at a time when there was chaos and tension at the rally following the supremacy battle between UDA supporters and PAA since both parties are in Kenya Kwanza and have candidates. In his Speech, Ruto only said PAA Party leader Amason Kingi together with other Coast leaders among them Salim Mvurya, Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, and Jumwa had sat down and came up with a written agreement that will see the revival of port services in Mombasa, addressing historical justice and development of infrastructure such as roads, health services and reviving the economy. He accused Raila of copying his manifesto and urged Kenyans to reject him as he lacked the originality of ideas for Kenyans. “My government will continue implementation of projects of infrastructure such as roads health and electricity,” he said. If elected Ruto said his government will set aside Sh 100 billion to address employment for youth and women in the country “Before December every citizen will have health insurance for free as many Kenyans fear going to hospital due to lack of funds,” he said. Ruto said Raila has been in the Handshake for the last four years but failed to bring back port services to Mombasa. Also present were Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, Kilifi’s Amason Kingi, Kithure Kindiki, Moses Kuria, Alfred Mutua, Jaguar among others. Jumwa and George Kithi the PAA candidate for Kilifi spoke during the rally. Jumwa urged Ruto and Kingi to secure a job for Kithi at the national level. The Vocal Malindi MP said she stands a better chance to become the governor as she is more conversant with the County issues than Kithi. Jumwa and Kilifi’s Owen Baya maintained that Kilifi was a UDA Zone and urged Kilifi residents to vote for six pieces from the president to MCAs. Kingi who was the host said the Azimio la Umoja delegation was in the Coast but lacked an agenda for the people, unlike Ruto who promised to address the people’s problems such as Port and land issues. Kingi while mentioning PAA candidates said they are the ones who are going to carry the day on August 9. Before his speech, Kingi demonstrated a press-ups exercise to the public in front of the DP. “Let's reject the people who have no agenda for the people of Coast and support Ruto as he is the one with the agenda of transforming the lives of the pe0ople,” he said. Mvurya told Coast residents to vote for Ruto as he is the one who will address the historical injustices and bring back port services to Mombasa. He said it is the Deputy President who will be able to address the land issues and bring an end to the squatter problems.