In Matthew 7:24-27, Jesus speaks of the difference between a wise and foolish builder. The wise builder, He describes as one who hears His words and puts them into practice — akin to a man who built his house on a rock. On the other hand, the foolish builder is the one who does not put Jesus'  words into practice but builds his house on sand,  which soon comes to ruin when the floodwaters rise and winds beat against it. None of us was ever born a smart person, able to instantly emit wisdom and knowledge on all matters life. The things we do today have been based on lifelong education and the wisdom and knowledge acquired from around us. We all desire wisdom and to manoeuvre through life with intelligence and knowledge. However, the question we need to ask ourselves is the source of this wisdom we desire and pursue. James 3:13-18 speaks of the difference between earthly and heavenly wisdom. Whereas the latter is described as pure, peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere, earthly wisdom is described as full of bitter envy and selfish ambition. We live in a world that exalts individualism and bravado, instead of humility and selflessness. Many times, we turn our ears to 'motivational speakers' and worldly wisdom, which tell us to pursue our goals ruthlessly with no regard for repercussions on others. Not so much with the heavenly wisdom...it is a form of wisdom that comes from the Holy Spirit who knows the mind of God. He puts His Spirit in us, who then guides us into all truth as our wonderful counsellor. Unfortunately, many times we grieve Him by hardening our hearts to His voice. We turn our ears away from Him and lean on our own understanding to pursue our life's desires. We forget that God, as our manufacturer, knows us even more than we know ourselves and is thus the only one suited to guide us through the storms of life. You want to date and find a wife? Turn your ears to God's wisdom that He may guide you on the right way to do this. You want to make new friends? As proverbs 2:1-2 says, store up His commands within you, turn your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understanding. Wisdom begins when we fear the Lord and purpose to obey His commands and statute...walking in accordance to them wholeheartedly. The entire Proverbs 2 talks of the moral benefits of heavenly wisdom: it will keep us away from the ways of wicked men; we will understand what is right and just; we will understand the fear of the Lord. Let us rid our hearts of stones and thorns that prevent us from accepting God's Word and turning our ears towards His wisdom. Let us apply our hearts to understanding and we will be careful to do everything God wants us to do as written in His word. Then as Proverbs 3:7-8 says, we will enjoy good health and nourishment to our bones when we fear the Lord and shun evil.