Garissa Township MP Aden Duale says the Kenya Kwanza team is determined to end politics of deceit that has become the norm. He said the country has become so used to political conmanship, backstabbing and betrayal, a trend which the Kenya Kwanza team wants to change. The former Majority Leader in the National Assembly spoke on Sunday while addressing more than 280 principals and head teachers from primary and secondary schools in Garissa Township. Duale accused his counterparts in Azimio of insincerity and dishonesty in their partnerships saying such a thing will never happen in Kenya Kwanza. “We have all seen what has been happening in the Azimio. Party leaders have been leaving in protest after being shortchanged. They noticed that they were dealing with dishonest individuals whose sole intention was to use and dump them. “The likes of Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula, Alfred Mutua, Amason Kingi and now Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka have all left after sensing they were being ‘played’. For how long will we as a country continue engaging with such kind of politics?” he said. Duale, a close confidant of the Kenya Kwanza presidential candidate William Ruto, said their coalition was growing strong by the day and they will win the election by a big margin. “Our party UDA is growing by leaps and bounds and so are all the parties affiliated to Kenya Kwanza. We have shared our plan to better the lives of ordinary Kenyans and the response is overwhelming. The future looks really bright under our government,” he said. The legislator said their priority as Kenya Kwanza is to fix the economy, support small traders, create jobs and expand economic opportunities for every Kenyan. “Now,we all have our full teams in place. Our competitors chose Martha Karua and we settled for Rigathi Gachagua. Lets all campaign for our respective candidates peacefully and let wananchi decide the kind of leaders they want on August 9th,” he said. Duale, who will be seeking to defend his seat for the fourth consecutive term on a UDA ticket, thanked the electorate for standing with him throughout. “I don’t have enough words to thank the people of Garissa Township who have stood with me for the last 15 years, since I joined politics. This only serves to show the level of confidence you have in me. "Together we have done a lot in terms of developing our great constituency. With our votes, I promise to sustain the same momentum,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)