Kenyan 5000m specialist Jacob Krop says his grand dream this year is to clinch a place on the plane to the World Championship in Oregon. Krop was missing from the list of athletes to represent Kenya at next month's Senior Africa Athletics Championships in Mauritius as Daniel Simiu, Michael Kibet and Ismael Kurui earned the right to fly the national flag in the 12-and-a-half lap race in Reduit. The 2021 Adizero Roads to Records 5k champion admits this miss has been featuring in his mind as he eyes upcoming international assignments. "Unfortunately, I did not make it to the team for the Africa Championships. So now I've to shift my focus to the World Championships. My desire is to earn my ticket to the championships and once there I am confident of bringing a medal back home," Krop said. It has been a rough April for Krop as he also lost his Roads to Records Adizero 5k title in Herzogenaurach, Germany after finishing fifth. However, he redeemed himself with a first-place finish in the men's 5000m at the Kip Keino Classic, a fortnight ago. Krop timed 13:12.19 as Istanbul Half Marathon second-place finisher Daniel Mateiko (13:13.45 ) and national champion Daniel Simiu (13:14.51) finished second and third respectively. The Africa junior 5000m silver medalist said it was a relief to finally get a win after a long time. "I like how it played out...the race went well. It was a morale booster. I had prepared well for this race to come and win. Now I want to intensify my training even as I prepare for the World Championship. I am optimistic of good things ahead," Krop said. Apart from the World Championship, Krop is hopeful of running in the Diamond League series, specifically the Monaco leg on  on August 10 this year. Elsewhere, World Under 20 3000m champion Zena Jemutai is exuberant about her plans to transition to the senior ranks. Jemutai clocked 15:12.59 to finish third in the women's 5000m as Ethiopian Girmawit Gebrzihair (14:49.97) and Kazakhstani's Daisy Jepkemei (15:08.97) finished first and second respectively. "This is my second-ever senior race and I am happy about the performance. I want to compete at the World Championships and this seems like a tall order. It calls for more work in training to work on the weak areas and to ensure I am in prime condition to contest for Oregon,"Jemutai said. The junior gave credit to her coach, Eric Kimaiyo, for the hard work he has put in to perfect her craft. "I thank him so much for the work he has put in. He has worked so hard to prepare me and is the reason for my win in the Kip Keino Classic," she said.