Deputy President William Ruto has said his administration will not reward loyalists with lucrative positions should he be elected president at the August polls. His government, he said, will instead focus at instituting policies that support the general growth of the economy. "We will not look at who will get into which position but we'll focus on ensuring the existence of friendly policies for all traders to prosper," the DP said. The DP was speaking in Busia at the Mungatsi Technical Training Institute where he addressed an economic forum. The event was convened by the DP and his Kenya Kwanza counterparts Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula. Other leaders present included Nambale MP John Bunyasi and his Gatundu South counterpart Moses Kuria. Teso South MP Mary Emase, former Budalangi MP Ababu Namwaba and a host of Senate, MP and MCA aspirants under the Kenya Kwanza coalition also attended the event. The DP said his priority as commander in chief will be to uplift the livelihoods of ordinary Kenyans struggling to make a living at a time the economy is strained. He said his government will give Kenyans the opportunity to share their struggles as they propose the best policies they believe can aid in the transformation of their individuals lives. The Jubilee administration, he said, has not given Kenyans the opportunity to air their views on how best the economy can be improved specifically among struggling traders. The second in command said under his government, trade licenses and business permits for small scale traders may be abolished to support the struggling business sector. The DP said Kenyans should elect leaders based on their development record. "Time to support leaders without proof of what such leaders can demonstrate in their ability to transform the country for the better is over," Ruto said. Mudavadi said despite Kenya being regarded as an economic powerhouse in the region, it economic growth statistics need in-depth scrutiny. He said ODM leader Raila Odinga is an untrustworthy leader who Kenyans should not support at the presidential level. "You should not support leaders who we know will be remote controlled," he said. "I can't believe Raila is who he is today," he added. Wetangula said under the Kenya Kwanza government, regional trade will be given priority. He said the Mombasa-Malaba highway will be dueled to facilitate regional trade. Earlier at the event, boda boda riders, salonists, fishermen and players in the tourism, health and agriculture sectors addressed the economic forum and shared their concerns with the DP. Ruto will address a rally in Busia town on Saturday as he continues to galvanize support in the Western region ahead of the August polls.