Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) said that it averted a loss of Sh6 billion by disrupting corruption networks, and recovered stolen assets worth Sh6.3 billion in the past financial year. This is according to the Commission's Report for the FY 2020/21 released on Thursday. "Illegally acquired and unexplained assets valued at approximately Sh6.3 billion were recovered through court proceedings and out-of-court statements," the report said. The averted loses, and recoveries were among the 104 files investigated in the duration. "The Commission completed 104 investigation files on corruption and economic crimes which were forwarded by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for review and recommendation." The report listed among the loses averted as a claim of fraudulent compensation for land and other properties in the construction of the Nairobi-Mombasa carriageway at the Athi-Machakos turnoff, against the National Land  Commission and re-evaluation undertake. The amount of loss disrupted was Sh3.4 billion. A tender contract by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Cooperatives worth Sh2.2 billion was cancelled after the Commission inquired into allegations of irregular procurement of a ultra-modern fish hub at Liwatoni Fisheries Complex in Mombasa County. Two more tenders were cancelled in the last financial year, one at the Wajir County Government amounting to Sh80,000 and the other to Bomet County worth Sh40,000. The reported stated that EACC has also completed 83 investigations on violations of Chapter Six of the Constitution and Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012. Among the completed investigations were cases of fraudulent payments and irregular procurement of Covid-19 Emergency products against KEMSA and claims of money laundering and acquisition of public property against Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA). There were several cases of graft against the county governments of Migori, Tana River, Garissa, Mandera, Isiolo, Bungoma and Kericho, among others. EACC further investigated Judiciary for irregular procurement and bribery into a security contract awarding, worth Sh 60 million in the FY 2016/17 and FY 2017/18. The Council of Legal Education was under investigations for claims of irregular award of tender for partitioning an office space at Karen Office Park for Sh 14 million. The Commission completed 39 investigations into bribery allegations. "Of the 39, 22 were taken to court, 14 closed and three referred to other institutions," the Report said. EACC is currently investigating 96 cases on claims of bribery. The Commission reported that it has 332 cases on corruption , economic crimes and unethical conduct pending before courts. It further reported that in the past year it has completed 26 cases on the same with 21 convictions, two acquittals and three withdrawals.