Vihiga Queens' striker Topista Situma is worried about the threat posed by Kangemi's Fasila Adhiambo as the race for the 'Golden Boot' reaches fever pitch. Situma leads the Kenya Women's Premier League goal-scoring chart with 13 goals. Zetech Sparks' Puren Alekwe is second with 12 while Adhiambo completes the top three places with 11 goals with four matches left for the 2021/22 season. Minnows Kangemi are fighting relegation but Fasila has been a shining light for the Kawangware-based side, whose fate will be sealed this weekend should they lose to champions Vihiga. Situma has been a revelation to the Legacy Makers in the second leg after the departure of Jentrix Shikangwa and Tereza Engesha. A brace against Sparks, a hat-trick over Bunyore, and a four-goal haul against Kayole propelled the Bishop Njenga alumnus to the top. "Fasila's fighting spirit is unmatched. Her mature displays defy her young age. She is a top player and there is room for improvement. Her movement, composure, and skill level are equally good." Situma who was the top scorer in the 2010 national and East Africa secondary school games with six and nine goals respectively, added: "I was in awe of her hat-trick against Trans-Nzoia Falcons. She has single-handedly carried Kangemi this season and could be the next big thing in women's football." The 28-year-old Situma had limited playing time in the first part of the season because Engesha and Shikangwa were untouchable striking partners. Shikangwa, now playing for Fatih Karagmuruk in Turkey and Engesha's switch to South Korea's Icheon Hyundai meant Situma was the only center-forward left on the team. "I want to prove a point that it is not yet over. The exit of the two was a blessing in disguise. We have wrapped up the league title but we still have a lot to play for. The intention is to win the golden boot." Asked if the team's title triumph with four games to spare will thwart her ambitions, she said: "We still have the fire in our bellies. We will spare no team and the unbeaten run will sum up the title win." Vihiga will play Kangemi, Thika, Bunyore and Wadadia in their remaining matches. 