Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo wants the ODM national elections board to issue him with the nomination ticket to defend his seat. The MP said the timeline issued by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal had elapsed but he has not received the certificate. Odhiambo spoke to journalists outside Parliament Buildings on Monday. “I am sure my sister Catherine Mumma – chair of the ODM national elections board – who is a lawyer, should know better the implications of not honoring the decision of the tribunal,” he said. On Saturday, the tribunal overturned the party’s decision to deny him the ticket and directed the board to issue him the nomination certificate within 24 hours. In the ruling, the tribunal, a quasi-judicial body, stated that the party erred in denying Odhiambo the ticket after he won the nominations. A decision upheld by the party’s internal disputes tribunal. The MP said he is optimistic that he will be issued with the certificate after the win and subsequent petition by his competitor, Jalang’o Midiwo. “Our party is democratic. From what I know of our party, I believe that by the end of the day, it will pronounce itself on this matter to ensure that people do not feel a bit of injustice,” he said. Last Friday, Jalang’o, who is the elder brother of the deceased Jakoyo Midiwo, announced that the party had cleared and issued him with the nomination certificate. This after the party Central Management Committee, a powerful party organ chaired by party leader Raila Odinga, nullified the nomination results and ordered the board to issue a direct ticket. However, Odhiambo rejected the decision and moved to the Tribunal. He said he has already reached out to ODM director of elections Junet Mohamed and got assurance that negotiations were underway with regards to his fate. “I am aware that there are consultations going on but I am yet to receive a phone call telling me where to pick the ticket. “But I am optimistic, out of respect for the people of Gem, that the party will comply with the tribunal's decision,” Odhiambo said. The legislator said he will not decamp the party or run as an independent candidate despite the frustrations. “In your own mother’s house, if there is a fight, do you run away? You don’t. You must occupy your position in the house because you are a rightful son of your mother. You don’t go away,” he said. In the party nomination conducted on April 13, Odhiambo garnered 7,405 votes against Jalang’o's 6,384. However, Jalang’o immediately appealed the verdict before the party’s tribunal but his appeal was rejected by the party’s appeals tribunal. He told the tribunal that the exercise was marred with violence and intimidation of voters. The chairman of the tribunal Fredrick Orego who read the verdict said the appellant failed to prove that the nominations were not conducted within the law and in conformity to the rules of the ODM primaries. Jalang’o, according to the tribunal, also failed to demonstrate that there was widespread violence and irregularities that would invalidate the outcome of the exercise. Meanwhile, the legislator faulted Deputy President William Ruto for disrespecting the Office of the President with constant attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I want to ask Ruto. Even if you don’t respect Uhuru, respect the constitution of the Republic of Kenya, which created that office,” he said. The MP said the two leaders should solve their differences away from the glare of the camera. He said their public exchanges are sending a bad picture to the youth who look up to them for values. Odhiambo rooted for Raila to succeed Uhuru, saying he has proved capable of tackling the challenges currently bedeviling the country. “Raila was in Nyeri and we heard what Martha Karua said about him. He is a democrat and a fighter of justice for all,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)