Opener Rohit Sharma just needs to make minor adjustments to his batting to regain form, the Mumbai Indians captain said after his team finished last in the Indian Premier League (IPL) this season. Limited-overs stalwart Rohit managed only 248 runs from 14 games at an average of 19.14, failing to score a single fifty for the first time in his IPL career. "A lot of things that I wanted to do didn't happen," said Rohit, India's captain, after Mumbai finished their campaign with a five-wicket victory against Delhi Capitals on Saturday. "But this has happened with me earlier as well, so it's not something I am going through for the first time. ... I need to take care of the mental aspect and think about how I can return to form and perform." Rohit's struggles with the bat mirrored five-time champion Mumbai's disappointing campaign, in which IPL's most successful franchise effectively dropped out of the playoff race after eight successive losses. "It was a bit disappointing season for us as we couldn't execute our plans at the start of the tournament," Rohit said. "In tournaments like the IPL, you have to build that momentum. Rohit hopes to have addressed his batting issues before India hosts South Africa for a five-match Twenty20 series next month. Meanwhile, Royal Challengers Bangalore sealed the final playoff spot in the Indian Premier League (IPL) after Delhi Capitals suffered a five-wicket defeat by Mumbai Indians on Saturday. Bangalore will face Lucknow Super Giants in Wednesday's eliminator game, while Gujarat Titans will take on Rajasthan Royals in Tuesday's playoff match. Delhi had their qualification fate in their hands, but they were knocked out by Mumbai as Jasprit Bumrah's three-wicket haul and Tim David's quickfire 34 off 11 balls proved vital. Delhi set Mumbai a target of 160 and they looked to be on course for a win, with Mumbai 92 for 2 at the end of 14 overs, requiring a whopping 68 runs in six overs. In the 15th over, Delhi appealed for a caught-behind for Mumbai batsman David but the umpire turned it down. Delhi captain and wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant opted against a review and was left to rue his decision after replays showed David feathered an edge off Shardul Thakur and would have been out for a duck. Gifted a lifeline, David went on to hit four sixes and two boundaries as he led Mumbai to a win, crushing Delhi's hopes of advancing. 