Having sex at an early age has been blamed for rising cervical cancer cases among girls in Kwale. County nursing officer Edward Mumbo said many young mothers below 25 years have been diagnosed with the disease. County health studies show a huge percentage of women infected with the human papillomavirus that causes cervical cancer. Health department statistics indicate that out of 205 cancer cases, 99 women of 20-64 years were diagnosed with cervical cancer. A study by the Centres for Disease and Control Prevention shows that nine of every 10 cases of cervical cancer are caused by HPV. Mumbo said the majority have also been diagnosed with sexually transmitted infections including HIV/AIDs. The official said lack of sexual education is the cause of many teenage girls engaging in sex. "The increased rate of sexually transmitted diseases and HPV cases is crystal clear that people start sexual activities at a very tender age in Kwale and it is because of poor parenting," he said. Mumbo said the piling teen unwanted pregnancy and STI infection cases make it obvious that many people in the region don't use protection. He said about 36 per cent of women giving birth in county public health facilities are teens below 19 years. Mumbo said parents are not explaining to their children matters of sexual reproduction and the dangers of engaging in premature sex. The nurse said outdated traditions and cultures of not discussing matters sex  with children are to be blamed for the current predicament. "The habit of pampering teens by denying them the truth about their body changes is the main cause for this problem," he said. Mumbo said there is need to break silence on the sexual reproduction and healthy menstrual hygiene. Recently, county ambassador for menstrual hygiene Christine Mwaka Mvurya reported a drop in teen pregnancy cases by over 10 per cent. She said this year, the region recorded about 4,000 cases compared to the previous years of more than 8,000. But Mumbo said more is required to be done by giving children adequate guidance and counselling. He said parents should not fear their children and talk to them in order to become responsible citizens and keep off from unwanted pregnancies and lifetime infections. The officer said there should be combined efforts between stakeholders and parents to help children abstain from engaging in early sexual activities. He said most of the time mothers are left with the burden of raising children alone while male parents abdicate their responsibilities. Mumbo advised parents to take girls for cervical cancer screening for early detection and treatment. He said there are about nine health facilities that provide chemotherapy treatment in the region. At the same time, urged residents to get vaccinated against HPV, especially for girls of age between 10 and 14 years. Last year, Girls on a Mission chairperson Edith Waziri said at least two cases of cancer are reported daily with seven out of 10 women succumbing to cervical cancer annually.   -Edited by SKanyara