Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos is laying the ground to battle for the Senate seat with incumbent Kipchumba Murkomen. Tolgos will run on Jubilee ticket and has dared Murkomen to a fight in the August 9 general election. Joseph Marimoi will be running for the same seat as an independent but analysts say it will be a two-horse race between Tolgos and Murkomen. “Having served as governor, I believe the people of Elgeyo Marakwet will give me a chance to serve them at the next level as senator," Tolgos said. He met several groups of close allies and supporters to plan for campaigns. Tolgos, who is completing his second term, has said he would give Murkomen a run for his money, The governor is a close ally of Azimio flag bearer Raila Odinga. Murkomen is a close ally of DP Ruto and was given a direct ticket by UDA. He has not campaigned in the region yet or printed campaign material. His supporters say he will have an easy win against Tolgos. “Murkomen is my brother, my friend and my former classmate but I want to tell him that let's meet at the ballot", Tolgos told the Star. The two have been at loggerheads politically. Murkomen has accused the governor of poor performance while the governor frequently said Murkonen does not even understand his own county. “Some of us are now needed at the Senate to help strengthen devolution because some of those who have been there like Murkomen do not understand what happens in counties," Tolgos said. The governor said he is grateful to the people of Elgeyo Marakwet for trusting him and giving him the opportunity to serve them as governor for two consecutive terms. Tolgos said he was preparing his report card and development record. The governor said, "Having been a pioneer governor in the beginning of devolution, I have had first-hand experience and I understand the challenges counties go through that need Senate attention." Deputy President William Ruto is seeking the presidency on a UDA ticket; UDA is expected to dominate the region during the elections. Murkomen has largely concentrated on campaigning for DP Ruto but analysts say he will be forced to spent more time in Elgeyo Marawket because Tolgos is not a political lightweight. (Edited by V. Graham)