Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has pledged to address the issue of salary delays, if elected Mpmbasa governor in the August 9 polls. On Friday, Nassir met with the leadership of county health workers’ unions in a closed-door meeting to try and iron out the contentious issues. Mombasa has been witnessing workers’ strikes, especially in the health sector, which have been paralysing service delivery. During an engagement with leaders of the various labour unions, Nassir said the first challenge he will tackle is the salary delays, which is occasioned by delayed disbursement from the National Treasury. He is eyeing to take over from Governor Hassan Joho. "I have already negotiated with the leadership of a leading publicly owned bank that within 100 days in office, we will sign MoUs between the county and these banks to give our government a credit line that will allow us to always pay salaries on time," he said. Nassir said it will also cover statutory deductions such as National Hospital Insurance Fund and National Social Security Fund. He said it was shameful for a county government worker or their family members to be denied treatment because of non-remittance of NHIF. "A government is only as good as its workers. If we do not take care of our county government workers, then we cannot expect them to be motivated while serving the public," he said. Nassir also promised to establish a joint technical committee within his first 100 days, bringing together the department of Public Service management and the unions. The team will review the terms of employment, in terms of training and modalities of fully implementing any outstanding Collective Bargaining Agreement issues. He said his administration will set aside and ring-fence funds to continuously train and certify county government employees in their respective departments. "We do not expect someone who joined at the beginning of devolution in 2013 to be at exactly the same place today in 2022," Nassir said. Concerning pension, Nassir said his administration will take up the obligation to take care of county workers even after retirement. He said his administration will fully embrace the County Governments Retirement Scheme to ensure workers' funds are protected and paid out on time. "No retiree should have to pay a bribe to access the fruits of their labour," he said. Present at the meeting were leaders of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Union, the Kenya National Union of Nurses and the Kenya County Government Workers Union Mombasa chapter.  -Edited by SKanyara