Top officials of the State Department of Social Protection are on the spot for  suspicious payouts of millions of shillings to orphans and elderly persons. A new audit report shows the department transferred over Sh254 million to 7,577 deceased beneficiaries in the past four years. The monies were payments for the Inua Jamii cash programme, a key legacy project of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “This resulted in an unexplained payment of Sh254,702,000 for the period starting 2017 to June 30, 2021,” Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said in the report tabled in Parliament For years now, auditors have consistently raised queries of registering beneficiaries in more than one social assistance programme. The suspicious figures flagged by auditors are from a review of 68 constituencies out of the 290. This means there is a possibility the cases could be worse than highlighted. Gathungu said the audit test on the beneficiaries conducted in November 2021 revealed the payroll for payment was erroneous. The errors were noted in the databases of cash transfers to older persons (OP-CT), orphans and vulnerable children (CT-OVC), and persons with severe disability (PWSD-CT). Service providers—largely banks—have also been criticised, having earned up to Sh15 million in commissions charged on the irregular payments “to deceased beneficiaries whose basis has not been explained”. “In the circumstances, the propriety, accuracy and completeness of Sh269,984,120 utilised cash transfer for the year ended June 30, 2021 could not be ascertained,” Gathungu said. The audit further revealed the department is operating without a functioning internal audit section despite the huge amounts of cash it deals with. “During the year under review, no internal audit report was prepared and there was no proof of internal controls to detect and prevent errors,” the audit said. Gathungu said, “there was no assurance that appropriate institutional policies and procedures are followed.” “There was no evidence that the management’s decisions were backed by any evaluated adequate reliable information,” the report revealed. She also flagged instances of diversion of funds during the period to June 2021, singling out some Sh54 million that was diverted irregularly. “The money was used for payment to merchants and suppliers, the Kenya Revenue Authority and employees for the State Department without authorisation,” the audit said. At the same time, while orphans and elderly are suffering delayed remittances and millions remaining locked out, the audit revealed that the department was holding Sh462 million. “No explanation was provided as to why the amount of Sh461,622,844 was not transferred to beneficiaries,” Gathungu said. “Consequently, it was not possible to confirm that value for money was obtained from Sh461,622,844 transferred to the four holding bank accounts,” the report reads. The issue of millions of shillings for social protection being transferred to fake beneficiaries under unclear circumstances has been a cause of concern for auditors. Gathungu, in her June 2020 report, revealed that 12,188 beneficiaries were registered in two separate social programmes of which Sh266 million was paid out. At that time, the Social Protection department did not provide documentation to justify the beneficiaries. In 2018, an audit showed some deceased persons were disbursed Sh184,000, which management attributed to challenges of establishing proof life. The 2019 audit revealed some beneficiaries were enrolled into banks they had not applied for without their consent. The queries remain unresolved. The issues cast the spotlight on the workability of social protection programmes. ODM leader Raila Odinga has announced plans for a Sh6,000 monthly stipend for vulnerable Kenyans. Away from the questionable cash transfers, the audit showed the department has no titles for at 35 of its 36 parcels of land spread across the country. Gathungu says much as the state department has submitted documents to confirm that effort to acquire titles for the lands is in progress, risks abound. “In the absence of these legal documents, the ownership of the parcels of land and the accuracy of the reported valuation could not be ascertained,” she said.   -Edited by SKanyara