The Jubilee party has told all aspirants not to worry about the issue of zoning in the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition. The party, through its national chairman Nelson Dzuya, has encouraged all aspirants vying for different positions to continue with their campaigns and promised to support them in two weeks. He said the party had finalised strategies to assist all its aspirants with campaign materials and other resources. “We have told all our aspirants to concentrate on their campaigns, there is nothing like zoning.” Dzuya was speaking in Mombasa over the weekend during a meeting with the youth organised by the party’s Jomvu parliamentary seat aspirant Renson Thoya. Mombasa is considered an ODM stronghold, but Jubilee Party leadership encouraged their members to go for all elective seats. The party has 19 MCA aspirants out of the 30 wards in Mombasa. Five MP, woman representative and senate aspirant. The party did not field aspirant for the governor's seat. Dzuya said the party did a thorough background check of all its aspirants to ascertain their strength and influence before issuing them with certificates. Thoya, is expected to battle it out with MP Badi Twalib of ODM, who is going for his third term. “In Jomvu we will have Thoya, the rest will step down for him. As a party needs numbers in both the Senate and National Assembly,” he said. Dzuya also campaigned for the Azimio presidential aspirant Raila Odinga as he called for the inclusion of the youth in leadership. Thoya, who is currently the Mikindani MCA, was to face Twalib in the ODM nominations, but the party’s decision to issue the incumbent a direct ticket, forced him to defect to Jubilee. “They have underrated us and thought we are weak, but we are going to show them dust come August 9," Thoya said. “All we are calling for is a level playing field, I believe Jomvu people are going to make the right decision if given a chance." He further alleged there were police officers being misused by certain politicians to threaten and scare their opponents. “We respect the authorities, but we won’t allow a few officers to taint the name of the police. Let them know their days are numbered, it won’t be business as usual,” he said. He also called on the youth to shun political violence and instead be peace ambassadors. Nelson Akwaka, the Jubilee Mombasa secretary said they had already laid down structures from the county level to the polling centres in readiness for the polls. He said more than 3,500 officials would be deployed to ensure there are no hiccups during the elections. “Our aim as the ruling party is to get as many seats as we can for our leader President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Akwaka.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)