Africa Junior javelin champion Alexander Kiprotich says he will do everything to take his game to the next level after receiving the Paris 2024 Olympic Scholarships. Kiprotich said the scholarship opportunity will build his javelin skills even as he aims to make an appearance at the World Championships in Oregon in July this year. "I am quite grateful to Nock for granting me this scholarship opportunity. I had wanted to improve on my technique as far as javelin is concerned because this was my Achilles heel. By now, I could have been so far away in my technical aspects of javelin but for my technique in the throw," Kiprotich said. The Commonwealth Games thrower, who will be representing Kenya at the Senior African Athletics Championships in Reduit, Mauritius next month, said his aim with the scholarship is to take his game to another level. "I am quite optimistic that my career will go to the next level. Without proper technique, your career as a javelin thrower does not make sense even with the amount of energy you may have. There are some areas I have been hoping to work on and I am happy to have received this scholarship," he said. Kiprotich's latest fortunes come in the aftermath of a disappointing performance at the Kip Keino Classic where he finished seventh with an overall throw of 75.04m in the men's javelin. With the scholarship opportunity, he will be hoping to take his career to the next level. Others who have been awarded the scholarship include swimmer Danilo Rosafio, boxer Christine Ongare, table tennis player Brian Ndunda, wrestler  Mahabila Mathayo Matonya, triathlon champion Josette Umi Njeri, and Priscilla Mburu from sports shooting, among others. Speaking while dishing out the scholarships, Nock secretary general Francis Mutuku expressed optimism that the beneficiaries will be impactful in their local communities and worldwide. "The awards, therefore, mean that the IFs have confidence that the athletes have the potential to qualify for the Olympics if they put in the work. The scholarships were given based on exemplary performance in the past and present of an athlete and what the future towards the Olympic Games at a glance seems, "Mutuku said. Likewise, the second deputy president, Waithaka Kioni said the scholarships will not only benefit athletes but also talent development in the country in general. "We aim to place the athlete at the center of everything. This scholarship award to the eleven athletes will hopefully boost our qualification and performance as Team Kenya towards Paris 2024, "Waithaka said.