Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and Eldama-Ravine MP Moses Lessonet defy UDA and pledge to run as independents. UDA has said they would be disowned if they didn't return to the party and accept the nominations outcomes. The two lost during the UDA primaries on April 14 to  former governor Benjamin Cheboi who garnered 45,666 votes. Lessonet came second with 30,588 votes and Kiptis came third with 25,976 votes. they criticised the primary, saing it was marred with malpractices. “The UDA nomination was full of rigging. I only trust the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission announces it shall conduct free fair elections on August 9," Kiptis said. He spoke while naming his running mate, CPA Richard Koech on Saturday. Koech dropped his candidature on Chama Cha Mashinani to deputize Kiptis. Last Saturday, Cheboi picked Charles Kipng'ok his running mate and on Saturday Lessonet announced former retired Kenya School of Government director Isaac Chebon his deputy. The two — Kiptis and Lessonet — defied several ultimatums by UDA party to drop their independent bids and independent and support the party. On Friday, UDA’s presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua asked the two to support Cheboi and the party. "You have only until the end of this week, Friday or Saturday, to rethink your move or else the UDA party will permanently disown you" Gachagua said. Gachagua said UDA is pushing for uniformity among its members across the country as they push for Deputy President William Ruto to win on August 9. "Thereafter .we shall be sharing the national cake when we form the next government. We don't want to lock out any staunch supporters who opted out to recontest as independents.," he said. "So we urge them to quickly come back." Gachagua, who is also the Mathira MP, was addressing hundreds of residents who turned up for UDA's bottom-up forum in Kabarnet town, Baringo, on Thursday. A week ago, UDA principal Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi made the same appeal when he led the team on a prayer rally at Kabarnet Museum, Baringo, last Sunday. "Let's all be in one ship towards making DP Ruto become the 5th president of Kenya" Mudavadi said. He was accompanied by East Africa Legislative Assembly MP Florence Jematia, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah, Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Baringo senatorial aspirant William Cheptumo and Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie, among others. Murkomen lashed out on Kiptis, saying he must concede defeat after being beaten by Cheboi, the former governor. during the UDA nomination. "Kiptis should understand the same cane he used to lash Cheboi in 2017 is the used against him in 2022, it's game over," he said. Both governor  candidates picked running mates from one region, Baringo Central. So far a host of UDA aspirants in Baringo leaders have dropped their independent status to support the party. They include governor aspirant Professor Fred Segor, assembly speaker David Kiplagat Kipkerich, Senate aspirant Silas Tochim and Baringo North MP aspirant Reuben Chepsongol. On Saturday, Lessonet reacted, saying as independent candidates they will offer better support to ruto because the county is cosmopolitan. “Not all communities in Baringo will vote UDA but if we approach them as independents to vote Ruto, they will definitely listen,” he said. The county is inhabited mostly by the Pokot, Ilchamus and Tugen pastoral communities. According to the 2017 IEBC register, the county has at least 232, 258 registered voters in the six constituencies. Eldama Ravine leads with 54,742 voters, Baringo North (42,774), Baringo Central (38,388), Baringo South (35,162), Mogotio (32,276) and Tiaty (28, 916). (Edited by V. Graham)