Civil society has threatened to mobilise Kenyans for mass action and boycott of taxes if the government does not make public the standard gauge railway contracts. The Institute for Social Accountability and Okoa Mombasa on Monday said by refusing to publish the contracts, agreements and studies related to the construction and operation of the SGR,  the government is only raising suspicion that the deal was not above board. “Until now, we do not know what stops the government from making public these documents as ordered by the High Court on May 13,” Okoa Mombasa’s Khelef Khalifa said. He spoke at the Muhuri offices in Nyali alongside officials from InformAction and Tisa. Khalifa and Tisa national coordinator Wanjiru Gikonyo however said one way or the other, the contract will be made public. “Or else we will have to resort to public pressure to ensure the contract is released and even ask Kenyans that we shouldn’t pay taxes that go to pay hidden debts,” Gikonyo said. “If the contract is not available, it means it is not accountable. So why should we then pay heavy taxes to pay for what we do not know?” The High Court on May 13 ordered the government to release the contracts and agreements related to the SGR in response to a petition filed by Okoa Mombasa and Tisa in June 2021. The petition was filed after the government refused to respond to a series of Access To Information requests that Okoa Mombasa filed in 2019. Khalifa called on all Kenyans to raise their voices against such impunity saying the SGR is not a matter that affects Mombasa or Coast residents only. “The loans are being repaid by all taxpayers, not only those in Mombasa and the Coast. And if such impunity continues, we may find ourselves like Sri Lanka,” he said. The government, through the Attorney General Paul Kihara, said it intends to appeal the judgement by the High Court. However, Khalifa and Gikonyo, who addressed the press through zoom and later spoke to the Star on phone, said they are yet to be served with the notice of appeal. “There is some misinformation going out in the media about an appeal by government. Government has not appealed the court ruling and we hope they don’t because it’s a waste of taxpayers’ money,” Gikonyo said. She said it is easier and cheaper to make public the requested documents instead of appealing. “We imagine that in reviewing the contract, different government agencies advised the AG and so we don’t understand why it’s a top secret,” Gikonyo said. In 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to publish the contract between the government and the Chinese Exim Bank, which funded the project which cost Sh450 billion. Gikonyo said it is inexplicable that a development project has had such a negative socioeconomic impact on the residents yet government does not seem to care. She noted that all over the world, if a development project will lead to loss of jobs, as should have been seen through an Environmental Impact Assessment and feasibility study, government should make a counter plan. “Our suspicion is because of the corruption, they did not do a proper feasibility and that is why they do not want to release the terms of the contract,” Gikonyo said. Okoa Mombasa’s Victor Aduda said it is unfortunate that constitutional offices continue to make a mockery of the constitution by refusing to obey court orders. “If this money business goes on, we will find ourselves like Sri Lanka and we would not be able to hold individuals accountable,” he said. He said the country’s legal framework is good but the impunity with which state officers disobey court orders will lead to the jamming of these framework, leading to a non-functioning country. “The beauty of these frameworks is that there are warnings. We have seen these warnings for the last 10 years. It has to stop,” Aduda said. Khalifa said it is possible that some of the signatories to the contracts will go to jail should the contracts be made public and that is why they are protecting each other. “The good thing is they will not be in power forever. We will not relent. We will go for them till the end,” Khalifa said. He said  politicians have now made the SGR matter a campaign agenda, but said they are all liars.    -Edited by SKanyara