The Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji has called on Kenyans not to elect corrupt leaders in the coming August 9 general election. Speaking in Mombasa on Friday during the official launch of the Kisauni Social Justice Centre, Haji said some of Kenya’s problems are a result of bad leaders elected into power. “If you do not have good leadership, then you will not get the quality services that you need. Do not be fooled to elect leaders who will not bring any change,” said Haji. The DPP  also warned against handouts. “The money you are being given will not sustain you for a long time. What I’m saying is that you may take the money, but at the end of the day, vote wisely,” he said. The DPP said he does not support any political formation in the country. At the same time, Haji said the new social justice centre in Kisauni will help fight crime and insecurity in the Kisauni sub-county. “This area was very prone to crime activities about three years ago. The cases of insecurity were very high and we had to come in with the help of other organizations like Haki Africa and did some interventions,” he said. He said that some of the crimes that have been experienced in the area are organized crime, violent gangs, and issues of narcotics, extremism, and terrorism. “We are trying to reach out to the community and help them understand what our role is and also understand that they also have a right to access justice. We are also reaching out to them to let them know the negative effects of these crimes,” he said. The DPP said the idea of working with the community has allowed them to know what are some of the interventions they can put in place as ODPP and the government of Kenya in terms of fighting crime. The residents of Kisauni called upon the government to come up with lasting solutions to end the criminal cases in the region. Mohammed Hassan, a youth and resident of Kisauni urged the government to support the youth in exploring their talents as a way of bringing peace to the area. “Youths have talent but do not have support, we are calling upon the government to help us explore our talent which will help us quit the criminal life,” he said.