An image in form of a press statement showing USIU-Africa’s response regarding the validity of Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala’s degree is fake. The fake statement had stated that senator Malala never graduated from the United States International University and therefore does not hold any academic document from the institution. While flagging the statement as fake, USIU asked Kenyans to rely on communication posted on their verified social media handles. “Please note that all official communication from USIU-Africa is shared through USIU-Africa's official social media platforms. You are advised to ignore any untrue malicious rumors circulating online regarding the validity of our degree certificates,” the tweet read. The private university added that it is ready to provide the necessary details on the academic qualifications of the senator if an official request is made. “The respective vetting and regulatory authorities have access to this information and promptly receive the necessary validation details when requests for said validation are made through official university channels”. The fake statement emerged after a video of the lawmaker making public his academic records went viral. In a recent interview, Senator Malala was put to task to explain why his certificate read 2019 yet he claims to have graduated sometime between 2010 and 2011. In the interview with a local TV station, the vocal senator struggled to recall the exact date and year of his graduation, dismissing questions from the journalist who wanted clarity on the contradicting dates. “Ndio nakuambia kama hukufanya degree huwezi jua” Malala stated. This loosely translates to "If you didn’t graduate with a degree then these things may be difficult to follow." Malala who is vying for the Kakamega gubernatorial seat on a ANC party ticket in the August 9 polls, has been fighting allegations of forging his academic certificates. For one to qualify for the position of a county governor in Kenya, he or she must among others; be a holder of a degree from a University recognised in Kenya.