We all want to eat food we enjoy. But with the current economic situation, lifestyle diseases and our tight budget, our ability to balance our finances with healthier food options may be limited. Here is how you can eat healthy on a budget: Make homemade meals. Cook at home instead of buying healthy take-out or restaurant food. Remember, healthy food that someone else makes will always be more expensive than food you cook at home. Invest in a few good pieces of cookware and get healthy recipes online. You will save money on food by cooking more at home. Try meal prepping Since the onset of the pandemic, meal prepping has become our norm as it not only saves time but it also allows you to see how much you are actually eating. Try meal prepping for at least 3 days. This saves you the mental stress that comes every time you always want to cook something. You can use the weekend to meal prep food for the weekday. Shop at the local store Shopping for groceries at the supermarket can be quite a hustle especially if you are on a budget. Spare a day during the week to do your groceries at the local market. It not only saves you money but also gives you access to more organic produce. Prices are generally kept lower than market prices at the local Soko's because that is where retailers also get their produce. Save money by going meatless once in a while You can also try Meatless Mondays, or even have meat only on weekends. You will notice that eating less meat will save you money. Include more vegetables in your diet. Make a food timetable Have a weekly food timetable that you can switch up probably once or twice a week. This diversifies your diet and enables you to plan your meals accordingly. Meal planning can alleviate the stress of cooking and help you save time and money. Pack your food to work Packing your food to work gives you complete control over the foods you eat and can choose options with lots of beneficial nutrients. Do not over-rely on take-outs and eating out. That is where you lose your money. Avoid buying highly processed foods. Not only are they expensive, they often contain lots of sodium or sugar, with little to no nutritional value. Instead, make healthy snacks or stock up on healthy snacks like nuts and yogurt. With that in mind, good luck on your healthy journey.