The Makhabul subclan of Wajir South has formed a committee to arbitrate political grievances of aspirants in the August polls. The elders, who held a two-day meeting at a Garissa hotel, on Monday resolved to establish a dispute resolution working group of 39 eminent persons. The members will be drawn from the three subsections of the Makhabul clan, with each contributing eight people. Seven members of the Makhabul clerics and eight others drawn from the national council will be included. Elder Arale Hassan said the group is tasked with addressing and finding lasting solutions to the political issues within Makhabul and other clans in Wajir. It will also spearhead and promote unity among the clan ahead of polls. “This meeting resolves that all Makhabul politically aggrieved individuals and families should be reached out to and their grievances addressed amicably soonest. "We also want to affirm our joint cooperation with other political stakeholders in Wajir,” the elder said. He said the team will be fully constituted by May 14 and the inaugural meeting will be held on May 20. Wajir South is inhabited by the Ogaden community, which has four sub clans — Mohamed Zubeir, Makhabul, Bah Geri and Geri. In January, the Makhabul council of elders selected Mohamed Adow and Abdi Muhumed Abdi for Wajir South MP and Wajir deputy governor respectively. Abdi will deputise the gubernatorial aspirant,  Adam Hassan. However, days later Mohamed Kahiye and Khalif Abdi refused to step down for Adow. Adow, who will be vying on the ODM ticket said his entrance to politics is a sacrifice to improve the lives of residents in the expansive constituency. The former Aljazeera journalist said he delayed joining politics in 2013 and 2017 despite being under immense pressure from residents. However, several aspirants from the Makhabul subclan have been picked by different gubernatorial aspirants to deputise them. This has not only threatened to divide the votes of the populous subclan but also played into the hands of their rivals. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)