Kenya boys and girls under 14 teams are brimming with confidence ahead of the Africa Junior Championship slated for September in Egypt. Both teams qualified after winning their respective categories at the International Tennis Federation(ITF) East African tournament in Kigali, Rwanda early this month. Team captain Rosemary Owino is upbeat about the team's chances in Egypt. “ I believe both teams will have momentum during the Egypt tourney and will emerge top in their categories was outstanding. We are not resting on our laurels. We are going to work harder and we hope to win on the continental stage," she said. Team Kenya will be up against South Africa, Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco among others. Owino said they will not be unfazed by the competition but will, instead, be relishing the challenge of meeting their peers. “We are up to the task and the two teams will be going all out to do the country proud,” she said. The boys under 14 team beat Burundi 2-1 with Ayush Bhandari losing the opening singles match to Noel Igirineza 7-6, 6-2, 4-6 before Baraka Ominde bounced back to beat Jordi Gataka 6-3, 6-1. Ominde later teamed up with Brian Nyakundi to beat the Burundian duo 7-6(5), 6-3 In the girls' under-14 category, Kenya whitewashed Rwanda 3-0 to book their ticket with Seline Ahoya beating Eneza Therine 6-0, 6-0 and Stacy Yegorunning over Esther Tuyishime 6-0, 6-1. Melisa Mwakha and Yego made light work of Elizabeth Niyomuhoza and Eneza Therine 6-2, 6-2. The boys and girls under 16 teams finished second and third respectively during the championship. Elsewhere, Kenya's top-ranked player Angela Okutoyi has intensified her preparations for the French Open junior title which starts next week in Paris. The country's youngest Kenya Open champion has been training in Milan,  Italy. According to her coach Thuku Rogoi, she is working on improving her all-around game as she seeks to be competitive come the event. "She has a couple of days to work on her craft and ensure she is in peak condition by the time the tournament kicks off. Okutoyi had a solid run in the Australian Open in January, where she advanced to the third round.