Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Jubilee's Peter Kenneth and Martha Karua of Narc Kenya were last night shortlisted as potential running mates of Raila Odinga. The Azimio selection panel also shortlisted Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, Kanu’s Gideon Moi, Hassan Joho (ODM) and Stephen Tarus of National Liberal Party. The announcement was made on Friday by former Kwanza MP Noah Wekesa. Thirteen of the 20 who had applied for the coveted position were knocked out after it emerged they were submitted by non-Azimio political parties. Some of the big names that did not make the shortlist include Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, Governor Charity Ngilu of Kitui, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Lee Kinyanjui of Nakuru. “The committee of eminent persons that is mandated with the search for a suitable candidate to be the running mate for the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate received 20 applications for the invitation for expression of interest,” Wekesa said in a statement. “The rest 13 applications were not considered as they had not been submitted by the constituent political parties of the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance Coalition.” Azimio parties had been given up to Thursday to submit names of potential candidates. Gideon, whose party was the first to recommend Kalonzo, was a surprise inclusion in the shortlist. In a letter signed by Gideon, Kanu vouched for Kalonzo, saying he is the most suitable candidate to deputise Raila. “The Kenya African National Union proposes and submits the name of Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka as its preferred candidate for the position of deputy president in the forthcoming general election,” Gideon said. Hours later, another letter emerged signed by Kanu secretary general Nick Salat recommending the Baringo senator for the running mate position. Kanu disowned Salat's letter in its verified Twitter account. The panel will consider charisma, political experience, ability to mobilise, compatibility with the presidential candidate, regional balance as well as ethnic balance in arriving at the candidate.  