Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie has promised to push the bursary allocation per sublocation to Sh1 million next term if reelected. The bursary allocation is currently Sh800,000 per sublocation, up from Sh300,000 due to Kandie's efforts. “I want to set the highest record. It is my prayer and hope that by 2027, children in Baringo Central shall be handed bursaries of between Sh1.8 million and Sh2 million per sublocation," the MP said. He was speaking while issuing Sh38 million National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) bursary cheques at the constituency office in Kabarnet town on Monday. “Trust me, I will definitely fulfil my promise to increase the bursaries to one million next term, 2022-2027, it is possible because I know where I will get the money from,” Kandie said. The legislator said his personal concern is to ensure every child in his constituency, despite the fee challenges, access to basic education. He further said he will identify big sublocations and ensure they are given more funds to ensure every needy child gets money to complete their studies. The MP said he runs the politics of the 21st Century devoid of deceit. “I will always announce what I can deliver as a leader,” he said. Kenya Secondary Schools Head Teachers Association Baringo chairman Isaac Kibogong lauded Kandie for his plan to increase school bursaries, terming it historic. The Riwo Day Secondary School principal said 3,316 needy secondary school students have benefited NG-CDF bursary in the constituency. “Going forward, it is our appeal that the bursary goes beyond to sponsor bright students to pursue their careers both locally and internationally so we can get more engineers, lawyers and scientists,” Kibogong said. He urged parents to take their children to school, saying the best investment in life is educating the child. Baringo Technical College-Kapsoo principal Josphat Kipkemboi received Sh1.2 million to instal solar-powered warm bathing system at the institution. “Kandie has been so supportive to our college, he has donated more than Sh30 million worth of practical equipment in partnership with his pro-Kapsogo German friends,” Kipkemboi said. However, elder David Chesaro from Baringo Central expressed concern over the low childbirth in the constituency. “Despite the government offering to pay our children's school fees, there are few kids attending nursery schools due to low childbirth,” he said. But subcounty deputy commissioner Reuben Ratemo said mothers should go for contraceptives to control birth. “People must learn to bring to the world only children they are able to raise and educate,” he said. Ratemo praised MP Kandie for his concern with education, saying it is the only way to bring up the next productive generation. (Edited by V. Graham)