Kanu party leader Gideon Moi has vowed to support the ODM leader Raila Odinga-led Azimio coalition as he opts to defend his Baringo senate seat. Moi submitted his nomination papers to Independent Electoral Boundary Commission (IEBC) in Kabarnet town, Baringo on Monday. “Azimio is the way and we as the people of Baringo cannot afford to be locked out of government. We have to fight for it until we get in ‘ndani ndani, ndani’” he said in his brief speech. He said he has been already been cleared and handed a certificate adding he is now free to traverse the county to seek votes ahead of the August 9 general elections. “You know I am your son from the soil, I trust in you that you will cover me up to retain my seat,” the senator said. He cited employment of several youths on permanent and pensionable jobs like teaching, military forces and mobilized county tarmac roads worth over Sh1 billion as some of his accomplishments during his ten-year tenure. “I promise your children will not suffer in joblessness while I’m alive and in power. I have to fight for them” Moi said. Moi insisted “the cow is ours’ urging his Baringo central people to vote him in so as to promote regional balance. He meant the other seats like the Gubernatorial and Woman Representative seats may be taken over by the other sub-counties like Baringo North, Eldama-Ravine or Baringo South, so he will stand out as an elected leader from Baringo central. Gideon is now sharpening his daggers to wedge a tough battle on the ground against the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party nominee, William Cheptumo, who is the current Baringo North Member of Parliament (MP). Last week, Cheptumo said he doesn’t fear competing with Moi saying his track record is clear while he served in the legislature for three terms since 2007. “I have been tackling issues security, infrastructure, health and water and are evident on the ground,” he said. Furthermore, the senator will now have to tighten his belts to face tough campaigns as Cheptumo is expected to enjoy the full support of Deputy President William Ruto.