Lawyers Ahmednasir Abdullahi and Miguna Miguna have dismissed an order by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho directing the police to crack the whip on hired hooligans disrupting political rallies. The two took to their social media handles on Friday evening to weigh in on Kibicho's directive terming it illegal. Lawyer Ahmednasir said Kibicho has no legal mandate to direct the office of the Inspector general of police since it is an independent body. "In-Law, Kibicho has no power to direct the Inspector General or any police officer...in fact, Kibicho is Kenya's Inspector General!" Ahmednasir tweeted. Miguna, on the other hand, argued heckling is a political right to which every Kenyan is entitled. "Heckling is Free and Protected Speech. Constitutionally protected. We applaud Kenyans who have been robustly exercising their rights to free speech in Mount Kenya and other parts of the country. Don't stop. Don't fear. Don't be intimidated. Continue until August 9th," Miguna argued. Kibicho on Friday directed government administrators to work closely with other security agencies to stamp out the practice of hiring youth groups blamed for disrupting political gatherings. He said intelligence gathering had attributed to the hired groups the recent attempts to disrupt rallies in Kirinyaga County. “Kirinyaga is a peaceful county and our people are civilized and hospitable. We cannot allow a handful of hooligans to cause chaos here and taint the good reputation of our county,” he said. Kibicho blamed the incidences reported in the county on two area leaders who have reportedly enlisted youth to cause chaos in campaign meetings organized by rival contestants. The PS urged residents to exercise political tolerance by granting audiences to competing candidates and making informed choices in the August 9 polls. “Insults and sponsoring chaos are retrogressive and primitive practices, and Kirinyaga is beyond that. We must oppose leaders corrupting the minds of our young people using cheap liquor and bhang as a means to political glory.” He was reacting to recent events where some politicians' rallies were disrupted by suspected hired goons, especially in parts of Central Kenya. He spoke in Kirinyaga when he officially opened seven new administrative units recently gazetted.