DAP-K leader and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi on Monday was cleared to defend his seat in the August polls. He told journalists at IEBC office that he is prepared to face his rivals. “I'm prepared to battle it out with my opponents from other political parties. I will beat them hands down,” Wamunyinyi said. He said his record speaks for itself and urged those criticising him to tell Kanduyi voters what they will do for them. “I have done a lot and the voters can weigh who can serve them better,” he said. Wamunyinyi urged politicians to conduct peaceful campaigns. He also asked Bungoma residents to reelect Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, saying he has done a lot for the county and deserves a second term. Wamunyinyi cited the Wangamati scholarship programme, the dual carriageway, the 300-bed Bungoma County Referral Hospital, the cancer centre, water projects and Masinde Muliro stadium in Kanduyi as some of the notable projects initiated by the governor. The MP said if residents fail to reelect Wangamati, the projects might stall. The lawmaker said he has a big stake in the Azimio la Umoja coalition and if Raila Odinga wins the elections, he will use the chance to push for good things for Western region. Former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khang’ati also presented his papers for clearance to the IEBC. He was cleared to recapture the seat on the ODM ticket. While addressing IEBC offices on Tuesday, Khang’ati dismissed claims that he has dropped out of the race. He said he is firmly in the race and he is confident he will win. “Some of my opponents have been circulating propaganda on social media that I won’t be in the Kanduyi parliamentary race. I want to confirm to you today that I am in a race to battle with my rivals,” he said. Khang’ati urged Western residents to confirm their voting details with the IEBC. He appealed to the youth to reject politicians who want to misuse them during the electioneering period. The Kanduyi MP race has attracted three familiar political rivals who will be competing against each other in a rematch. They are Wamunyinyi, Khang'ati and lawyer John Makali of Ford Kenya. Makali was cleared to run by the IEBC on Sunday. Political observers say the Kanduyi parliamentary seat will attract a lot of interest as the constituency is the epicentre of Bungoma politics. The constituency hosts Bungoma town. "Kanduyi constituency politics shapes Bungoma county politics in general. It is where it all begins," political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche said last week. Edited by A.N