Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka on Tuesday hinted at a plot to lock him out of Raila Odinga’s running mate race. The Wiper leader said there was a cabal within the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance that wanted to take advantage of his no-show to knock him out of the Azimio running mate contest. Kalonzo said his decision to appear before the seven-member panel chaired by former Kwanza MP Noah Wekesa was deliberate. This, he said, was to avoid falling into the trap of his detractors working round the clock to defeat the Raila-Kalonzo ticket. The Wiper camp has been flatly opposed to subjecting Kalonzo to an interview, claiming it amounted to public humiliation of a man who has served the country in different capacities. He served as a vice president, Cabinet minister and has twice been Raila’s running mate. However, on Tuesday the Wiper boss ate a humble pie and presented himself to the panel in a two-hour engagement that he later described as a useful conversation with some of the most respected members of the clergy. Speaking to journalists after the session, the Wiper leader said he was not coerced to appear before the seven-member bench. “I decided to come because I realised we didn't want to give anybody an excuse whatsoever to say I did not want to come,” Kalonzo said. “It was a very useful two hours conversation with the panellist led by Noah Wekesa. It was not an interview.” Kalonzo said the committee has great and experienced men like Bishop Njenga and Bishop Zacheus Okoth. “I looked at that in my own right and say why would I not want to go and meet Bishop Okoth at his age?  I had to take that decision,” the Wiper boss said. Kalonzo’s candidature was endorsed by the Wiper Party and Gideon Moi’s Kanu. The panel also interviewed former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, ex Emgwen MP Stephen Karus, Narc leader Charity Ngilu and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. The selection team is expected to submit three top three to Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga who will then pick one of the suggested names to be his running mate. Kenneth said he is the best fit to be Raila's running mate saying he has had a long journey with Raila since the historic handshake of March 2018. The former presidential candidate from Kenyatta’s backyard said the vote-rich Mt Kenya should be taken into consideration when the committee settles down to compile its report. “My support for Raila is passionate. Of all the candidates, I have walked long enough with him. I have confidence in the Azimio team because we must alleviate poverty in this country,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris