The National Defence University-Kenya (NDU-K) has named the first three senior managerial staff members in a ceremony held at the International Peace Support Training Centre (IPSTC) in Karen, Nairobi. Vice-Chancellor Lieutenant General Jonah Mwangi issued the letters of appointment to the successful candidates marking a step forward in mobilising their operations. The momentous occasion saw Professor Ann Muigai, Dr Stephen Nzioki and Ms Miriam Nginga emerge successful in securing the positions of Deputy Vice-Chancellor Academic Affairs and Research, University Registrar and the Director of Finance and Accounts, respectively. Lt Gen Mwangi congratulated the successful appointees and cited their respective appointments as historic because they marked another milestone in the development of NDU-K. “With the coming in of the three distinguished appointees, we now have additional staff that will aid in elevating the University to greater heights and, the challenges that come with it. Though the tasks ahead are many, I have no doubt in your abilities and the wealth of experience that you bring to the institution,” he noted. He also said that the entire team at NDU-K had the task of planning for the enormous task of projecting the University, nationally and internationally. He reassured them of his enduring support and commitment to the delivery of quality university education.NDU-K, whose seat is in Lanet, Nakuru, was established on May 27, 2021, under Section 24 of the Universities Education Act, 2012 to offer specialised certificates, diplomas and degrees in areas related to defence and security, as well as other dimensions of security. Section 24 of the Universities Act, 2012 authorises an entity to seek the special status of a degree conferring institution if its uniqueness is of strategic national importance. Thus, having met the threshold set out in the law, NDU-K was gazetted on June 4, 2021, as the first university of its kind in Kenya, established as a centre of excellence in training, education, and research in national security and strategy.