Family members of Jackson Kibor want to end disputes over his vast estate amicably following the release of his will. Family members, including 26 children and three wives, have said they will engage in dialogue using elders and the church to resolve the disputes. Three of the siblings have died but their families were represented when the family met. His eldest son, Phillip Kibor, said he would try his best to ensure they avoid wrangles that have exposed the family for many years. "We know it's not easy because Mzee had a big family and a lot of assets but with time and as per details in the will, we will end the disputes," he said. Phillip said elders and church leaders are already helping guide the family. Last Friday, Mzee Kibor's will was read out to the family in Eldoret under tight police security. Some family members feared that the event could be disrupted and decided to call in the police. The will was read by lawyer Wilson Kalya. After the reading of the will, Phillip addressed the media in the company of his brother Reuben Kibor. Reuben is the son of Kibor's youngest wife Yunita. Phillip said the family had largely agreed with the details of the will, which Mzee Kibor wrote in February last year. Details of the will include how Mzee Kibor shared out his more than 5,000 acres, real estate and other moveable assets. Phillip said lawyer Amos Bundotich had been identified as the executor of the will. Phillip said Kibor had included 26 children in the will and in one unique case he directly gave out some of his assets to one of his grandchildren. The grandchild is Phillip's son. Before he died, Kibor had indicated that he would give each of his sons 200 acres along with other assets. His daughters were to each get 100 acres along with other assets. He also said they would get other moveable assets, including tractors and cars. Phillip said the will largely detailed what Mzee Kibor had said at a family meeting a few months before he died. "In the will, some got land in the rural areas but lost out on real estate in towns and vice versa. Those who are dissatisfied with the will still have the opportunity to go to court or use the elders to complain." However, Phillip said they would still sit down as a family and iron out any problems that may arise from the will. Yunita had last week complained that some family members had taken away property given to her, but Phillip said the matter had been addressed in the will. Kibor died on March 16 this year at the age of 88. He was buried on April 1 at his Kabenes home in Uasin Gishu. His vast estate, especially land, is located in North Rift counties. He also owned commercial buildings in several towns. Phillip said they would identify some of the properties that may not have been included in the will. Three other people had gone to court seeking to be recognised as Kibor's children and Phillip said two of them had been included in the will.