Stop Kerio Valley bandit attacks was the message ringing in the ears of Deputy President William Ruto's allies campaigning in the North Rift. Running mate Rigathi Gachagua, several governors and UDA nominees  criss-crossed the region in Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu and Nandi. They called for higher turnout and said Ruto was committed to ending banditry, uplifting the region in development and helping farmers. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu and his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang were in the campaign team. “Only under DP Ruto and Kenya Kwanza can challenges, including insecurity in Kerio Valley,  be addressed," Murkomen said. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government had deliberately ignored the plight of residents of the Kerio Valley where bandits kill innocent people every week. “Kenya Kwanza is committed to work with leaders and residents of the Kerio Valley region to end insecurity problem once and for all," Murkomen said. Mandago said the Kwanza team would reduce the prices of farm inputs, especially fertiliser. He also said they would prioritise investment in agriculture to raise returns and ensure the country is food-secure. Mandago said despite the region being the country’s breadbasket, farmers continue to suffer due to challenges that government can easily tackle. He asked voters to support all elected leaders under UDA, giving the party more members in Parliament so they can improve the economy with the bottom-up model. The UDA leaders and nominees intensified attacks on independent candidates. Mandago said they would rally voters to thwart all independent candidates whom he called sell-outs used to undercut DP Ruto. “We need a Parliament and Senate that can easily support policies and legislation the Kenya Kwanza government needs to put in place for you," Mandago said. The region has many independents vying for various seats and most complain that the UDA primaries had been rigged to favour certain individuals. Ruto, who was at Langas in Eldoret last week, also campaigned against the independent, urging residents to back him and UDA nominees. (Edited by V. Graham)