A total of 64 matches are on the cards in the men's Kenya Volleyball Federation  League starting today at the Nyayo Stadium. The four-day competition doubles up as the fifth leg with each team expected to play four matches. Defending champions  General Service Unit will take on Nyanza Prisons, Western Prisons, Equity, and Prisons Kenya. Leaders Kenya Ports Authority have a date with Mombasa Prisons, Kenya Defence Forces, Vihiga and Rift Valley Prisons. KPA lead the 16-team  standings with 16 points from six matches. The coastal side boast of International experience having recently returned from the Africa Club Championship in Tunisia, where they finished fifth in a second consecutive appearance. The David Lung'aho-led Prisons Kenya will also play Vihiga, Rift Valley Prisons, and Kenya Forest Service as Vihiga entertain Administration Police, KPA, and Kenya Army. Newbies Trail Blazers have the opportunity to climb up the table with a relatively easier run. The Geoffrey Omondi-tutored side face Prison Central, Nyanza Prisons, Nairobi Prisons, and Mombasa Prisons. Equity, who finished 10th in the African tourney, will savour their chances against Rift Valley Prisons, KFS, GSU and Western Prisons. Highly-rated KFS hope to overcome pressure from Western Prisons, Equity, Prisons Kenya and AP. Prison Central, who gave the fourth leg a wide berth, are up against Blazers, Nairobi Prisons, Mombasa Prisons and KDF. Nairobi Prisons will settle scores with Kenya Army, Prison Central, Blazers and Nyanza Prisons. Kenya Army should redeem themselves against Nairobi Prisons, Mombasa Prisons, KDF and Vihiga. Mombasa Prisons who have blown hot and cold lock horns with KPA, Kenya Army, Prisons Central and Blazers as KDF Square it out with AP, KPA, Kenya Army and Prison Central. AP also play Vihiga, RVP and KFS. As RVP prepare to scalp Equity, Prisons Kenya and KPA, Western Prisons face arduous task against KFS, GSU, Nyanza Prisons and Equity. Nyanza Prisons could find the going getting tougher with GSU, Trail Blazers, Western Prisons and Nairobi Prisons lie in waiting.