After almost a month's lull since the conclusion of the ARC Equator Rally,  the FIA Rally Star quartet of Maxine Wahome, Jeremy Wahome, McRae Kimathi, and Hamza Anwar can’t wait to debut the continent's biggest racing crowd-puller—the Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally. The Kampala-based event will be a journey into the unknown for the four youngsters who really don't know what to expect apart from the big crowds that are traditionally associated with the event organized by the Federation of Motorsport Clubs of Uganda. The Pearl of Africa Uganda Rally is scheduled for May 6-8 in the districts of Mukono and Bukwe and will count towards the third round of the FIA African Rally Championship. McRae Kimathi, who is Kenya's contender for the FIA Junior WRC and  FIA WRC3, will pilot the M-Sport Poland Ford Fiesta Rally3 car which is three steps below the World Rally hybrid car (Rally 1). Jeremy will also drive the other Rally3 Fiesta hoping to replicate his ARC Equator Rally form, where he finished fourth. During the Equator, Jeremy checked out of the Naivasha Service stage early and the mistake cost him a career-best second position. Maxine, who is the leading lady driver in Kenya at the moment, will make her first appearance in the Premier Uganda fixture in a Subaru Impreza while Hamza will drive a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X. Hamza is anticipated to return to the bucket seat of his Rally 3 Ford Fiesta just before WRC Safari Rally if all goes well. He rolled his Rally 3 machine during the ARC Rally of Tanzania in 2021  and the car has had to undergo a strip rebuild in Nairobi to repair the damage. In an interview, McRae said: “I don’t know so much about the stages in Uganda. I have no clue what they will look like because it will be my first time there, but I will surely strategise accordingly with my navigator (Mwangi Kioni) after recce." He said he will seek to give the local boys a run for their money and try not to disappoint his huge fan base in Uganda. Jeremy, a product of the Kenya National Karting Championship as well as Formula 4 and 3 in Europe and Asia, said: “The essence is to carry on the momentum from Equator Rally and perform well. Whenever a rally is new, it's always a tricky affair. I’m sure it’s going to be a challenge, because of the huge turnout of fans on the roads but it’s one event I’m looking forward to." Hamza was all smiles ahead of the event. He said: “I know the Pearl is a great platform for any aspiring young driver, so I’m looking forward to seeing it. The FIA Rally Star program definitely  given us the opportunity to experience diverse conditions across Africa and improve on our driving capability. Uganda has always been my favourite." "I attended the event in 2007 when I was a kid to cheer on my dad (Asad Anwar). Dad's still speaks highly of the event and the crazy fans. So we are looking forward to the craziness,” said Hamza who rejoined this year's Equator Rally on the Super Rally rule and won the penultimate stage at Kedong last month. A total of 49 drivers have entered the event that has attracted 10 foreigners including Kenya's leader Karan Patel, physically challenged driver Nikhil Sachania, ARC leader Leroy Gomes of Zambia, and Rwandese speedster Giancarlo Davite. The 39 local drivers include three times Uganda Champion Ronald Ssebuguzi, former Pearl winners Hassan Alwi and Ponsiano Lwakataka, Dr. Ahmed Ashraf, and Yasin Nasser of MOIL Rally Team. The Pearl is the third event this year in the continental series after Rallye Bandama of Ivory Coast and Kenya's Equator Rally.