Former TV news anchor Mwanaisha Chidzuga and her brother Hassan Fundi Chidzuga have vowed to inherit and continue with their mother's legacy in Kwale. Zainab Kalekye Chidzuga served as the Kwale Woman Representative before she succumbed to Covid-19 on August 12 last year. Hassan, 40, who is vying for the Matuga MP seat, has promised to improve the matatu sector and the lives of touts, once elected into office in the August polls. He is seeking to unseat the current MP Kasim Sawa Tandaza  on a Jubilee Party ticket. Hassan will battle it out with his sister, Mwanaisha, who is vying on a UDA ticket. Speaking in Golini while officially launching his campaign bid and receiving blessings from the Kaya elders,  Hassan said for a long time the matatu sector has been ignored. He said touts are continuing to suffer, despite playing a crucial role in the transport system. "Someone might spend a whole day just to earn Sh50 yet there is so much that can be done to make them productive," he said. Hassan said he will ensure the matatu sector youth are empowered to improve lives and living standards. The Matuga parliamentary hopeful said he will devise new income-generating activities to assist those who operate in shifts to stabilise their income. He said majority of the touts depend on colleagues because they don't have specific vehicles hence struggling to get their daily bread. Hassan said he will enable them to join Saccos and form certified groups that will help in winning county tenders. He further said he aims at salvaging youth from engaging in criminal activities since the rate of unemployment is high. "When organised, it will be easy for them to be introduced to impactful projects like applying for tenders rather than having them seated idle because results could be catastrophic," he said. Hassan said he will promote better education for Matuga children and provide equal employment opportunities for all. He said schools are lacking learning materials and are understaffed, a trend he wishes to reverse. Hassan said youth are unable to proceed because of drugs since there are no enough jobs. He said he will improve infrastructural development in Matuga. He said despite hosting a majority of county offices and having a lot of resources, the subcounty is still languishing in poverty. The aspirant blamed poor leadership for underdevelopment in Matuga. "This area has the potential for great socio-economic development but there are no proper strategies to tap the opportunities," he said. Hassan said he will also refine the health sector by working closely with Kwale county. Last year, Chidzuga's family endorsed Mwanaisha but Hassan maintains he has the support of most of the siblings and elders, saying he is the only preferred candidate who can unseat Tandaza. Kwale ODM chairman Hassan Mwanyoha and former Sports executive Ramadhan Masudi Bungale have also thrown their hats in the ring. Mwanaisha, however, said she won't drop her bid, saying she carries a great responsibility and won't let the people down. "I would like to thank the elders and family for their support in filling in the gap left by our mother. I have accepted and I promise to meet their expectations once I get elected," she said. She promised to empower youth and women in leadership roles and business opportunities as well as employment. Bungale also seeks to ensure that Matuga people are well represented in the national development. "Matuga lacks proper representations and the laws we have do not effectively favour our people in terms of addressing the challenges affecting us," he said. He said he wants to perform the oversight work and present policies that will resuscitate the economy of the Matuga as well as fight for equal resources. Bungale said the constituency had lagged behind because of lack of poor leadership. "If we look at Matuga, majority of the roads are in a bad state, but with a determined MP that can change," he said. He promised to present vital discussions at the national level to help revive the cashew nut and coconut sectors that are key factors to the region's economy. Bungale said he will utilise the CDF funds to promote education and bring massive development. He further said he will work closely with the community to fast track economic growth by coming up with meaningful projects that are designed to create employment opportunities for the jobless youth. Bungale said he is the right person for the parliamentary job because of the experiences he amassed as a county executive, coast regional CDF coordinator and Kwale accounts manager. The Matuga aspirant said he has great development ideas that are focused on empowering and improving the living standards of the common citizens. He will vie on United Democratic Movement ticket. Tandaza, who is the Matuga MP, said he wants to improve education through bursary and sponsorship programmes, adding that he will provide conducive learning environment and materials to students to boost performance. He further said he will improve better health services by enrolling poor residents to the National Health Insurance Fund. The lawmaker is vying on Amani National Congress ticket.  (edited by Amol Awuor)