Hit Squad head coach, Benjamin Musa, says he is keeping his fingers crossed in the hope that the National Olympics Committee of Kenya (NOCK) will set aside enough slots for boxers in the Kenyan contingent for the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. Speaking exclusively to The Star moments before a meeting with  Olympics Committee at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Monday, Musa said the criterion he will employ to identify his final team will purely be pegged on the number of slots provided. The seasoned gaffer spoke exactly a day after arriving from Turkey where he guided a team of 10 Kenyan female pugilists to the International Boxing Association (IBA) World Women's Boxing Championships. “We arrived on Sunday but there isn't enough time for us to rest. I'm already here at Kasarani to negotiate enough slots for the Hit Squad in the Kenyan team for the Commonwealth Games,” Musa said. “I'm crossing my fingers in anticipation for some positive news, given my options might be limited if NOCK decides to give us only a few slots,” Musa said. “In case our options are restricted, we will use experience and recent history in the ring to identify our team for the games." On Hit Squad's performance in Turkey, Musa placed the team's unimpressive show at the feet of ill preparations. He nonetheless extolled the boxers for putting up a gallant fight characterized by firepower despite returning home empty-handed. All the ten Kenyan boxers stumbled out in the preliminary rounds of the competition after being outpointed by their more refined and adept opponents. “There is a marked improvement in our performance if you consider how we did things in the past. At least our boxers have the gas to persevere through the entire bout, unlike in the past when most of them could be knocked out in round one,” Musa said. Musa reiterated the urgent need to expose the team more often, pointing out that competitions at that level ultimately boiled down to experience. “We need to invest heavily if we intend to start harvesting medals in such high profile events. Nothing is achieved in a vacuum. Take the example of Mozambique. They are now reaping handsomely after giving their boxers adequate exposure on the international stage. “We thank the government for their continued support including funding our trips to international assignments. However, there is need for our boxers to participate in more invitational tournaments before major continental and global events,” Musa said.