Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has promised full support for his successor to ensure smooth transition to take the county to the next level. To ensure continuity of projects he has initiated, the governor said, he has put in place structures to ensure that. “Residents of Elgeyo Marakwet should rest assured we will have a smooth transition and we have structures in place that will ensure continuity." He spoke in Iten town on Saturday when he wished luck the second batch of students heading to Europe for study missions and to search for job opportunities. The battle to succeed Tolgos is largely a two-horse race between his deputy Wesley Rotich who won the UDA primaries and National Vision Party party leader Athony Chelimo. Tolgos will be vying for the Senate seat against incumbent Senator Kipchumba Murkomen who is a close ally of DP William Ruto. Tolgos presented letters of acceptance to the students during a farewell party  at the governor's square in Iten in the presence of their parents and county officials. This was the second time governor Tolgos' administration sent students overseas  after the first cohort of 25 students left Kenya in December 2020. The second group of 100 students sent off by Tolgos on Saturday includes 25 heading to Helsinki, while others are expected to join Tampere University and Tredu University, both in Finland. Governor Tolgos congratulated the second cohort for securing the opportunities to travel overseas. The county chief said the aim of the programme is not only to enable students to gain education but also help them explore job opportunities in the international market. "This investment you have made is a life-time opportunity. It is definitely a game changer in the lives of the students," Tolgos said. Out of the second cohort, 16 will be going to Helsinki to take a three-and-a-half-year nursing course. Twenty-five students will take a Practical Nursing Course (diploma), taking two academic years at Tampere University of Applied Sciences. Another 50 Students will be heading to Tredu University to study practical nursing. Tolgos encouraged the students to ensure they learn the Finnish language, saying it would unlock many opportunities. The event was also attended by Nandi county executive for Education and Technical Training Peris Sugut and her chief officer Scholastica Tuei. (Edited by V. Graham)