Kariobangi Sharks mercurial forward, Felix Oluoch, has suffered a major setback in his quest for the Kenyan Premier League Golden Boot gong after sustaining a career-threatening injury. Oluoch, who has already found the back of the net 12 times this season, collected a lateral ankle ligament sprain in their barren draw against record champions Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium last weekend. The club confirmed on their official Facebook page on Wednesday that the forward will be out in the cold for 21 days. The on-form striker has been wolfing down goals in the Kenyan Premier League like nobody's business. During an exclusive interview with the Star in November last year, the bubbly youngster with an infectious smile didn't shy away from laying bare his season's objectives. “My target is to net at least 17 goals this season and, possibly, emerge at the summit of the top scorers' chart,” he said. “However, I'm aiming for 10 goals in the first half of the season. That will make my work quite easier going forward,” he added. Part of his lofty targets for the season is to don the national team colours too. “Hopefully, a good run in the league will secure me a slot in the national team. It has always been my dream to fly the country's flag on the international stage," he revealed. Besides setting an individual target, Oluoch also says he is keen to fire Sharks to the elusive maiden top-flight title. "I would feel greatly elated if we went ahead and won the league this season. We have set a good pace and we are in a good position in the standings. I hope we shall maintain the momentum up to the end of the season,” said Oluoch thoughtfully. The Eastlands-based team currently place sixth on the log with 45 points, 11 adrift of leaders, Kakamega Homeboyz. Oluoch attributes their superb run to teamwork and their current status as a surprise package. “The fact that we are an entirely new squad works to our advantage given our opponents still can't figure out how to approach us. They've seen few of us in action in the past and that makes it difficult to plan when they come up against us,” said Oluoch. Oluoch revealed he borrows heavily from the 2020/2021 KPL season's Most Valuable Player Eric Kapaito whom he looks up to for inspiration. “I happened to spend a lot of time with Erick Kapaito before he travelled to Ethiopia for a professional stint with Arba Minch City on a two-year contract. Kapaito has mentored me a great deal. I also watch videos capturing his past performances with Kariobangi sharks and that has made me learn quite a lot,” said Oluoch. Editing by Tony Mballa