Meru women leaders have castigated police over harassment, threats and inequality in protecting them compared to their male counterparts. North Imenti MP aspirant Beatrice Karwitha said she is a victim of intimidation and being thrown out of meetings by police officers. Karwitha spoke on behalf of the women seeking political seats at Simba Wells Hotel on Saturday. She said the same fate has befell the Meru Woman Rep Kawira Mwangaza who is vying for governor. “We don't need political goonism in Meru. Mwangaza has a right to campaign, like all other leaders. I was carjacked recently. I plead with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and PS Karanja Kibicho to intervene. We do not anticipate for a worse scenario. "During a Prayer day at Gitoro, I was threatened. It was a bad show. I condemn police for not being neutral. Why do they interfere, harass and even chase some of us from campaign meetings. Mwangaza was chased from Mitunguu by an irresponsible DCC last week,” Karwitha said. Meru county commissioner Fred Ndunga however disputed the claims saying every person must do their work with respect. He said once a politician is cautioned against continuing with a meeting at a particular venue, they must obey. Karwitha said if it is not booing, stone throwing, it is being shut down by drank youths paid handouts for any woman aspirants. “I urge our youths to stop being misused. Police must provide security to all aspirants from MCAs to the president. We know our rights. We demand equal campaign space," she said. Ndunga said any politician who goes against the law will see the seat on Viusasa. He said politicians should exercise caution, preach peace and restrain  supporters from shouting down other leaders. “If they feel their policies vary, they should stop attending their meeting. Why would you destroy Meru because of politics? “We will use all available means to combat any insecurity. We know of politicians with gangs. If they cause chaos. They will be state guests,” Ndunga said. Since independence Meru has had only one Woman MP who did not serve for a whole term. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)