Gloves are off, battle lines are already drawn. Political leaders across the divide are rolling their sleeves as the scramble for 2.5 million Western votes kicks off in earnest. The two leading presidential candidates, according to opinion polls, ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto have intensified campaigns in the region in a bid to bag a majority of the votes. The region has over 2.5 votes starting with Kakamega having the largest share of votes at 841,139, followed by Bungoma's 644,233, Busia 406,569, Trans Nzoia County 395,741 votes and Vihiga (304, 765). Raila who is currently in the region for five-day tour is looking forward to countering and neutralising DP Ruto's perceived growing influence in the region. The ODM leader has been enjoying the massive support of the  Western bloc in the last three consecutive elections. The chief Opposition leader started his campaign in Vihiga County where he did a series of campaign rallies in Hamisi, Sabatia, Vihiga, Emuhaya and Luanda Sub-county. He urged the locals to rally behind him in the August 9 general election. Ruto on the other hand is banking on the support of the ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula in winning the support of the Western region. Ruto has pledged to give the duo 30 per cent of government if they deliver 70 per cent of Western Kenya votes. “We won’t deliver 70 per cent. We shall bring 90 per cent so that people will know that Odinga wasn’t campaigning on space we were the force behind him,” Mudavadi said. “Wait on August 9th and you will know that Odinga has been enjoying our support here in Western,” he added. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula are in Western to neutralize Odinga’s efforts to consolidate Western votes. While Countering the Kenya Kwanza alliance, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya urged the duo to quit Kenya kwanza and join Azimio la Umoja. Oparanya said that in Azimio, they have not been conditioned by Odinga like in Kenya Kwanza where they have to meet the 70 per cent for a deal to sail through. “Am just urging my brothers to come back to Azimio because those conditions on the table they can’t meet them at any cost,” Oparanya said. Raila is set to tour Busia, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia where he will drum up his presidential bid. “We have always voted for Baba and this time we are sure we must clinch this seat. Let’s not waste our chances,” Marende said. “If there has ever been the best government that has served Kenyans was 2007-2013 when I was the Speaker,” he added. While in Vihiga, Nominated MP Godfrey Ososti said Kenya Kwanza is a passing cloud that has no power to stand before Odinga. “We are behind Baba and we shall ensure he has the total support in the area, and we shall be part of his government without conditions,” he said. He said the condition set by DP Ruto was a plot to ignore Mudavadi and Wetang’ula if he wins the election. Leaders who accompanied Raila include ODM chairman John Mbadi, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Governor Wilber Ottichilo, Peter Anyang’nyong’ Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and Senator George Khaniri, and former Speaker Kenneth Marende among other leaders.