Kericho quartet Erick Mutai, Julius Rono, Patrick Cheruiyot, and Patrick Langat landed an all-expenses-paid trip to visit and play at the iconic Gleneagles Golf Course in Scotland after emerging 2022 Johnnie Walker Golf Series champions. The quartet posted a remarkable 111 joint points to floor a strong field of 100 top amateur golfers from across the country who participated in the Series’ Grand Finale that was held yesterday at the par-72 Karen Country Club. The team fended off the challenge from Nakuru Golf Club’s team of Kuljit Sahota, Wahu Nyairo, Sajil Shah and Rahul Mesuria who came in second after scoring 110 points. Coming in third was Nyanza Club’s team of Griffins Owino, Julius Omollo, David Omollo and Elizabeth who returned a score of 108 points, beating VetLab Sports Club’s team of Priscilla Karobia, Esther Chumo, Cleopas Bor and Mark Karobia on countback who had scored similar points. On to individual categories, Shadrack Ng’etich and Rose Mambo were the stars in the longest drive challenge in the men and ladies categories respectively, while Anthony Mulinge clinched the Nearest to the Pin prize. Meanwhile, Racheal Ndei posted 41 points to win the Guest Prize, beating second-placed Louisa Gitau who scored 38 points. Speaking during the tournament, KBL Managing Director John Musunga noted that the company had achieved its objectives. “Today’s event marks an incredibly proud moment for all of us at KBL as it is a culmination of a journey that we started in November last year when we commenced this Series. "That series has been one of the most exciting and challenging tournaments. "We saw some incredible golfers participating, and there were some very tough competitors out there and tough courses which made this a very special tournament,” said Musunga. The Series, which kicked off in November 2021, has seen over 3,000 golfers participating across 18 golf clubs in the country. The qualifying events were held at VetLab Sports Club, Thika Greens, Windsor, Nakuru, Kenya, Sigona, Eldoret, Kerich, Muthaiga, Thika, Nyali, Limuru, Karen, Nanyuki, Kiambu, Kakamega, Royal Nairobi, and Nyanza.