A multi-stakeholders forum will meet in Siaya on Wednesday to discuss the state of human rights and insecurity in the county. The meeting comes in the wake of a spate of killings by an unknown gang and failure by the security team to apprehend and prosecute criminals. At least 13 people have been murdered in the last two years, while one is missing. In April, four people were killed by unknown people and nobody has been held accountable for their murders. Brian Ochieng’ Adhiambo, 19, was abducted on April 11 and found murdered on April 14 in Uranga trading center while Boncliffe Odhiambo, 20, from Pap Nyadiel in Alego was killed on April 16. Also, Joash Onyango Odhiambo, 18, from Segere in Alego was killed on April 29 and an unknown minor was also found murdered and dumped in Siaya town on April 28. Thirty-year-old Leonard Odhiambo went missing. He disappeared on January 18 at Uranga trading center, in the outskirts of Siaya town. Nearly all the families of victims who spoke to the Star blamed the police, saying that inquiries into the murder of their loved ones have not taken place properly. Such families are currently undergoing mental anguish with no-one to console them. Even so, they pray and hope that justice shall be found for their relatives someday. Failure by the state to dispense justice is the reason families of victims have invited Haki Africa and the United Nations Human Rights Advisor in Kenya to intervene. Haki Africa’s executive director Hussein Khalid and UN's senior human rights advisor Li Fung will lead the Wednesday forum. Haki Africa’s officer in-charge of Siaya Odhiambo Ojiro said the forum will include security chiefs, county religious council and Court Users Committee members. Also, social justice actors, families of victims, counsellors, members of the community and local human rights organisations will be involved Although the death of Victor Otieno Alaka, 29, of Ligala village in Sega, Ugenya constituency was as a result of a hit-and-run road accident, the family is still in grief. The deceased’s sister Victoria Emily Anyango took the Star to their home where we were welcomed by a huge piece of art on a wall, displaying Otieno’s picture. The words ‘RIP AVICKY SOHJAH’ were inscribed next to it. Emily said the deceased’s friend drew it as a way of remembering him. The place was deserted, her mother, who stays at home was not available. “I have just learnt that my mother has not been at home for the past few days. She went visiting a relative in Kano, Kisumu,” Emily said. Emily said sojourning at relatives’ homes has become her mother’s latest habit, for her son’s grave and drawing on the wall of his ‘simba’ (house) torments her. “Whenever she wakes up, the first image she sees is Victor’s. Whenever she moves to the backyard, there lies Victor’s grave. She is mentally disturbed and doesn't want to stay at home,” Emily said. The Wednesday meeting will be graced by counsellors who will talk to families of victims to help them heal from the traumatising losses. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)