Vihiga Queens coach Boniface Nyamunyamu has warned his charges against complacency after a 3-1 win over Zetech Sparks at Mumias Sports Complex on Saturday helped them seal their fourth Kenya Women's Premier title. The tactician believes they can still collect maximum points in their remaining matches against Kangemi Ladies, Wadadia, Bunyore and Thika Queens and finish the league unbeaten. "Players must carry on with the same energy that they started the season with. We will celebrate the title but we need to maintain maximum concentration until the last game." "Vihiga are unbeaten and we would like to preserve that record. It's a huge moment for the club especially after last season's heartbreak. Motivation is key." A first-half double from Topista Situma and Immaculate Wangira's second-half strike was all that the Legacy Makers needed to previal and stop Sparks' four match unbeaten run. Puren Alekwe' s strike was a consolation. Alekwe was making a comeback, having missed the past two matches against Kangemi and Thika due to family commitments. This is Vihiga's fourth title in five years. The Cecafa club champions got the job done with four matches to spare. Situma's double took her tally to 13 to remain on course for the golden boot while Alekwe's goal was her 12th with the race entering homestretch. Wangira has made a telling contribution after she was signed in the mid-season transfer window. The dynamic midfielder has played in three matches thus far according to Nyamunyamu and scored as many goals. Elsewhere, Christine Kadima's goal was all that Kayole Starlets needed to edge out Bunyore Starlets at Stima club, Nairobi. The win enabled the Joshua Sakwa tutored Kayole to move out of the red zone, with Bunyore dropping to the relegation dogfight. Kayole moved to ninth place in the 12- team league as Bunyore fell to 10th. There are bound to be changes at the bottom end of the table with more surprises expected as teams fight for their futures. Editing by Tony Mballa