In the absence of the media,the world is a big dark stage. While the media plays a critical role in informing the masses, the Kenyan media has taken a step at a time in emancipating itself from the shackles of dictatorial policies. Some of the changes range from liberalisation of the air waves to web spaces and subscription. Other changes include modernisation of equipment and freedom to form  groups that champion the rights of a free press. This is how the renowned veteran journalist Munene Kamau hails the gains which he describes as "a major milestone on a journey of a thousand miles." Unlike yesteryears when there was limited media equipment for use, today journalists are spoilt for choice in the selection of an array of equipment that have equally complemented a diversified modern media space. While he got into the career in 1984, Kamau says filing stories for the local dailies was a tedious and rigorous process that required endurance. "The equipment for use when I started was a telephone booth, where we read out loud our stories to the editor who on the other end in the newsroom typed our work.” "While reading out our pieces for the day, you had to shout because of network instabilities and for audibility purposes," he told the Star on Monday. "This format exposed much of the content that was due for publication, and which in most cases subjected us to imminent danger with politicians who had fallen out with the media.” Later, the introduction of manual typewriters and telefaxes  got the journalists off the streets and that provided a sigh of relief. Munene says he took it upon himself to purchase equipment like a typewriter, a still camera,a telefax and a video camera which he has since preserved  in his Gichugu-based home. While displaying his once-precious working equipment, the media veteran says some of them were rare to find, something that gave him the privilege to serve the entire Mt Kenya region. Besides the security of the equipment being at stake,the other major challenge was sending the  raw video and still photo tapes to the editor for use . Due to the unavailability of editing machines, he says journalists used to send raw footage through courier services and people, who in most cases, were unreliable. He recounts instances when they could be forced to send politicians to drop video and photo tapes containing their stories in some selected drop-off points in Nairobi. However, the politicians either forgot or deliberately refused to leave the tapes for collection by the editors. "I recall there were government officials who were notorious for that," Munene said. "Once you cover their events they would promise to drop the tape once they get back to Nairobi but they would end up confiscating them if they didn’t want their stories to run.” Unlike today when almost all events are consumed by the public due to a liberalised media space, Kamau says in the 1980s the Kenyan media was captured by those who called the shots. So bad was the situation, that some of the firebrand scribes like himself were humiliated and tortured in the deadly Nyayo chambers for two years. This is after he refused to bow to powerful politicians who felt displeased by the manner in which he exposed their rot through the media. Munene was detained without trial alongside other key figures, including former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. What he did not know, however, is that the harrowing experiences in the torture chambers would have dreadful impact in his health and career. “By the time of my release in 1988, I had paid the ultimate price for throwing myself into the struggle for a better Kenya," the veteran journalist said. "Besides losing my job during my productive age, my body was fractured and my dental formulas impaired by my oppressors. “I don’t think I will ever recover from the effect of that ghastly torture. I am 65 years old, but look older than my late father who died while I was still detained.” Irungu Mwangi, the Kirinyaga county head of information who is equally a veteran journalist, praises the gains made by the Kenyan media, saying greater things are yet to come. “Unlike in the past when you had to wait for two days for your stories to be published, it now takes a matter of minutes for your story to get to the audience due to the creation of the websites by the media houses.” Wainaina Kiarie, a budding TV reporter, says he enjoys his journalist work, thanks to the modern equipment his employer has provided him with. He says with the availability of portable live streaming equipment, the audience can catch live events on their TV screens without necessarily waiting for 7pm or 9 pm news. “While I broadcast the event live, the editors on the other end can get the raw footage, edit and use it on air at their own convenience,” he says. “Besides, the modified gadgets have simplified live streaming unlike some years back when we required an OB van for all live events.” He says the modern cameras are equally light and easy to use while their memory cards are easily erasable thus can be used over and over unlike the video tapes whose content can never be erased.  (edited by Amol Awuor)