Makueni MP Dan Maanzo on Wednesday dismissed claims he has been blocking Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka from going back to Raila Odinga's Azimio. Speaking in an interview with NTV, Maanzo said he was only advising Kalonzo and putting the people's best interests first. "Kalonzo was the biggest cornerstone of Raila's success as a presidential candidate and the moment the builders removed him, the coalition began tumbling," he said. He added that Kalonzo's move to decamp was not a plot to spoil Raila's votes and said Kenyans need a third political alternative and not just two major coalitions to choose from. "He can surprise you at an election when running for the presidency. He will garner a lot of votes not necessarily to spoil others' chances but for Kenyans to exercise their constitutional right to vote for a leader of their choice," the Lawyer said. Maanzo added that Kalonzo was following the National Delegations Convention (NDC) direction when he said he would work with Raila. "Kalonzo has not gone outside that mandate. He was given the mandate by NDC to negotiate and work with like minded parties. It is what he was doing," Maanzo said. The lawmaker said the Kenyan Constitution does not include a provision for a Chief Cabinet Secretary and it can only exist in the event of an amendment. Maanzo however said it is unimplementable in the framework the provision has been put. "The only way the Chief CS can happen is if someone is a minister  and they are given extra administrative roles but there is no way you can appoint chief minister without the parliament's say so." Raila in his line up announced  Kalonzo will have the position of a Chief CS, if Azimio wins the race. Maanzo said Makueni  Governor Kivutha Kibwana and his Kitui Counterpart Charity Ngilu do not have enough political influence to replace Kalonzo's vote count. Maanzo's remarks comes a day after Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege urged Kalonzo to return to Azimio. She hit at him for turning on his word on supporting Raila's bid. "Kalonzo should know that we treasure him and want him back in Azimio," she said. Chege also pointed out that Kalonzo being the Ukambani political kingpin, still enjoys a fanatic support unlike that of Ngilu and Kivutha.