Kenya is leading Africa’s technology landscape as brands are using digital transformation to meet consumer demands. According to brand valuation consultancy firm–Brand Finance, Kenyan brands are disrupting the brick-and-mortar business model and equipping businesses with technological means to actively connect with end users. Kenyan brands have achieved remarkable brand value growth of 72 per cent year-on-year, the global firm notes. "As the economy reopens, the telecommunications, banking and insurance brands among others in the Kenya 20 ranking are benefiting from higher private consumption and demand among Kenyans," Brand Finance said in a statement yesterday. It noted that it is an interesting year for Kenya given that the country is headed into a general elections, which usually come with socio-economic disruptions especially to business and investment. During such times, there is a tradition where corporates tend to hold and postpone their investment decisions in anticipation to policy change. Every year, the leading brand valuation consultancy puts 5,000 of the world’s biggest brands to the test, and publishes around 100 reports, ranking brands across all sectors and countries. Kenya’s top 20 most valuable and strongest brands are included in the annual Brand Finance Kenya 20 ranking, and here are Kenya's top brands. Safaricom The telecommunications retained the top position as Kenya’s most valuable brand, valued at $689 million (Sh80.3billion). The brand is leveraging this mobile data provision to build strategic partnerships with fintech and third-party brands. It M-Pesa platform has driven up the brand value and strength of Safaricom. Equity Bank Equity Bank (brand value up 92% to $388 million is the strongest brand in Kenya with Brand Strength Index (BSI) score of 90.8 out of 100 and a corresponding AAA+ brand rating, the firm notes. The lender facilitates online banking with its mobile application EazzyNet which allows customers to use their bank account for online shopping, making transactions overseas, accessing loan options and paying bills via a smartphone. Tusker The beer brand more than doubles in brand value to be Kenya’s fastest growing brand. The Kenyan beer brand achieved an impressive 132 per cent brand value growth this year, growing to $50 million (Sh5.8 billion) in brand value. Kenyan Airways The airline is among top 10 brands with 21 per cent brand value growth. The Kenyan flag carrier has partnered with several international airlines including British Airways, Delta Air Lines, Oman Air and Air France to enhance its travel network. KenGen Kenya Electricity Generating (brand value $37 million) is a new entrant in the Kenyan top 20 ranking. KenGen has transformed their data management using cloud technology, allowing increased efficiency, and achieving cost saving benefits to end users. The brand developed an expansion strategy to increase its presence across Africa and deploy renewable geothermal energy. Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) The NSE has also enter top 20 by leveraging digital transformation Utilities brand. Nairobi Securities Exchange (brand value US$1 million) leverages the popularity of mobile phone applications among Kenyans to enable investors to access, buy and sell shares on the stock market.