The Kenya Health Federation (KHF) has welcomed the cabinet’s approval to ratify the African Medicines Agency (AMA) Treaty. On Thursday, the cabinet chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta approved the ratification, which now awaits the passing of the necessary legislative instruments at the National Assembly. KHF chairperson Kanyenje Gakombe said local health stakeholders would provide the necessary support to the Government in the race towards the establishment of AMA Headquarters in Kenya. "The establishment will provide the country with an opportunity to leverage foreign direct investment flows estimated at more than Sh570 billion in the short-to-medium term," he said. Gakombe added that the establishment of AMA locally will enhance Kenya's national competitiveness as a healthcare and pharmaceutical manufacturing hub in sub-Saharan Africa. He lauded the cabinet and Ministry of Health for signing the treaty. “KHF, which is the Health Sector Board of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), salutes the cabinet and the MoH for moving a step further towards the signing and ratification of the AMA Treaty." He urged MPs to prioritize the passing of the legislative instruments to boost further the chance of hosting the AMA in Kenya. Based on the recent securing of a US$500 million (Sh58 billion)  investment commitment by the Moderna firm seeking to set up a manufacturing plant in Kenya, KHF estimates that the hosting of AMA in Kenya will ignite a tenfold commitment to similar investments. Gikombe further said the hosting of AMA and the proposed setting up of Moderna will provide immense social and economic benefits, including quality job creation. He added that it will secure Kenya's national competitiveness as the home of big pharma in Africa. “We are confident that these two opportunities; Moderna plant and AMA, present huge benefits for our country and its citizens, which include, among others; sustainable supply chains, technology, knowledge and skills transfer, manufacture of complex and more advanced medicines, and economic empowerment through the creation of new quality jobs and export opportunities.” The AMA Treaty entered into force on November 5, 2021, upon depositing the 15th Instrument of ratification at the African Union Commission. AMA is an African Continental Agency that contributes to the improved regulation of medicines, medical products and technologies.