Nairobi county will soon launch an audit of buildings within the city amid rising cases of collapsed buildings in the metropolitan area. This is after Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the National Building Inspectorate held a meeting last month. According to NMS, the inspection exercise will focus on structural integrity and safety of buildings in the capital city, with NMS Directorate of Lands, Housing and Urban Development spearheading the exercise. “The building integrity and safety audit exercise will also entail sensitisation and technical training of county government and national government staff," NMS said. The training will focus "on building audit and inspection to verify structural integrity and safety of buildings within Nairobi.” Last year, Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia ordered the NBI to bring down all buildings which have been declared unsafe in various parts of the country. He said most of the developers are led by greed for money and rush to set up buildings so that they can start earning from them but forget to look at the quality of the work being done. "Greed for money should not be the determining factor for any project. Instead, the investor should consider the safety of the workers and the people who will occupy the house thereafter,” Macharia said. In an audit that was carried out by the inspectorate, it was revealed that 4,000 houses in Nairobi are unsafe for human habitation. Surveyors had earlier raised concerns over substandard houses being constructed in the city, accusing developers of seeking the services of unlicensed contractors to cut construction costs. Back in 2018, an audit by NBI said out of the 14,895 buildings they looked at, 723 were classified as very dangerous, 10,791 unsafe, 1,217 fair, and only 2,194 are safe. Only about 15 per cent were found to be safe, according the audit. More than 700 buildings, mostly in informal settlements, were found to be at a high risk of collapsing and require demolition. In 2020, a follow up audit report blamed poor workmanship as the leading cause of building collapses in Kenya. Thousands of buildings were found to exist without approval, with a majority collapsing after completion while a third collapsing during construction. The report said Kenya has recorded 87 building collapses over the past five years and estimated that 200 people have lost their lives in the last five years and more than 1,000 injured as a result. Out of the collapsed buildings, 65 per cent were residential, 25 per cent comprised commercial while 10 per cent were of mixed-use developments.  (edited by Amol Awuor)