Deaf Golf Federation of Kenya president Daniel Ogembo says they plan to introduce the game among deaf lady golfers and children. Ogembo is the team manager of the national deaf team in the ongoing 24th Deaflympics in Caxias Do Sul in Brazil. The team comprises Isaac Makokha, Gilbert Alikula, and Adan Wario. Ogembo, who spoke at the Caxias Do Sul Golf Course, said: “When we go back to Kenya, we want to start a program for the ladies and children. " We only have men here and we need to focus on, especially, gender balance. This competition has been a learning curve for us and next time we will ensure there are women in the team.” He added: “We want to start training junior deaf golfers and we are going to partner with some schools.” Ogembo said after the Deaflympics, the team will turn their focus to the World Deaf Championship in Hawaii in October. His sentiments were also echoed by coach Vincent Wang’ombe who is also the Kenya Golf Union's chief executive officer. “We need to get more deaf golfers playing this game. We want deaf children to start playing while young. We have started a program with Makokha to train deaf children,” said Wang’ombe. Wario pulled out of the competition due to an injury while Alikula and Makokha remain in the competition and are targeting the next round which is the top 16 and later quarterfinals. Makokha is currently ranked fourth after carding 156 points while Alikula is 18th with 198. Wario suffered a deep cut on the finger during the first match of the competition and couldn't continue due to excessive bleeding. “This was a very friendly course but there is always next time,” said Wario. Wang’ombe and Wario backed Makokha to win a medal for the country. Wang’ombe said: “They started off slowly because it was very cold and misty. "The players were a bit stiff considering they are not used to this kind of weather. "Alikula is not experienced but very optimistic. I told him to strive and be among the top 16. "Makokha is equally optimistic. He had two or three bad holes but he needs to try  and  block out what happened in the background because he can be easily distracted."