Uneasiness in Azimio over Raila Odinga’s running mate has taken a new twist after Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s troops asked him to snub the interviewing panel. In what could rock the coalition two weeks to deadline for submission of names of presidential running mates to the IEBC, they said the exercise is demeaning and belittling their boss. They spoke in the wake of Kalonzo expressing displeasure at the decision to subject him to an ‘exam’ for the position. “It is the kind of thing [the push and pull over a deputy] that makes me want to go home, to be honest. You all know my history. Should I really be struggling about this?” Kalonzo asked during an interview last week. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua and MPs Makali Mulu(Kitui Central), Dan Maanzo (Makueni) said they have advised their leader to give the interviews a wide berth. “We have encouraged him not to go for any interviews. Why should he go for any interviews? It is ether they need our votes or not,” Maanzo, a close ally of Kalonzo, said. Maanzo said the interviews is a smokescreen to frustrate their leader who possesses all the ‘qualities and qualifications of a president not just a deputy president.’ “Who does not know Kalonzo Musyoka? We know the role he played in 2013 and 2017. Why interview him now. It is very simple. No Kalonzo no Raila,” he said. On Sunday, the seven-member selection panel disclosed that  theywill conduct the interviews from Wednesday as it rushes against time to submit the suitable name (s) to Raila ahead of the deadline. “All the eminent Kenyans being considered for this important position of service to Kenyans will be meeting the selection panel between May 4 and 10, 2022,” the panel’s secretary Elizabeth Meyo said. Meyo unveiled the qualities and qualifications the panel will look at in search of a running mate slot. They must demonstrate their fidelity to the constitution, integrity and demonstrate respect for the people. “All the potential candidates that will be considered will be eminent Kenyans with demonstrated record of public leadership and service,” she said. However, the statement has rattled Kalonzo wing, with his allies saying their bases will revolt if he is not picked for the position. “It would be demeaning, not just to my party leader but to any candidate who aspires to be a deputy president to be subjected to those kind of interviews by people who in terms of political qualification are very junior to them,” Wambua said. “What question do you think we are supposed to be asking them?” he asked. "The person who is supposed to be a deputy president is the person who in the event of anything, can automatically take over as president. How will we interview such kind of person?” he said. Wambua, who is a member of the selection panel, said the criteria Meyo used to arrive to the qualification had not yet been agreed to by the team, which is yet to meet and set procedure and terms of service. “It is a very delicate thing. If it is mishandled, it can really be very destructive to the coalition,” Wambua said. Mulu held that Kalonzo supporters will vote for Deputy President William Ruto if Kalonzo loses out in the running mate position. He said that he  is unmatched by any of those seeking the seat. “Raila has already been deputised by Kalonzo twice. At that time, there were no interviews conducted. I don’t know why it is now necessary that he has got through an interview,” he said. “When you look at Kalonzo, he has all things which matter for one to be a deputy. None of those people has a huge following like Kalonzo in terms of numbers “None of them can match Kalonzo on experience. No can match him on international connection.” (Edited by Tabnacha O)