Azimio's presidential candidate Raila Odinga will on Thursday receive three names recommended by a panel of eminent persons seeking his strongest running mate. The search team chaired by former Kwanza MP Noah Wekesa was to handover its recommendation on Wednesday. However, they shelved the idea last minute in what was explained as unavailability of the former prime minister. “We intended to present our report today but little did we know that our party leader will be out of town, I only received the information this morning that he is out of town," Wekesa said on Wednesday. "Our statement was prepared in view of the fact that we were at the same time going to present the report to our leader." Wekesa told journalists that the ODM boss assured the committee of his availability on Thursday to receive the report. “He (Raila) has assured us he will be here tomorrow. We finished the job and we were ready to give the report today but we will do it tomorrow.” Multiple sourcing by the Star strongly pointed to a possibility that the committee settled on former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth as possible deputies. Another source however, told the Star of a list with Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege instead of Peter Kenneth. The two were both seconded by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee party. Chege’s candidature is seen as that which appeals to the youths and women population as well as the ‘hustlers’ having herself risen from a humble actress, radio presenter and video vixen. The Murang'a MP is also acceptable in Raila camp with those pro her candidature citing her non-combative nature. Raila, who is making a fifth stab at the presidency, is on horns of dilemma balancing whether to fish his running mate from Ukambani region or go to the restive Mt Kenya. An informal deal where Jubilee was to back ODM presidential candidate in exchange for a member of the ruling party being the running mate could further complicate chances of both Kalonzo and Karua. Wiper boss, Raila’s running mate in 2013 and 2017 general election, has signalled that more than two million remains elusive in the absence of a Raila-Kalonzo ticket. Raila’s think tanks also know the opposition supremo risks losing significant ground in Central that expects nothing short of a second in command position. Having a Mt Kenya running mate is also seen as a way of locking out Deputy President William Ruto who has made significant inroads in the region. Analysts have reckoned the choice of running mate will not determine by a large extent who will win in the August 9 polls. “Running mate is like a barometer and a barometer does not determine the force of the wind, it only shows the direction of the wind,” political analyst Javas Bigambo told the Star. “The power of a success in this election will not be determined by the running mate but it will be bolstered by the choice of the running.” The panel was mandated to present at least three names to Raila after a comprehensive assessment and gauging. Some of the parameters the panel was using include; compatibility with the candidate, political experience, integrity and the number of votes the pick will bring to the presidential vote basket. Raila will now have to pick one name from the three recommended and submit to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission before the May 16 deadline. Last week, Wekesa said the ODM leader will not pick his running mate outside the three suggested by the panel. “Raila cannot pick anybody outside what we are going to give him,” he said on Sunday. Raila left Nairobi on Tuesday evening for a series of rallies at the Coastal region. The committee shortlisted 11 persons for Raila deputy job but interviewed 10 after Kanu chairman Gideon Moi withdrew claiming his name was submitted without his consent. The panel interviewed; Narc Kenya boss Martha Karua, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Lee Kinyajui (Nakuru) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Chege and ex Emgwen MP Stephen Tarus. (Edited by Tabnacha O)