Kisumu county assembly speaker Elisha Oraro has donated shoes to 162 students joining Form 1 in Kisumu North ward. He said this was aimed at motivating the students, preserving their safety and easing the burden of purchasing shoes by their families. Oraro said they donated the shoes to students from both public and private schools. “We had promised students within the area that anyone who scores 330 and above from public schools and 350 for those in private will get new shoes,” he said. Oraro said this is the third time they are donating shoes in Kisumu North ward. He said they are committed to a better society through support of child education for sustainable development. Oraro said when they started the programme, 68 candidates who sat their KCPE exam and got 330 marks and above benefited. “The second time we had 115 students, which means there was 100 per cent increase in performance and this time round we are handing 162 shoes to students in the ward and another 20 students from Maseno Girls High School,” he said. Oraro said he started the programme when he was an MCA and plans to roll it out across the county in the near future. He said he brought in other stakeholders on board, including NGOs working within the area, teachers, civil society and parents. “We want to uplift the education level of our students and motivate them to do better. We see what we are doing yielding fruits because the numbers keep increasing every year.” Parents who accompanied the students lauded the initiative, saying some burden has been lifted off their shoulders. “We really appreciate this move. When someone gives you shoes for your child, then the only thing you can do is thank God,” Mary Okullo said. Students who benefited could not hide their joy as they told those involved in the process to continue supporting more students. Beneficiary Cecilia Bianga said some of their families cannot afford such shoes hence it is a blessing to them. “I want to tell speaker Oraro to continue motivating students. We want to thank him for putting a smile on our faces,” she said. Learners from Akingli, Alara, Bar Union, Bar Ogwal, Thim Bonde, Yath Rateng, Sidika, Ogada, Orinde, Obede Wachara, Mkendwa Muslim, Geta, Gee, Dago Kokore, Dago Thim primary schools benefited. Others are Blaire Academy, Fosar Academy, Our Lady of Grace and Disciple of Mercy Primary School.