Despite receiving numerous pieces of advice on our screens and getting nutrition information on labels of food, to most of us, nutrition only comes in handy when we are sick. What they do not tell you is that if you treat the human being and work to make him/her healthier, the disease will also be addressed and cured. Is this the reason nutrition is almost totally ignored in medical school training programs? Help yourself to these healing foods. Spinach, broccoli, collards, and leafy greens have high amounts of vitamin K, which helps your blood cells group up and clot. Greens help your body build healthy bone tissues and they also contribute to a healthy heart in several ways. They contain potassium, which lowers high blood pressure; fiber, which keeps cholesterol in check. They say an apple a day, keeps the doctor away. They're rich in fiber and antioxidants. Eating them is linked to a lower risk of many chronic conditions, including diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. Apples may also promote weight loss and improve gut and brain health. Ginger comes in many forms, including dried, fresh, powdered, and ground. Ginger helps to relieve chest congestion from common colds and can help fight cell damage from inflammation. The water we drink is absorbed by the intestines, and circulated throughout the body in the form of body fluids such as blood. These perform various functions that keep us alive like delivering oxygen and nutrients to the cells and taking away waste materials, which are then eliminated with urination. Honey lessens inflammation, soothes pain, and kills bacteria. It is also full of antibodies that fight viral infections. It is packed with vitamins like niacin and vitamin C, and minerals like calcium and iron, for a healthy boost of energy. Add 2 tablespoons to warm water or tea for a natural cough suppressant with big benefits. Let us maintain healthy diets and drink lots of water. Our immune system requires essential vitamins and minerals in order to function optimally. The food we eat plays a vital role in how we look and feel, not forgetting exercising.