With only three days remaining for political parties to name their presidential and deputy presidential candidates, all eyes are on Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka who is eyeing to be Raila Odinga's running mate. Some media reports have said that Kalonzo will vie for the country's top seat if he is not chosen as Raila's running mate. According to Standard Newspaper, allies of the Wiper leader are confident they have laid elaborate plans to have him run for the presidency in the August 9 General Elections. Reports indicate that Kalonzo has already collected the required 2,000 signatures from at least 24 counties. But does he stand a chance? Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, in a gazette notice, had laid out elaborate timelines for political parties and independent candidates to submit the names of those who will contest in the August polls. “Political parties intending to present Presidential and Deputy Presidential candidates, through party primaries or direct nominations shall submit the names of the Presidential and Deputy Presidential candidates in the prescribed format to the Commission on or before Monday, May 16, 2022,” read the gazette notice. Senator, Women Representative, MP, and County Assembly Ward Member aspirants had until April 28, 2022, to submit the names to IEBC. Azimio and Kenya Kwanza are expected to submit the names of their presidential and deputy presidential aspirants by Monday. For Kenya Kwanza, Ruto said the name of his deputy will be presented to IEBC before the set deadline. And for Raila, he is likely to name his running mate on Sunday during a rally at Kamkunji Grounds in Nairobi. Sources within the selection panel say Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua is rated highly. Multiple sources told the Star that Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth were also recommended to Raila by the panel. The panel also interviewed governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) for the running mate position. Others are Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya and former Emgwen MP Stephen Tarus. The panel was rating the candidates based on constitutional qualifications, understanding of government, personality, political acumen, compatibility and loyalty to the Azimio presidential candidate. Considering the set deadline, Kalonzo has 72 hours to make his decision on whether to contest for the top seat. [Edited by Mercy Asamba]