The partnership between the government and community-led organizations is the best way to end poverty within slum areas across the world, this is according to Kenyan social entrepreneur Kennedy Odede. Addressing the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland on Wednesday, Odede said the government cannot achieve poverty eradication in the slum areas alone. “We are working with the government to come up with policies that can really transform these kinds of communities. I think it is possible if we unite,” Odede who is the founder and CEO of Shofco said. The forum’s theme was Rethinking How to Eliminate Global Poverty. It brought together heads of state and government, global CEOs and other leaders to discuss critical challenges facing the world today and present ideas on how to address them. Odede used the forum to illustrate why the upgrading program of the Kibera slum failed. In the project, the government made efforts to move people from dilapidated housing structures to newly built ones. “Kibera has like one million people and the government thought it can solve the problem of housing by helping one section and forgot the social connection and how close-knit these slum communities are,” Odede said. “What happened is that with no housing for the middle class, they paid the slum dwellers who had been given the new houses and occupied them while the others returned to the slums.” Odede opined that for such a project to be a success, the government has to involve community organizations and locals who will propose the best plan that suits them if implemented. It is in the same breath that the Shofco CEO says many NGOs have failed to make it in their social pursuits in slum areas. He said there is a need to understand the needs of the people on ground to be able to solve them. “We see people flying in and think that they can save people but that cannot happen. We have to understand the experience of the leaders who are there. Poverty can be eradicated if we give the tools to the people,” he added. And as the country heads to the August 9, polls, Odede noted that he has seen a paradigm shift in campaigns. He divulged that the town hall meetings between aspirants and the electorate are the best way to go in drafting plans and solutions to problems ailing communities. “The slum community is a big voting bloc in Kenya so we ask ourselves, how can we turn the masses into accountability. We organize ourselves, meet politicians from ward to presidential level and ask what they want from us as we tell them what we need from them because the slum community are ready to work with any government.” This was the second time in a week the Shofco founder was taking to the stage in Davos. He was among 16 people who were awarded the 2022 Social Innovator of the Year by the prestigious Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship on Monday.