Wajir governor aspirant Siyad Abdullahi's bid received a boost after he was endorsed by the Matan community on Tuesday. Siyad, who is vying on the Wiper ticket, said he is in it to win and promised his political opponents a gruelling campaign. Speaking during his endorsement in Wajir, Siyad also unveiled Ahmed Hefow as his running mate. Hefow hails from the Ajuran clan. Siyad, who was accompanied by Wajir West MP Ahmed Kolosh, said with his campaign team now in place, it is time to hit the road running in search of votes. “I wish to express my deepest gratitude to the Mataan community and everyone who played a key role in this very important exercise. I don’t take it for granted. I promise to repay your trust with good leadership,” Siyad said. In terms of clan matrix, Siyad's endorsement is a major blow to former governor Ahmed Abdullahi, who hails from the clan. The aspirant said he will give people the leadership that they yearn for. “I have the competence and courage to make development and prosperity a reality. When I decided to contest, it was you the people who pushed me. I want to state here categorically, that I will offer servant leadership that has been missing for decades,” he said. Siyad is a healthcare entrepreneur and a public health expert with a background in family medicine. He has lived in the US for more than 20 years and promises to use his networks and experience run the county better. The gubernatorial hopeful said his campaigns will be based on issues affecting residents. Siyad further praised his running mate, saying he ticked all the boxes of the person he was looking for. He said his failure or success as a governor is pegged on the person he picks to deputise him. Hefow, on his part, said it is an honor to be chosen by Siyad, adding that he will do all it takes to deliver votes from his area. Mohamed Abdullahi, an elder from the Maatan community, said they had decided to support Siyad, whom he said is the best bet. Other candidates in the Wajir gubernatorial race include incumbent Mohamed Abdi, former governor Ahmed Abdullahi, Ahmed Mukhtar, Senator Abdullahi Ali, Adam Hassan and Ugas Sheikh. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)