Hit Squad flyweight pugilist, Ann Wanjiru, says she is exiting the World Women's Boxing Championships in Istanbul, Turkey, a proud woman despite crashing to Tetiana Kob of Ukraine in the preliminaries of the global show. Wanjiru conceded that she lost to a more technically adept opponent who left a big impression on her fledgling career. “The bout was challenging and the opponent tough. But I had to die doing what I love most. There was no way I was going to give up,” Wanjiru said. “I've learnt a lot of lessons from today's bout. I only need to work on a few things and I will be ready for this kind of challenge in the future. I believe I can do better than what I did today. “But so far, I thank God because I didn't give up despite being drawn against a tough battler. It was a tough game, I can confess,” Wanjiru said. Wanjiru said although she felt more powerful than her opponent in the ring, she capitalized on her swift feet to score more points. “She was technically much better and moved faster in the ring. However, I was more physically fit and she lacked power in her hands because I hardly felt the impact of her punches in my abdomen,” Wanjiru said. Head coach Benjamin Musa said he hoped his charges would glean some lessons from the bouts that have already been fought to turn around the fortunes of the team in the remaining encounters. “We've had some tough bouts against very very good opponents and so far I've been impressed with the performance we managed to put in,” Musa said. “We have observed a number of shortcomings in our boxers that boil down to experience and, hopefully, we'll be able to rectify them before the next bouts,” Musa said. Wanjiru was the third boxer to stumble out of the contest, marking the third day of Kenya's torrid form at the tournament. On Monday, Lorna Kusa was stopped in Round One by Kazakhstani Khalzova Valentine in their light middleweight division. Olympian Christine Ongare then exited the championship after a unanimous decision loss to Ukrainian Okhota Hanna in their minimum weight round of 32 contests. Featherweight Beatrice Akoth and middleweight Elizabeth Akinyi and Elizabeth Akinyi had bouts later in the day.