Three out of sixteen Machakos County senatorial candidates have been cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. County returning officer Nelly Ilongo said the trio were among the six who were scheduled to present their papers to IEBC for clearance on Sunday, May 29. Incumbent Agnes Kavindu, former Machakos County Assembly Speaker Bernard Mung’ata and People Trust Party leader Mutua Katuku were cleared to contest for the senatorial seat ahead of August 9 elections. The exercise is ongoing at Machakos Teachers Training College. Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo appeared before the commission, but wasn’t cleared after he failed to meet all the requirements as outlined by IEBC. He was sent to go fulfill the requirement he fell short on before returning for clearance. “We have started the exercise well and so far cleared three candidates for the Machakos senatorial seat. We are waiting to receive others for clearance, we are getting on well,” Ilongo said. She addressed the press shortly after Kavindu was cleared and issued with a certificate. “We have a total of 16 candidates contesting for the seat, we have scheduled six for clearance each day for three days,” Ilongo said. She said clearance exercise for Members of National Assembly was also going on in respective constituency tallying centres within the county. Clearance for senate and Members of National Assembly aspirants is scheduled to end on May 31. “I believe we will finish the exercise in peace. We are still clearing and all who meet the set requirements will be cleared. We are within timelines,” Ilongo added. Kavindu who is contesting on a Wiper ticket said the clearance process by IEBC was satisfactory, commending the electoral body for being fast, friendly and professional in the exercise. “I have been cleared and issued with a certificate to defend my seat. I thank the electorate for voting me as their senator and request them to re-elect me on August 9.” She assured Machakos residents that she will deliver as a senator if re-elected. Kavindu told residents not to elect ‘projects’, but leaders who can fight for them and protect their resources and interests. Mung’ata on his side urged fellow aspirants to engage in peaceful campaigns ahead of the polls. He said no youth should accept to be politically misused by any politician. “I have been cleared to proceed with my campaigns and we will deliver to Machakos residents. I urge my colleagues that we engage in peaceful campaigns,” Mung’ata said. He is contesting on Maendeleo Chap Chap party ticket. Other aspirants who were expected to return their papers for clearance on Sunday included Charles Mutavi (Independent), Joshua Ndolo (PDU), and Dickson Muli (Independent). Urbanus Ngengele (ODM), Otto Edward (Ford Asili), Maureen Ndungwa (Jubilee), Mutaki Faith (ANC), Joel Kyatha (UDA), and Agnes Ndanu (DAPK) are scheduled to present their papers on Monday. On Tuesday, Mbasi Celestine (FORD Kenya), Zaytuni Caroline (LDP), Nthiga Macrine (NARC Kenya) and Agela Mwikali (Usawa Kwa Wote) will present their papers on Tuesday for clearance.