Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana has called on the Wiper party to drop its endless demands and return to Azimio la Umoja. In a tweet on Thursday, Kibwana said the party would still have a chance to negotiate alongside other parties from Ukambani for inclusion in the Azimio administration should the outfit clinch the presidency after the August polls. “Waita Nzioka, Charity Ngilu and I still welcome Wiper to Azimio. However, all the parties which are campaigning for the fifth in Ukambani will sit with the candidate and his deputy to agree on development and the face of government for the region,” Kibwana said. “No more endless demands,” he added. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka last Sunday announced that the party had severed ties with the Azimio la Umoja formation after the running mate slot was given to Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua. Kalonzo announced he would go for the presidency himself and unveiled Andrew Sunkuli as his running mate. Kibwana ditched Wiper in August 2021 after a fall-out with Kalonzo and joined the Muungano Party, a constituent party of the Azimio caravan. His calls for the Wiper party, and by large, for Kalonzo to desist from making demands to Azimio serve to mount pressure on the former Vice President to reconsider his decision to ditch Azimio. This is after the Azimio deputy governor candidate for Nairobi, Philip Kaloki, said his presidential candidate remains to be Raila Odinga. Kaloki, who is from Kalonzo’s Wiper party, said on Thursday that they have not been asked to drop their support for the Azimio presidential candidate. He said the initial agreement in Azimio for Jubilee and Wiper to produce the governor and deputy governor candidates for the Nairobi top seat is still binding. “We don't have any directions contrary to this position," Kaloki said on K24 TV. On May 9, Machakos governor aspirant Nzioka Waita asked Kalonzo to drop his hardliner stance on the Azimio la Umoja deputy post. Waita cautioned the Wiper boss that his 'my way or the highway' ideology runs the risk of isolating the Kamba nation in the opposition after the August polls. "If Azimio succumbs to this blackmail, we the Kamba Nation better book an early seat on the opposition benches where we shall sit for another 10 years," he said. Prior to Waita’s remarks, Kalonzo was quoted saying he would approach discussions around coalition building as a tough negotiator and he would not budge.