A mandatory meeting to unlock Sh39 billion funding for Kenya’s HIV programmes has been postponed for the fifth time. The first between the Ministry of Health, civil society organisations and the US President's Emergency Plan for Aids Relief was scheduled for March this year. However, the government asked for multiple postponements, angering organisations for people living with HIV, who fear the delays might affect shipments of ARVs into Kenya. The meeting is mandatory to approve Kenya’s Country Operational Plan, detailing how the country plans to spend the Sh39 billion donated by Pepfar this year. “The money should be utilised from October this year, and it is not yet clear when the COP process will resume,” Nelson Otwoma, head of Nephak, said. National Empowerment Network of People living with HIV-Aids in Kenya is the umbrella body for NGOs involved in HIV activities,. The last meeting, which was to be held at the end of April, was also postponed through an email by Pepfar at the request of the ministry, but no explanation was given. Health PS Susan Mochache did not respond to inquiries by the Star on why a fifth postponement was sought. However, Dr Carmela Green Abate, Kenya Pepfar Coordinator, previously said this was to allow more time for planning. “The decision was not taken without merit as we believe that it is critical to take some additional time to ensure we have the most informed plan possible,” she said. Pepfar is the biggest financier of HIV programmes in Kenya and its donation buys ARVs and supports other activities such as testing and research. “We all understand that the complexities of the Kenya programme requires thoughtful and intentional collaboration and planning. So we hope that you see this as an opportunity for us to deepen our partnership and jointly strengthen the HIV response for Kenya,” Dr Carmela said. The meeting should be held soon after Pepfar issues a planning letter, which details the amount of money the US will give the country. This year, Pepfar proposes to give Kenya $345 million (Sh39.17 billion) from October, according to the planning letter dated January 19, 2022. In the letter, the Pepfar main office complained that Kenya has been reluctant to increase its counterpart funding for HIV activities. “This has been a constant Pepfar call in the last five years and resonates well with the CSOs position,” Nephak said in a separate email. In the letter, acting Pepfar boss Dr Angeli Achrekar said Kenya must also take up more responsibilities such as viral load tests for children. “Pepfar Kenya has one of the largest programmes and budgets, but falls in the bottom third when it comes to host country government co-financing,” she said in the planning letter sent to  US Embassy Chargé d'Affaires Eric Kneedler. She added, “Now that Pepfar Kenya’s focus is shifting to sustaining its HIV impact, the co-financing commitments and follow-through need to be a priority." She also warned Pepfar-funded programmes in Kenya must not hire extra staff and some jobs will be merged. The donor works through the National Aids Control Council, the National Aids and STIs Control Programme and about 100 other implementing partners, mainly non-governmental groups. Angeli said Kenya was already in epidemic control and therefore unnecessary spending must stop. Epidemic control is reached when the total number of new HIV infections falls below the total number of deaths from all causes among HIV-positive individuals.   -Edited by SKanyara