Murang'a avocado farmers have linked the rampant theft of ripe fruits to  disgruntled brokers locked out of the supply chain after growers signed contracts with bulk buyers. The farmers have said that after they joined a co-operative and started selling their fruits through contract farming to processing companies, brokers felt left out and started invading their farms. Led by their co-operative officials, the farmers have petitioned the county assembly to come up with a law that will shield them from the heavy losses they incur from theft. They expressed concern that the brokers could be exposing the country to immature avocado exports, further dampening buyers' confidence. The farmers, who presented their petition to county assembly speaker Nduati Kariuki, accused brokers of using local youths to steal fruits from their farms. Murang’a Avocado Cooperative Union chairperson John Mwaniki said the brokers are using youths to steal and sell the fruits at the local market at throwaway prices. "Some of them have opened illegal buying centres that they use to collect stolen avocados," he said. The thieves wait for the farmers to go to church or leave their homes before they invade their farms. This, he said, has forced farmers to spend a lot of time guarding their avocados, which disrupts their normal farming activities. "The majority of our members have refused to sell avocados to brokers because they get more money from buyers and this is affecting their income," Mwaniki said. Peter Njuguna from Kandara said Murang’a is known to be the best producer of avocados in the country, but brokers may jeopardise their chance to access the international market. "These brokers are making it hard for hard-working farmers to earn the money they deserve by stealing immature fruits from their farms," he said. Speaker Kariuki pledged to have the assembly amend and pass the County Avocado Production and Processing Bill 2020. Earlier on, the bill elicited strong reactions from stakeholders who complained that it would disadvantage both farmers and traders. They said it would herd farmers into specific buying companies. "The House will revisit the bill and review sections that were opposed by stakeholders," Kariuki said. He also promised to work with the county security team to have the thieves invading their farms and the unlicensed buyers and transporters arrested. Kariuki said he was in communication with the county commissioner, who assured him that buyers found in possession of avocados will have to explain where they got them from. "I'm however appealing to farmers to give information on the suspects to curb the thefts. Avocados have become a new cash crop for our farmers and brokers cannot be allowed  to mess with the crop," he said. Edited by A.N