Hit Squad captain, Nick Okoth, says Kenya's improved performance at the International Boxing Association (IBA) World Women's Championship in Turkey was priceless despite the medal drought. Okoth lauded the women for mustering up sufficient courage to put up a gallant fight mainly characterised by firepower. He said the performance attested to the country's determination to restore its lost glory on the global stage. “The performance of the women's team at the World Championship shows how far we've come in terms of quality. Even if none of them bagged a medal, they at least they fought to the end of their bouts,” Okoth said. He said Kenya could have pushed their fortunes a notch higher at the championship if the boxers had been more aggressive in the ring. “What I've learned thus far is that the judges reward aggression handsomely. They are keen on boxers who take the battle to their opponent's doorstep without flinching,” Okoth added. The seasoned pugilist spoke after a training session with the Commonwealth-bound team that reported to camp on Tuesday at the Mathare Depot in Nairobi. Coach Benjamin Musa has summoned his team despite the uncertainty surrounding the number of slots set aside for boxers in the Kenyan contingent for the Commonwealth games. “The entire Hit Squad have reported to camp. Of course, we all want to compromise the traveling party and it would be unwise to wait for the National Olympics Committee of Kenya to provide slots before we can start training,” Okoth said. Okoth has vowed to jut out his full talons as he eyes one last vintage performance in Birmingham on his way to retirement, adding that he expects to bag at least a silver medal. “As I had said earlier, this will be my last competition. I intend to retire thereafter and concentrate on other things. Which is why I must work hard enough to ensure I return home with a medal, at least a silver if a gold medal gets out of reach,” Okoth said. “I've been training on my own ever since we returned from the Africa Zone 3 Games in Congo a month ago. I don't want to be ambushed when I'm not ready and fit enough for the games,” Okoth said. Okoth says he remains unfazed by his performance at the Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa, Congo where he settled for bronze after crushing 4-1 to Cameroon's Sangue Alain in the lightweight division. The veteran pugilist believes the judges treated him unfairly in the bout, insisting that he actually pulverized his opponent.