Four more suicide incidents were Tuesday, May 17, reported to police in what officials term a worrying trend. Authorities say they record at least one case of suicide daily in the country and the trend has been on the rise. The first incident was reported in Kikuyu where a 25-year-old man died by suicide in his house in Kikuyu, Kiambu County. The man identified as Moses Kagiri was found dead in his house. The motive of the incident is yet to be known. In Mkuru slums, Keneddy Odhiambo, 35, was found dead in an apparent suicide. He used a net to hang himself in his house. In Kaptama, Mt Elgon, Phanuel Mulongo hanged himself on a tree and also took a concoction of poison. The concoction was found next to the tree long after the incident had happened. In Koru, Muhoroni, Edward Onyango, 18 hanged himself on a tree. Police said they are yet to know the motives of the incidents. Cases of suicide have been on the rise in the past months at an alarming rate amid calls to address the trend. Most of the victims are men. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says such cases are attributed to joblessness, the breakup of relationships or a death, academic failures or pressures, legal difficulties, financial difficulties, bullying, previous suicide attempts, history of suicide in a family, alcoholism and substance misuse, depression and bipolar disorder. There were 174 cases of suicide reported in 2020 as compared to 196 in 2019, 302 in 2018, 421 in 2017 and 302 in 2016. Meanwhile, a suspect who was in police custody collapsed and died while in custody at the Kibera Railways police post in an incident. Isaack Cheruiyot who had been detained for obtaining with false pretences complained of fever as police processed him for court production before he collapsed and died. The cause of the death is yet to be established. In Nyamakima, a man collapsed and died in a chemist. Witnesses and police said Thomas Pasu had walked into a chemist seeking help when he collapsed and died. The cause of the death is yet to be known.