NARC-Kenya leader Martha Karua says she will have no problem if not picked as ODM leader Raila Odinga's presidential running mate. Though there has been intense pressure and lobbying from her supporters over the seat, Karua said the outcome of the ongoing vetting will not make her quit Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Alliance. Speaking to hundreds of her supporters in Nyeri town on Tuesday, the Narc Kenya leader said she will remain loyal to Raila and campaign for his presidential bid since her decision to join Azimio was not a gamble. "We've worked as ministers in (President Mwai) Kibaki's government where I was minister for water and Odinga the minister for roads. We achieved a lot together and so I know him as a hardworking person," she said. She labelled Raila as a patriot who puts the interests of Kenyans first even when wronged saying that is the kind of a leader Kenyans should be looking for. Karua explained that her decision to join Azimio was fueled by her desire to join hands with like-minded leaders to fight graft that is crippling the Kenyan economy. She seemingly took a swipe at the Kenya Kwanza Alliance saying their competitors have shown no commitment to the fight against corruption. The Narc Kenya leader implored her supporters to hit the ground running and campaign for Raila's presidential bid. Karua was flanked by leaders including Narc Kenya's Nyeri senatorial candidate Kabando Wa Kabando, who is a former Mukurweini MP. Kabando said if Karua is overlooked in the running mate choice, he will focus on his Senatorial bid only and shun campaigning for Raila. The former Mukurweini MP, however, said they are ready to hit the ground running if Karua is picked as Azimio's deputy presidential candidate. He urged Raila to pick Karua to also boost his Mt Kenya region chances. “But if you do not pick her, then there is no point of going to the ballot because you will lose even the little support you have in the region," he urged Raila. Former Trade minister in late former President Mwai Kibaki’s government Mukhisa Kituyi said Raila fits the bill as Kenya's next president. He said they teamed up with Karua to back Raila because of his track record in government. Muriithi Kagai, a governor aspirant in Kirinyaga, said Raila, Karua ticket is the best winning combination and urged Nyeri residents to support the duo. Others present included Nyeri women representative aspirant on Jubilee party ticket Njeri Njoori, Mathira parliamentary aspirant on Narc-K ticket Waruru Gikandi, Albert Gakuru of presidential delivery unit and Tetu MP aspirant on Jubilee ticket Githigaro Wachira. They all asked Nyeri people to stand with Karua as a way of reciprocating her support to Kibaki when he was president.