Deputy President William Ruto's presidential secretariat now claims there is a plot to rig the August 9 polls in favour of Raila Odinga. The secretariat has placed ICT CS Joe Mucheru at the center of the alleged plot. "Of particular concern is the emergence of the outrageous video clip of ICT CS Joe Mucheru pledging his allegiance, committing public resources and and institutions and declaring state support for Azimio la Umoja," the team said in a statement on Thursday. The group said that senior government officials are in move to purport to assume roles and positions intended to influence the conduct and outcome of the poll results. "Of concern to us is the critical role the Ministry of ICT plays in supervising and overseeing the Communication Authority of Kenya." According to the secretariat, CS Mucheru's recent statement highlights an unfortunate trend by some of the CSs to pursue impunity. It added that it is the mandate of the IEBC to ensure a free, fair and credible election at every level across the country. This is the third time in less than a year that the DP's camp is making allegations on poll rigging. The DP's allies made similar claims in mid-July 2021 and accused some individuals in government of being behind the scheme. Without providing any evidence to back their statement, some 20 MPs held a press conference at Parliament Buildings on July 23, 2021, and claimed that a ‘cabal’ in government had hatched a scheme to instigate chaos during the polls. “Some notorious officers of the government are perusing unlawful, irregular and unconstitutional means to incorporate an armed militia for the sole purpose of terrorising Kenyans and destabilising the country during the 2022 general election,”claimed the MPs. The government dismissed the claims terming them as fabricated issues. On March 2, 2022 while on a tour of the United States, Ruto himself made similar claims. He claimed the plan involved using blackmail, intimidation and the criminal justice system to stifle dissent. The DP appeal to the global community to intervene and stop attempts to rig the presidential election. “There is a huge pushback by citizens against any attempts to choreograph the next dispensation. We want to make our choices without being chaperoned, blackmailed or intimidated,” Ruto said. His vote-rigging claims during an address at a democracy forum at Loyola University in Maryland, prompted angry reactions from rivals, including Raila Odinga and his allies.