Fresh from winning the Kabeberi Sevens, KCB  have been pitted against Nakuru RFC, Hosts Kenya Harlequin and Pirates in the Christie Sevens this weekend. The bankers, who are the defending champions of the circuit, open their campaign against Pirates before taking on Quins in their second match. They conclude their preliminary stage against Nakuru. Head coach Dennis Mwanja termed the pool tricky but exuded confidence that his charges will prevail. "Everyone will be seeking to beat the champions but we have stepped up a gear and we will be ready for the job come this weekend,” added Mwanja. Strathmore Leos, who finished second in the Kabeberi 7s, are in Pool B alongside Daystar Falcons, Blak Blad and Impala Saracens. Pool 'C' will feature Menengai Oilers, MMUST and Kabras RFC. MMUST  and their neighbours Kabras will renew rivalry for the second week running. Pool 'D' will have Homeboyz, Mwamba, Western Bulls and Western Bulls battling out. KCB are the defending champions having beaten Nakuru RFC 12-7 in 2019 final. After racing from behind to draw the game 7-7 at full time, KCB needed an Elphas Adunga sudden death to win the title. In Division Two category, Mean Machine who were relegated from the top division are in Pool 'A' and will be up against Molo, Ngong and Kabarak. Pool 'B' comprises Northern Suburbs, Embu, Borderrucks and Kisumu RFC while Pool 'C' has Makueni, KCA, JKUAT and Stingers. The fourth Pool has Administration Police Warriors, Dagoretti Bulldogs, TUK and Comras. Shamas Foundation are in Pool E with MKU Nairobi, Stormers and Kiambu RFC. Zetech Oaks, USIU Martial, Masaku, and Kenya Prisons will form the final pool. The competition has 24 teams which have been divided into pools of four each. The Christie Sevens, which began in 1962 and was incorporated into the Kenyan National Sevens Circuit in 1999, is Kenya’s oldest Club Sevens tournament. Christie Sevens is named after Alex ‘Sandy’ Milne Christie, a Kenya Harlequins President, experienced rugby player, and referee for Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, Kampala, Uganda, and Mombasa, Kenya, who also served as President of the RFUEA and Vice-President of Wasps RFC in England.