Nairobi Gubernatorial candidate Polycarp Igathe has assured city hall staff that none will be sacked before retirement age, if he is elected. To ensure that the youth can also work in the same environment, Igathe said his administration will also create a program where we can infuse young people so that they too can serve in the county. “Let it be known that I'm not coming to fire old workers and bring in new people to work within Nairobi City County. You will serve till retirement age,” he noted. The 2019  Biometric Card Registration report  revealed that about a half of Nairobi County government employees are aged 50 and above with most set for retirement. It showed  that out of a total registered 11,603 employees (6,118 female and 5,485 male), 5,709 workers are above age 50. The recommended retirement age is 60. The number of staff between ages 50 and 54 are 2,978, those between 55 to 59 number 2,712, while there are 19 individuals over 60 years The workers between ages 30 and 49 are 5,723 while only 131 employees are below the age of 30. The report, commissioned by former Governor Mike Sonko was aimed at weeding out ghost workers and eradicating impostors pretending to be Nairobi County employees. The Jubilee party candidate said that his administration with Phillip Kaloki (running mate) will be all inclusive. He revealed that they will first meet county staff to listen to their grievances as well as challenges faced by the county. “The first town hall meeting will be held during this campaign, we will start with the county workers. Nobody understands the challenge, the problem of Nairobi more than the workers of the Nairobi City County. I will be calling on them and asking them to come and tell us what they like,” Igathe said. On his side, Kaloki said under their leadership, regular training of workers would be conducted . "Together with the Governor, we will improve the general working conditions within the county and champion healthy working environments that will empower workers to work and provide efficient services in Nairobi," he added. Igathe an Kaloki have been doing people to people campaigns, visiting different city estates and talking to area residents. Igathe who is from the Azimio la Umoja camp will face off with Johnson Sakaja of the Kenya Kwanza Alliance. Sakaja is the current Senator of Nairobi County, while Igathe served as Deputy governor for a few months before he resigned.