Mwananchi Credit Ltd director Dennis Mombo on Wednesday narrated how his next-door neighbour allegedly robbed him of Sh300,000 valuables seven years ago. Mombo told court Dishon Mulinge — an aspirant for Embakasi South MP — was among four men who attacked him at his doorstep as he came back home on the night of November 1, 2015. He said it was a normal day but at his door Mulinge and three other men armed with M-16 rifles accosted him, blindfolded him and took him inside Mulinge’s house next door. Two rifles were presented in court as exhibits. They allegedly tied his both his feet and hands and took valuables from him then hurriedly left the house. After 20 minutes he crawled to the balcony and screamed for help. Security guards responded swiftly and police were called. While being cross-examined by Mulinge’s lawyer Danstan Omari, Mombo said he did not know the motive of the accused persons who robbed him. But he said he remembers the day vividly, as if it were yesterday. Omari asked who else visited him when he lived at the apartments on Ole Dume Road. He said he never received a single visitor, nor did his wife. “Your Honour, for the one year I had stayed in that house neither  me or my wife had ever received a visitor,” Mombo said. Omari further inquired if that was not suspicious and out of the norm that they had never had any visitors. Mombo said he didn’t see it as being suspicious because it was their choice. Once he identified Mulinge in the parade, Mombo said he recognised Mulinge’s voice because he had allegedly called him sometime later asking for Sh20 million as “ransom". The case however took a twist when Mombo disowned one of the witness statements that had his name on it, saying it did not belong to him. Omari told the court that the prosecution had supplied them with the two witness statements. One was recorded at 9.20am and the other at 11am, bearing his signatures. The prosecution said there are indeed two witness statements but they will be relying on the detailed one and they are not sure if both were supplied to the defence. Omari asked court to order forensic investigation to ascertain whether the signature on the disowned statement belonged to Mombo. He further said if it turns out to be fake, then the DPP will have to explain why they forged the signature but if it is Mombo’s, then he will face the law for lying to the court. Magistrate Robinson Ondieki directed Omari to file a formal application so the prosecution can respond before he makes a ruling. Mombo was stood down and he will be recalled once a ruling has been made to continue with cross-examination. The case will be come up on June 2 for directions and the court had allowed an application by Mulinge not to be in attendance because he will be busy on the campaign trail. (Edited by V. Graham)