Some Likoni women have urged their Mombasa counterparts to avoid being missed by politicians to settle political scores. They were defending Likoni MP Mishi Mboko against their Kisauni fellows allied to former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko who hurled insults at Mboko, for allegedly calling him a political reject. The women were responding to a video that went viral on social media showing some Kisauni women said to be Sonko's supporters insulting Mboko and demanding that she respects Sonko. Led by Bibi Ngare they accused their colleagues of allowing themselves to be swayed with money to attack their fellow women. “Mombasa women are calm and respectable people, we will not allow politicians with selfish agendas to divide us,” Ngare said. She said Mboko is a leader, a woman and a mother and as such, she needs to be respected. “You have shamed us, how dare you allow yourselves to be used to insult your fellow woman and leader?” she asked. “Mboko did not insult anyone, her sentiments were very clear and not directed to any leader in particular. The fact remains, Nassir will be our next governor and Mombasa will not accept political rejects.” In her speech during the Mombasa annual Eid Baraza held on Tuesday, Mboko said Mombasa was not a dumping site to accept political rejects. “We have qualified leaders like Nassir who are competent, experienced and can steer Mombasa to greater heights. We don’t need political shenanigans in Mombasa,” Mboko said. In the video, the women accused Mboko of failing to deliver on her mandate since she was elected as Mombasa Woman Representative in 2013 to 2017 when she was elected Likoni MP. Mwanahimisi Bakari refuted the allegations saying they were farfetched and designed to ruin the leader’s reputation. “Our leader is beyond your level to respond to your cheap propaganda, we will defend her,” she said. She refuted the allegations that the MP had failed to deliver saying that her accusers had a personal vendetta with her that’s why they were turning a blind eye to whatever she had done. Her sentiments were echoed by Fatuma Seif who called on their fellow women to respect themselves saying they were going to rally their fellow women across the county to support Nassir to succeed Joho. “Nassir will be our next governor whether you like it or not,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris