New Manchester United manager Erik ten Hag has told the club’s players thy have to come together and ‘co-operate’ if the team are to challenge for top honours. United finished sixth in the Premier League last season, ending their campaign under interim manager Ralf Rangnick with a 1-0 defeat at Crystal Palace. The disappointing season has been accompanied by widespread reports of divisions within the club and the team and a difficult relationship between some of the players and German Rangnick. Dutchman Ten Hag says he expects a different approach under his charge. “Everywhere I was in my career, I have high demands on my players. I expect them to fight and give 100 per cent,” said Ten Hag, who bowed out as Ajax manager by bringing another title to the Amsterdam club. “We have to do better and they have to co-operate. They have to be unified, to form a team, and to battle the opponent,” he said. United will play in the Europa League next season and also face the challenge of trying to catch up with local rivals Manchester City who won the title, finishing 35 points above United. “Of course we are in this moment, the current situation is obviously not that good. It’s a big challenge,” said Ten Hag. “I want to build and construct a team who are battling for each other, who are unified and who will get results. Also we are playing in the Theatre of Dreams. “We want to entertain. But in the end, the intention is to play fantastic football. If we can’t play fantastic football, we still have to win,” he added. Meanwhile, Patrick Vieira said football players, coaches and staff need to be safe at stadiums after the Crystal Palace manager was involved in an altercation with a fan at Goodison Park during a pitch invasion last week. Everton fans invaded the pitch following Dominic Calvert-Lewin’s 85th-minute winner and at the final whistle of their 3-2 victory over Palace which secured their Premier League survival. Vieira was confronted by a fan as he was walking towards the away dressing room after the final whistle. The fan appeared to provoke Vieira, who then kicked him to the ground and had to be led away by other supporters. “I think the Everton incident is bigger than just that incident,” Vieira told reporters after Palace’s 1-0 win over Manchester United on Sunday. “When you look at it in the Premier League, there were a lot of field invasions that can cause trouble. “You don’t know what can happen. As a coach, manager, player or staff we want to be safe in our workplace. “I think there is a big issue on the FA (Football Association) and Premier League’s plate to deal with. Everybody has to take responsibility and see what is the best way for those things not to happen.” The FA said it is investigating incidents of fans invading the field. Aston Villa goalkeeper Robin Olsen was attacked as Manchester City fans celebrated their Premier League title win by invading the pitch on Sunday. A Nottingham Forest fan who head-butted Sheffield United captain Billy Sharp during a pitch invasion was jailed for 24 weeks and handed a 10-year football banning order on Thursday.