Clerics have urged politicians to exercise restraint during campaigns to maintain peace ahead of the August 9 polls. They said public spats by politicians are a recipe for divisions in the country and leaders put the interests and peace of the country first. The clerics, led by Bishop David Thagana of Glory Outreach Assembly church, said divisive and confrontational politics will throw the country into turmoil. They spoke on the sidelines of Hearts For Pastors forum at Happy Church in Juja, Kiambu county. The forum was meant to mentor and counsel more than 500 pastors from churches within the region. “We are witnessing heated exchanges between politicians of different political alliances which is slowly creating animosity between their supporters. This is raising the country’s political temperatures and distorting peace," Thagana said. "We are pleading with our politicians to avoid making utterances or engaging in political wars that would disrupt the country’s peace and tranquillity.” He said it is disheartening to witness reputable politicians in the country spewing vitriol against each other at podiums and rallies. “We are tired of seeing our leaders taking jibes and maligning each other in public. We want them to bring their agendas that are helpful to Kenyans instead of the insults and smear campaigns,” Thagana said. He said the country is yet to recover from the effects of Covid-19 pandemic that destroyed the country’s economy. “We are pleading with the politicians to conduct their campaigns in a peaceful and decent manner and in a way they won't incite Kenyans against each other," Thagana said. "All candidates should be ready to concede should they lose and if they have to complain, they should use the right channels, including seeking mediation from pastors." The clergymen urged authorities mandated to tame hate-mongering and chaos, including the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), to crack the whip and tame rogue politicians. “We do not want to see incidents of bloodshed during the campaigns and electioneering period. We want peace to prevail, and the relevant authorities mandated to maintain sanity in our country should move with speed and avert such incidences," Rev Phyllis Wangechi said. The cleric also cautioned youth against being misused by politicians to cause fracas as they (politicians) seek to make their selfish political ends meet. “Don’t sell your future and your lives to politicians with bribes. It is high time youths in our country rise to the occasion and make informed and wise decisions by supporting visionary leaders who have the best interests of our country at heart,” Thagana said. Edited by A.N