An envoy nominee told Members of Parliament that she has no blood ties with the Kenyatta family. Margaret Shava, who was nominated for Netherlands ambassador, denied claims that she is President Uhuru Kenyatta's niece. "I want to say that I have no relationship whatsoever with the President, whom I respect so much and my clan can attest to that," Shava said. The nominee, who serves in the International Criminal Court budget and finance committee, said she'll resign from other duties, if successfully approved. "I will have to resign, go through the proper documentation," she said. Shava added that she only receives allowances and no salary for the position she holds at ICC. "I have personal skills in diplomacy, through my profession as a lawyer and I believe am suitable for that position," she said. Born and raised in Nairobi, the lawmakers wanted to know how Shava would impact the farming relationship with Netherlands. "I have seen you are born in Nairobi and you are practicing lawyer. Law has nothing to do with farming, do you think you have been posted to the wrong place?"MP Memusi Kanchori asked. Kanchori gave an example of dairy products which he said is the greatest import from Netherlands. He wanted to know how Shava would ensure Kenya's products match those of Netherlands. "What kind of knowledge do you think you'll bring from Netherlands that will ensure healthy competition?" he asked. Shava clarified that she is also a dairy farmer, a position she did not indicate in her curriculum vitae. "I will try to understand what the situation is in regard to trade barriers so that the trade can go both ways," she said Shava further added that the balance of trade between Kenya and Netherlands currently favours Kenya. "What we will try to address is the volumes, if you look at global trade, Kenyan impact on exports is 0.03 and 0.09 on imports," she said. Another nominee, retired Major General Andrew Ikenye was questioned about his suitability for the diplomat role. MP Charles Kilonzo said diplomatic roles mostly require friendly individuals with strong inter personal skills. Kilonzo said the skills are not common with his former profession. Ikenye defended his quest saying his position allowed him to interact with different people. "In my capacity I was able to look at national interests, the point of relationships and where we differ," Ikenye said. If successfully approved, Ikenye will replace former MP Paddy Ahenda. (Edited by Tabnacha O)