Former UNCTAD secretary-general Mukhisa Kituyi has taken a swipe at ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi saying his decorum has diminished since he joined Kenya Kwanza. In a thinly-veiled attack laced with mockery, Kituyi said Mudavadi's political decency has waned since he crossed over to the Deputy President William Ruto-led outfit. "When Musalia joined Ruto's team, I thought people like (MP Oscar) Sudi would tone down on their remarks because he would help them," Kituyi said. He cited as an example claims by the Kapseret MP that President Uhuru Kenyatta is responsible for the surge in fuel prices, a situation he says is major as a result of the war in Ukraine. "I thought Musalia would tell Sudi 'don't expose our ignorance. This is a result of the war." "After Musalia going there (in Kenya Kwanza) instead of Sudi adopting Musalia's language, it's Musalia who is speaking like Sudi," Kituyi said. He spoke during the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya campaign forum at Sosa Cottage in Vihiga County on Wednesday. The event was attended by Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga and members of his campaign secretariat, elected leaders and aspirants of Azimio constituent parties. Rising fuel prices have contributed to the high cost of living in Kenya with prices of basic commodities like cooking oil hitting the roof. The Amani National Congress party boss has consistently slammed the government over how it has handled the fuel crisis in the country. Mudavadi in particular told President Uhuru Kenyatta to desist from blaming his deputy for the harsh economic times facing Kenyans. This was after the president attacked the DP in his Labour Day speech for allegedly abandoning him. Mudavadi said the buck stops with the head of state. “You cannot stand up and tell the nation that prices of commodities have gone up because the DP is not with you," Mudavadi said. But Mukhisa faulted the ANC boss for adopting that line of argument over an issue he said was out of the president's control. He further laughed off Mudavadi's claims that he and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula will manage to deliver 70 per cent of the Western Kenya vote to Kenya Kwanza. He said he was Mudavadi's presidential campaign manager in 2013 where he helped him garner 400,000 votes, 300,000 of which came from the Bukusu subtribe. "So, if he promises that he is going to get 70 per cent of Luhya land and he could not get 20 per cent of Maragoli, what does he mean," Kituyi posed. The Kenya Kwanza pre-election pact has reportedly put a demand on Musalia and Wetangula to deliver 70 per cent of the Mulembe nation vote for Ruto in exchange for 30 per cent of the government should the DP win the presidency. But in a recent campaign rally in Kiambu County, Mudavadi said they will go beyond and deliver 90 per cent of the Luhya vote for Kenya Kwanza in the August 9 polls.