Garissa Senator Abdul Mohamed Haji has urged residents to give him a chance to serve them again, saying he will not disappoint. He said he is up to the task and will discharge his duties the best way possible. Haji spoke at the Garissa University on Tuesday after being cleared by the IEBC to defend his seat. The senator took over from his deceased father Yussuf Haji in March last year. He said he had used the one year to familiarise himself with his duties and how best to perform them. Haji has been endorsed by his Samawadhal clan that is predominant in Ijara subcounty to be the community’s sole candidate. In terms of clan matrix, the Samawadhal are the swing votes. The community has subsequently entered into an agreement with the Awlihan community, in a bid to balance the clan equation and win the county seats. In the arrangement former governor Nathif Jama was fronted by his community for the seat of governor, while the Sawamdahal were also given the deputy governor seat. Deputy governor Abdi Dagane was fronted by the elders to deputise Jama. Governor Ali Korane hails from the Awdhaq community. Haji welcomed the clan backing, which is a common practice in Northeastern. He said it has not only helped in uniting various communities residing in different counties but also ensured that inclusivity is achieved. The senator however said his community’s alliance with that of Jama’s clan will not prevent him from performing his oversight role. “As a community, we have our own ways of getting leaders and negotiated democracy is one of them. However, I want to assure residents of Garissa that I will be at the forefront, criticising the governor and pinpointing wrongs if and when they happen. "My assurance to the residents is that there will be no squabbles. We can also correct each other in a very mature manner,” he said. Haji further said residents should remain peaceful and call out any politician with the intention of inciting them to violence. “We are a peace loving county and I will be at the forefront in ensuring that peace is upheld at all times before, during and after polls. The police should be on the lookout for politicians and any individual out to incite our people to violence,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)