Kenya sevens head coach Damian McGrath has said the team has to improve their skillset ahead of the final three legs of the World Sevens Series, the Commonwealth Games and the World Cup. The Englishman, who was appointed last week following the sacking of Innocent Simiyu after a run of disastrous results, said the team will have to make adjustments in the weeks and months to come. "I have to admit our skills are poor. My reputation has always been built on doing the basics very well and if we can get the basics to go with the flair and the nature of the Kenyan players, I hope that we can have some success,” said McGrath. McGrath said the team has the potential to be world-beaters. "There is so much potential in this team. When I was coaching Germany, I was watching their matches on the world circuit and it was difficult to play against them. The players have what it takes to shine on the global stage. We just need to make some adjustments,” he added. He said it was an easy decision to take the Kenya Sevens job. "I was approached a week ago to take up the job. It was an easy decision for me... I did not think twice. Kenya bring excitement to the World Seven Series and I am delighted to be associated with them." McGrath will take a back seat for the next two legs of the World Seven Series— in Toulouse, France next weekend and the London Sevens on May 28-29. His assistant Kevin Wambua will be in charge. McGrath has over 30 years experience of coaching with Samoa, Germany, Canada among teams he has managed while he also been an assistant coach of the England Sevens team. Meanwhile, Nondies Ben Salem and Blak Bald winger Archadius Kwesa have been called up to the squad for the Toulouse and London Sevens tournaments. Augustine Lugonzo is set to make a return to the series after a lengthy absence alongside Alvin Otieno,  Timothy Mmasi and Johnstone Olindi, who missed the previous two events. Bush Mwale, Herman Humwa, Edmund Anya, Billy Odhiambo,  Tony Omondi and skipper Nelson Oloo have all been retained. Kenya 7s will face Olympic champions Fiji, hosts France and Wales in Pool B matches.