Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga has rubbished DP William Ruto’s land acquisition plan. Speaking on Saturday in Kiminini, the ODM leader said that the plan is a plot by Ruto to steal money from the government. “This is part of the trickery being used to con Kenyans. The Azimio administration will settle all landless in this country without forceful acquisition of land belonging to private citizens,” Raila said. He said it was reckless for Ruto to continue playing with the minds of the very same Kenyans whom he had made poor through plundering of their economic livelihoods. The former Prime minister spoke as he condoled with the family of former Minister Burudi Nabwera. He also pledged to promote the Kitale County Referral Hospital to a level six hospital and have the remaining sub county hospitals promoted to level five hospitals. Other leaders who spoke during the funeral service eulogised mama Tabitha as a God fearing public servant who was committed to providing of good quality healthcare to Kenyans. Defense Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa hit out at the Deputy President for hoodwinking Kenyans with his false promise of forceful acquisition of land at the coast and other regions. On Thursday, DP Ruto vowed to end the problem of squatters at the Coast to enable them own land. Ruto said just like the Jubilee government did in other parts of the country by setting aside one million acres for resettlement, Kenya Kwanza will factor in funds for a similar programme. “Just like we did in the Rift Valley and other regions we are going to have funds for one million acres of land to subdivide to the residents,” he said in Likoni on Thursday. “It cannot be possible that after 50 years since Independence we still have people without proper places to settle in.” He cited the Waitiki land that the state bought from the owner, Evanson Jidraph Kamau, for Sh1 billion. The former premier was accompanied with a host of other leaders including Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), and James Ongwae (Kisii). Former Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya, MPS Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache), as well as former cabinet ministers Mukhisa Kituyi, Fred Gumo and Noah Wekesa.