The construction of the Bus Rapid Transport Line 5, along Outer Ring road is set to begin in June 2023. This is after the Kenya Urban Roads Authority last week awarded a Sh583 million consultancy contract to a Korean consortium, led by Kunhwa engineering company. The company is expected to undertake a detailed engineering design, provide assistance during identification of the contractor, construction supervision and support, during the defects liability period. BRT Line 5, which is also called Nyati, traverses Ridgeways (Kiambu road)-Balozi (Allsops), through Outering to Imara Daima. Kura director general Silas Kinoti said the consultants have the authority’s full cooperation and support for quick realisation of the project. Kinoti spoke during the signing of the contract at Kura headquarters, Barabara Plaza on Saturday. “You have won a very competitive contract and I have confidence in your vast experience. I assure you of our full support. We want this to be the first and fastest BRT to be fully implemented in Nairobi," he said. The director said the BRT Line 5 is one of the most important lines, as all other lines connect to it. Kunhwa project manager Min Kyeong Jeong said the project will be implemented efficiently. He said the team is committed to do whatever is possible for quick set up. The BRT project along Outer Ring road is funded by a loan through the Economic Development Cooperation Fund and Export-Import Bank of Korea. BRT is part of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan, which is being implemented to end vehicular congestion in the CBD. To decongest the city, Namata gazetted five BRT lines, which are in different phases of development. Line 1, Ndovu, runs from Limuru-Kangemi-CBD-Imara Daima-Athi River and Kitengela. Line 2, Simba, runs from Rongai-Bomas-Langata Road-CBD-Ruiru-Thika and Kenol. It is 70 per cent complete and  will be implemented in two pilot phases. Phase one will start from Kasarani to Kenyatta National Hospital while the second phase will begin from Ruiru and terminate at KNH. Line 2 will consist of 13 intermediate stations with 24 platforms. A park-and-ride facility is also being erected at Kasarani. It will enable motorists heading to the CBD to leave their vehicles and use BRT buses for the remainder of the journey. Line 3, Chui, runs from Tala-Njiru-Dandora (Juja road)-CBD-Show Ground (Ngong road) and Ngong. Line 4, Kifaru, comprises of East and West. The East one runs from Mama Lucy Hospital-Donholm (Jogoo road)-CBD. The West one runs from CBD- T Mall-Bomas-Karen and Kikuyu. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)