Former Football Kenya Federation chairman Sam Nyamweya has allayed fears that some members of the newly-constituted Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee are out to capitalise on the current impasse to advance personal interests. In a press release on Sunday, Nyamweya alleged that some unidentified members of the committee had hatched a plot to grab power through the back door in cahoots with delegates drawn from the FKF branches across the country. “It is clear that some members of the Transition Committee and some self-seeking personalities who have in the past shown interest in using the backdoor to run Kenyan football have been misleading the FKF branch officials to form an Interim Committee to take over the running of football,” Nyamweya said. During a meeting held at the Kasarani Sportsview Hotel in Nairobi on March 26, 44 delegates invoked the FKF Constitution to revoke the powers of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and thereafter wrote to the beleaguered FKF CEO Barry Otieno detailing their plan to form an ad-hoc committee. Nyamweya has now dismissed their intentions as unlawful and inconsequential. “There is no provision in the FKF statutes that allows for the formation of an Interim Committee by the branches and any thought of this must be stopped forthwith,” Nyamweya said, adding that such a move was bound to attract more problems. “The only solution we have is to support the CS (Amina Mohamed) to work with Fifa and appoint a Normalisation Committee which will organise and set a roadmap for fresh elections right from grassroots,” he quipped. “There is no shortcut to sorting our football mess and we must be ready to go the whole nine yards. Any effort to manipulate this process will lead us back to where our problems started and history will judge us harshly." He called on stakeholders to respect the position taken by the government in resolving the standoff. “To bring back sanity, we must support the process the government is following, work with Fifa and all stakeholders, set up a Normalisation Committee and agree on a framework for fresh elections under both the Sports Act and Fifa statutes," he observed. “We want a process that brings together all stakeholders from the grassroots to branch and County Football Associations including all active clubs in the country and not a few people charting us through a path of fresh anarchy in our game. It is time the views of each and every stakeholder is taken into account,” Nyamweya said. In an earlier exclusive interview on May 11, Nyamira Branch FKF chairman Luthers Mokua refuted claims they harboured sinister motives. “If anything, we are eager to support the government's efforts and we have stated that as part of the day's agenda,” Mokua said. Mokua said they were acting in their capacity as the General Assembly which is still in existence despite the government's decision to disband FKF.