A case in which blogger Robert Alai is charged with causing grievous harm to singer Alex Apoko, popularly known as Ringtone, has been pushed to June 23. Ringtone's lawyer Evans Ondieki, who arrived in court in a wheelchair, regretted that the case was postponed without prior notice. "We have really struggled before we arrived in this court and we were ready to proceed but it is really really sad," he told the court on Monday. “I'm personally ill but I have made it to the court. It is sad that the prosecution failed to inform us that the case would not proceed." Ondieki urged the court to grant the last adjournment so that the case can proceed on the next date. According to the court documents, Alai is accused of causing grievous harm to musician Alex Apoko, popularly known as Ringtone, in July 2020. Alai was charged before Kibera senior principal magistrate Phillip Mutua in August 2021, where he denied the charges. The court warned Alai against commenting on the case on social media either directly or through proxies. Alai was charged with a second count of damaging Ringtone's windscreen, valued at Sh416,000. He denied both the charges and was released on Sh1 million bond or a cash bail of Sh300,000. Speaking at the Kibera court, Alex Apoko, the musician said that he was ready to testify in the case for justice to prevail. Alai was arrested and detained at Kilimani police station on allegations of beating Ringtone with a wooden club. Officials said the two accused each other of obstruction in a scuffle that began on Oloitoktok Road and spread to Dennis Pritt and Likoni roads. Alai was accused of hitting Ringtone’s car at a roundabout on Oloitoktok Road. Although the genesis of the drama remains unclear, several videos showed what is believed to be Alai’s car blocking the musician’s car. At University Way, Ringtone was seen atop his Ranger Rover when Alai came out of his Subaru with a wooden club. Ringtone was heard accusing Alai of taking the law into his own hands. “Kwa nini umenipiga…haijalishi…kubeba sheria kwa mkono (Why have you beaten me…it does not matter…taking the law into your own hands),” Ringtone said.