Council of East and Central Africa Football Association (Cecafa) women's club champions Vihiga Queens want the current Football Kenya Federation impasse sorted out to enable them to defend their title in August this year. The country is currently suspended from all football competitions by the world football governing body, Fifa following the government's move to disband FKF about six months ago. In February, Fifa asked the Kenyan government to revoke their decision to disband FKF as part of their conditions to have the country re-admitted to international competitions. With the second edition of the Cecafa qualifiers set for August in Tanzania, Vihiga are still groping in the dark after the deadline for federations to submit names of clubs that will represent them in this year's showpiece elapsed on Sunday. Vihiga Queens' chief executive officer, Mike Senelwa, said they have not yet received communication from the relevant authorities and their only focus at the moment is to finish the league season in the next fortnight. "Nobody has addressed the club in regard to Champions League. The club has no obligation to address or discuss international assignments without the go-ahead from the federation," Senelwa categorically stated. The country's football is currently being run by the Transition Committee that was appointed by Sports Cabinet Secretary, Dr. Amina Mohamed. The committee came into place after the six-period for the Caretaker Committee elapsed. The Transition Committee led by Ringera will be in office for five weeks. Queens' coach Boniface Nyamunyamu said it will be virtually impossible for Vihiga to take part in the Cecafa competition under current conditions unless a Normalization Committee is formed. "We are staring at the possibility of a ban if a Normalization Committee is not put in place. We, however, have our fingers crossed and believe the Transition Committee will pave way for the Normalisation Committee to be created. A lot is bound to happen from now until August so we'll wait and see, "Nyamunyamu noted. Vihiga wrapped up the Kenya Women's Premier League title with four matches to spare. Last year the western-based side beat Ethiopia's Commercial  Bank in the regional qualifiers 2-1 in the final to win Cecafa's crown. Morocco will host the Unaf qualifiers in August, featuring Afak Relizane (Algeria), Wadi Degla (Egypt), Housing Bank (Tunisia), and the reigning Unaf club champions ASFAR (Morocco) Cosafa's Mamelodi Sundowns of South Africa beat Ghana's Hasaacas Ladies 2-0 to lift the inaugural trophy in Egypt last year.