Members of the Public Relations Society of Kenya (PRSK) have new officials for the position of president, treasurer and assistant secretary. The new team elected over the weekend during the Annual General Meeting will be joining other council members to lobby for the enactment of the Institute of Public Relations and Communications Management (IPRAC) Bill into law. Arik Karani from the Wikimedia Foundation was elected President taking over the mantle from Wilfred Marube, the Chief Executive Officer of the Kenya Export Promotion and Branding Agency. Lafarge’s Viviene Atieno was elected Assistant Secretary, while Samuel Karanja from Hill + Knowlton Strategies was elected as Treasurer. Speaking during the handover ceremony held in Nairobi, Marube said he was confident Karani “will steer the PRSK ship to greatness and finally deliver the long-awaited legislation.” Karani stated that society has been at the forefront of enhancing professionalism, respect and standards in the PR and Communications industry in Kenya and the journey will not stop. “It is my vision to push for the legislation of PRSK from society into an institution so that we can enhance the delivery of professional public relations services in Kenya. He added that members are yearning for the passage of the Institute of Public Relations and Communication Management (IPRAC) Bill into law. In a statement from Dublin, Ireland, the President and CEO of the Global Alliance for Public Relations Justin Green expressed his delight at the appointment of Karani terming it a “gamechanger” in the industry in Kenya and in Africa. “With Karani’s global network and vast experience, Kenya will be at the forefront of leading and shaping Africa’s PR and Communications narrative. He is a fierce, creative, and innovative leader,” he added. Green also urged the Kenyan lawmakers, and the Ministry of ICT to support the enactment of the IPRAC Bill when it is tabled in Parliament. He pledged to work with Karani and PRSK to strengthen the communication industry in Kenya and Africa through innovative solutions. Yomi Badejo-Okusanya, the President of the Africa Public Relations Association(APRA) said: “The African Public Relations Association (APRA) is most delighted with the election of Arik Karani as the President of PRSK. The newly elected leaders will be joining other Council members, Patricia Odede (Vice President), Noella Mutanda (Secretary), Tim Kamuzu Banda (Council Member), Jesse Masaai (Council Member) and Paul Oyier (Council Member). It is expected that the leadership will support the current CEO to roll out a certification programme