More than a third of women miss out on opportunities for family planning and counselling when they visit health facilities within the first five months after giving birth. This is according to research findings by a team of local experts led by Prof Peter Gichangi and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation published in the BMC Public Health, open access Journal. The study analysed cross-sectional household survey data from 11 counties in Kenya between 2014 and 2018 involving 34,832 women aged 15-49 years from the households visited by the research teams. The 11 counties include Bungoma, Kakamega, Kericho, Kiambu, Kilifi, Kitui, Nairobi, Nandi, Nyamira, Siaya and West Pokot. The findings show that a woman in Kericho, Kilifi, Nairobi, Nandi and West Pokot is more likely to miss out on family planning opportunities and counselling than her counterpart in Bungoma. According to the findings, missed opportunities for family planning and counselling increased with increasing duration, with data showing an increase from 46.8 per cent between zero to five months to 53.2 per cent at 12 to 23 months post-delivery. “When compared to urban residents, rural residents were more likely to have a missed opportunity for FP/C counselling,” it states. “Those with some level of formal education were less likely to have a missed opportunity for FP/C counselling when compared to the reference group of women with no education,” it adds. The findings show that women in the higher wealth quintiles were less likely to have a missed opportunity for FP/C counselling when compared to women from the lowest wealth quintile. Of the 34,832 women aged 15 - 49 years interviewed, 10.9 per cent (3,803) and 10.8 per cent (3,746) were in the period zero – 11 months and 12 – 23 months postpartum respectively, of whom, 38.8 and 39.6 per cent respectively, had their previous pregnancy unintended. According to the experts, even though Kenya has made tremendous progress at the national level to increase the uptake of modern contraceptives from 39.4 per cent in 2008/9 to 53.2 per cent in 2014 and to 60.8 per cent in 2018, addressing missed opportunities could increase uptake further. “Women who had three to four previous births were less likely to have a missed opportunity for FP/C counselling at the facility when compared to women with one or two past births,” it states. In the recent past, the Government of Kenya has continued to increase the amount of resources allocated to the FP strategic commodities. Family planning was fully funded by the Kenyan government before health services were devolved. However, donors moved in when the new county governments failed to allocate money for the same since 2013. “The major indicators of enhanced family planning is the availability of sufficient commodities when and where they are required so in essence we are basically saying that we are on the right trajectory,” Health PS Susan Mochache said at a past meeting. In Kenya, the number of children per every woman has been falling, while the uptake of contraception rises. The contraceptive prevalence among married women has increased from 46 per cent 10 years ago to 58 per cent today to 64 per cent by 2030 as articulated in the FP 2030 recommitments.