The cold season is a wake-up call to dress warmly, without forgetting to remain classy. For women, it is hard to get an outfit that ensures you are both classy and warm. Some tips for staying include the choice of material, it should be heavy and one that retains heat. Due to weather changes, one is also advised to dress up in a set of clothes that can be adjusted. This means, in case it was rainy and cold in the morning then at noon it becomes hot, you can still adapt. For example, you can wear a short-sleeved dress or T-shirt inside a heavy cotton kimono sweater. SWEATER DRESS, STOCKINGS A sweater dress comes in handy because they are heavy so there's a lot of heat retention. However, instead of wearing a below-the-knee dress, one can work with a shorter sweater dress. Alternatively, wear a shirt dress then add a pair of stockings to shield your legs from the cold. If the sweater dress or shirt dress is short-sleeved, you can add a leather jacket. This look does not go well with a kimono, it needs a top sweater that only reaches the waist. When it comes to the choice of shoes that go well with this look one can wear tall boots or thigh-high socks. HEAVY KIMONO AND DRESS If you're wearing a kimono with a dress, make sure the dress is shorter than the kimono. But for the cold season, maintain a pair of shoes that will ensure your feet are warm. This could be closed or boot heels that have a closing knot either at the back or the front. However, if it is rainy, then it could be challenging to walk with stiletto heels, so one can wear block heels. The shoes should not be knee-high and the length should remain short, around the feet. Kimonos can also be worn with skirts of all lengths, with heavy material skirts. Then the top could be a pull-neck T-shirt. PULL NECK, BLAZER AND SKIRT Pull neck dresses and T-shirts are very convenient for the cold season due to the nature of the neckline. If the skirt is way above the knees, then you can add a pair of stockings. If not, just wear it with a pair of sneakers, rubbers or flat boots. To enhance the warmth, add a blazer that goes well with the choice of colours.