The Gurreh community has endorsed Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali's re-election bid. The governor was endorsed at a meeting held in Moyale on Thursday. It was attended by thousands of elders, youth, women and businesspeople. The community praised Governor Ali for the various development projects he has initiated in the county since 2017. Community members say he has done well in his first term and deserves another chance to accomplish his agenda for the county. They cited infrastructural development, health reform, job creation, county scholarships and youth and women's empowerment, among other initiatives. On scholarships, more than 1, 500 needy students have benefitted in the last four years. While thanking the elders and the community for believing in his ability and for endorsing him for a second term, Governor Ali said their goodwill would propel him to work harder. "What happened today can only motivate me and my team, to whom I owe all the success," he said. The governor promised to continue providing good leadership by initiating projects that have an impact to the community. The UDM deputy party leader urged residents to support his political partners, saying no tribe or community can form a government on their own. Ali said political trust is needed in the formation of government. He assured the Gurreh community that Boranas will vote for their daughter, former Marsabit Woman Representative Nasra Ibren. The governor called for political tolerance and urged leaders to embrace democracy. "Let's respect other people's opinions. We should not divide people along tribal or political lines," Ali said. He also drummed up support for Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga, saying he will transform the country. In January this year, the Borana council of elders and professionals endorsed Governor Ali in a meeting attended by representatives from 17 clans. Elders in northern Kenya are mandated to give political direction to ensure stability. The candidate they endorse in most cases wins the election. Mandera Governor Ali Roba emphasised the need for leaders to be at the forefront in fostering unity and harmonious coexistence. He said political differences should not be allowed to become an impediment to peace and stability. The governor said leaders have a role to play in ensuring residents live in peace irrespective of their tribal or political affiliation. The UDM party leader drummed up support for Marsabit governor's re-election and urged residents to support Raila. Edited by A.N