Muslims for Human Rights organisation has partnered with IEBC to educate voters in Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi. During the five-day drive, residents will be educated on the importance of voter detail verification, mass voting and peaceful elections. The exercise is being carried out under the Kenya Electoral Conflict Mitigation and Civic/Voter Education Support programme sponsored by USAID. Muhuri programmes officer Fredrick Ogado said they are mainly targeting youth because they are vulnerable and mostly misused by politicians to cause violence at political rallies. "We are sensitising young men against chaos and that they should participate in the electoral process," he said. Ogado said since the youth form the largest percentage of the Kenyan population, they have great influence in determining the outcome of elections. He said the programme is designed to transform youth into ambassadors of peace rather than perpetrators of violence. The officer said communities are also being educated on the importance of good governance through electing the right leaders. Ogado said they are enlightening residents on the consequences of choosing the wrong leaders who abandon them immediately after the elections. He said as a rights organisation, they do not support the election of leaders with questionable integrity. The officer said when bad people get elective posts, they become doom of development and bring disunity that threatens the national peace. Ogado said they are urging authorities and residents to scrutinise the candidates carefully before making a decision on the ballot paper. "We are asking people to vote wisely," he said. Msambweni IEBC officer Marita Ombeto said the board is keen to ensure all those cleared to run for elective seats have met the necessary requirements. He urged residents to verify their voter registration details. The voter verification drive started on May 4 and will continue for the next 30 days. Ombeto said the exercise is crucial as it will enable Kenyans to make corrections early enough to prevent inconveniences during polling day. Most elections are always marred by missing names on the voter register. "Let's take advantage of this period to verify our names before it is too late," he said. Edited by A.N