Bayern Munich manager Julian Nagelsmann said his title-winning side must consider “the badge on our chest” after a 3-1 defeat at Mainz. Bayern, who sealed a 10th consecutive Bundesliga crown last week, were well beaten on a day where Mainz also hit the woodwork four times. “I think we always need a certain basic passion in our game, which we didn’t have today,” said Nagelsmann. “There are too many defeats, too many in the same manner.” The 34-year-old added: “To not go to the limit in every situation is human after the tenth title in a row, but we still wear the badge on our chest.” Bayern’s 3-1 win over second-placed Borussia Dortmund last week sealed the title in emphatic style. But here Germany Under-21 striker Jonathan Burkardt and French defender Moussa Niakhate gave ninth-placed Mainz an early 2-0 lead after exploiting holes in Bayern’s defence. Robert Lewandowski rolled in his 34th Bundesliga goal this season for Bayern before half-time, then Leandro Barreiro struck Mainz’s third just after the break via a wicked deflection. Meanwhile, VfL Bochum scored twice in the final nine minutes, including an 85th-minute penalty through Milos Pantovic, to snatch a 4-3 victory at Borussia Dortmund in the Bundesliga on Saturday and make sure they stay up. The result kept Dortmund a point short of securing second spot with two games remaining, with the Ruhr valley club in second place on 63, eight ahead of third-placed Bayer Leverkusen, who host Eintracht Frankfurt on Monday. Sensational Freiburg are also on 55 after climbing to fourth following their thrilling 4-3 win at Hoffenheim. RB Leipzig, who are fifth on 54, travel to Borussia Moenchengladbach on Monday. The top four teams qualify for next season's Champions League group stage. Bayern Munich, who secured their 10th straight league title last week, are on 75 following their 3-1 loss to Mainz 05. In a seven-goal, drama-filled encounter Erling Haaland scored a hat-trick to carry Dortmund from 2-0 down to lead 3-2. Visitors Bochum got off to a dream start in their local derby and were 2-0 up by the eighth minute thanks to goals from Sebastian Polter and Gerrit Holtmann. The hosts quickly recovered and pulled a goal back with Haaland's 16th-minute penalty. The Norwegian was far from done and he bagged his second with another spot kick on the half-hour mark. The 21-year-old thought he had completed their comeback with a tap-in and a lucky bounce in the 62nd but Bochum came back once more, levelling though Juergen Locadia in the 81st and Pantovic's penalty for their first win at Dortmund since 1998.