Public Service CS Margret Kobia has praised a refugee program that seeks to help communities in Fafi, Lagdera, Dadaab, Wajir South and Turkana West Sub-counties. Addressing the public at Daadab on Tuesday, Kobia said the project's Community Driven approach presented opportunities which may be considered in developing national policies. The project was started in 2017 to help improve the livelihood of the communities in the camps that have hosted refugees for 30 years. It seeks to minimise negative impacts of refugee presence in the communities. “This is one of the projects in the country that enjoys enormous political goodwill, community participation and involvement in its implementation processes," Kobia said. Kobia said it was a proof that communities can identify their needs, monitor, supervise and participate fully in the decision making on their development initiatives. She was accompanied by Garissa County leaders;  Mohamed Dahiye (Daadab), Abdikarim Osman (Fafi) and Mohamed Hire (Lagdera). The leaders acknowledged the importance of the Kenya Development Response to Displacement Impact Project in transforming the lives of their constituents. Petroleum CS John Munyes and Turkana West MP Daniel Nanok said the project has helped stabilise the relationship between local communities and refugees. They asked the state to start another phase of the project so as to support more of other emerging development needs saying it was 'a model that needs to be given serious consideration by development policymakers.' “I wish we had this project 20 years ago. It is addressing the development needs of our people and has helped to reduce inter-communal conflicts arising from scarcity of water,”Munyes said. The leaders said the project has also led to improved  health facilities and development of school infrastructure. Wajir County Governor Ahmed Mukhtar said the county has benefitted from the project and vowed to support it to conclusion. The World Bank's project team leader Matt Stevens visited the Lagdera project and said community projects was on course to achieving its objectives. “We want to see if the communities have the capacity to make decisions and manage the projects. We also want to know they have the knowledge, skills and confidence needed to implement the project,” Stevens said speaking to the media. It has been implemented in Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, Somalia and Djibouti. The Kenyan KDRDIP is funded by a World Bank loan of Sh10 billion and Sh800 million from the Danish International Development Association. The Project National Coordinator Anne Kinyua said the funds were distributed among 137 villages, which covers 29 wards of the five aforementioned sub-counties in the three project counties. "The project was designed to benefit a combined population of over one million members of the host communities and 400,000 refugees,' Kinyua said. Kinyua added that in the last three years, Sh7.4 billion was spent to develop infrastructure and livelihoods in the targeted areas.