Suspended National Land Commission boss Tom Aziz Chavangi has rubbished a report by a parliamentary watchdog panel as inconclusive. Chavangi said the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee indicted him before receiving the final submission from him as requested by the committee. The Opiyo Wandayi-led panel had in its 2018-2019 reports recommended that Chavangi and ex-top commission officials be barred from holding any public office over Sh215 million loss of taxpayers' money. However, Chavangi defended himself saying the powerful committee failed to honour its promise for a final session with him to receive crucial evidence that he said exonerates him. “Unfortunately, the committee went ahead to make far-reaching recommendations on me before they would allow me to make my final submissions,” he said. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Chavangi said the committee failed the test on the rule of natural justice by denying him an opportunity to make ultimate submissions on the issues. “There is no way the committee would have gone ahead to render a ban on me from holding any public office yet the report is inconclusive and incomplete without my responses,” he said. The former NLC boss vowed to mount a legal challenge against the report which he said was part of an elaborate conspiracy to deny him his job. He said the committee was using the Land Valuation Index Act of 2019, which was not applicable at the time when the alleged payments were made. The damning report indicates the Sh215 million transaction was done in total breach of directives by the Lands principal secretary in an August 1, 2018 letter. However, Chavangi said the Lands PS had no authority to direct the commission on any compensation. “If I honoured that, then what it means is that I would be taking illegal directions which is contrary to the law,” Chavangi said. The PS had asked for the re-valuation of any compensation whose variance following a joint NLC and ministry valuation exceeded 20 per cent of the value of the land. The letter also authorised the commission to pay compensation with less than 20 per cent variance. Chavangi was suspended following his arrest in 2018 on suspicion of corruption over land allocation for the Nairobi-Mombasa standard gauge railway. In its report, the panel said NLC paid out Sh215, 622,898 compensation without harmonised valuations saying the decision was not only irregular but also improper. The report also recommended that former NLC chairperson Muhammad Swazuri and ex-director Salome Munubi be banned from holding any public office. “Accordingly, the committee recommends that Tom Aziz Chavangi, Muhammad Swazuri and Salome Munubi be barred permanently from holding public office,” read the report.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris