Deputy President William Ruto has promised to overhaul the current Jubilee government procurement regime to ensure security-related tenders are not shrouded in secrecy. The Kenya Kwanza presidential aspirant said he will start radical changes in the Office of the President so that the purchase of guns and other security hardware is done transparently. The DP warned that the current scenario where the purchase of security-related equipment is regarded as a sensitive national security procurement is prone to abuse and massive corruption. Ruto, who spoke during an interview with the Evangelical Alliance of Kenya, said corruption is thriving in government especially in the buying of national security equipment. “A gun which a police officer carries on the streets, and which is supposed to be bought at Sh20,000, is going at Sh60,000? I have been against this. It is in these security things where corruption thrives.” The DP was responding to questions on how he will tackle corruption if elected president in the August general election. Ruto also said once he takes oath of office, he will engineer radical operational changes to give the Inspector General of police financial autonomy in the security sector. “Once I take over office, I will appoint an accounting officer to the IG with a budget so that the office is not dependent on the Office of the President,” he said. The DP further said there have been concerted efforts by some people to deny the IG's office financial muscle with the aim of misusing the office for personal reasons. He alleged the office has been hijacked to help politicians pursue a political agenda. The DP, who has been accused of failing to provide concrete proposals on how to tackle corruption if elected president, said he will aggressively pursue economic inclusivity through his bottom-up model. Ruto said his economic approach will deal with poverty by availing opportunities to uplift the millions of Kenyans at the bottom of the social pyramid. “The greatest responsibility we have now is to rework the economy to create opportunities that will help us achieve greater inclusivity,” Ruto told the church. As part of his approach to achieve economic emancipation, the deputy president said he will reconfigure the Big Four Agenda to create additional jobs for the struggling jobless Kenyans if elected president. Ruto said the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga suffocated the Big Four Agenda grand plan that would have created millions of jobs. He further said before the housing project was bungled allegedly after the handshake and BBI 'reggae', investors had committed up to Sh4 trillion from people who acknowledged the project's viability. As part of his plan to change the lives of Kenyans whom he said have been impoverished for long, the DP promised to roll out the Universal Health Care for all. He said the UHC programme will take effect three months after assuming office. Ruto, who said many families are currently struggling to raise funds to defray medical bills, said his ambitious UHC programme will transform healthcare and make medical access affordable. He also said the implementation of the Ndung'u Report on land and the Truth and Justice Reconciliation Committee report will not be a priority in his government but "enablers of his agenda." On the aspect of addressing the insecurity affecting the country, Ruto promised to give police, not just hardware and human resource capability, but also support to deal firmly with criminals. He said he would achieve this by restructuring the police reservists policy to ensure armed civilians provide the much needed support to deal with criminals causing havoc in Northern Kenya and the North Rift. “What we must make sure is to get value for the resources we deploy. We had a programme of the reservists and we deployed them very well,” Ruto said. The DP asked the church to stop playing 'safe' in the presidential race by trying to be neutral, saying it is time the church took political positions.  (edited by Amol Awuor)