Last year, on a day like this, investors who bought Safaricom Plc's share at an Initial Public Offer (IPO) price of Sh5  had gained eight times after it rose to Sh41.75. The rise in the telco's share was after a Safaricom-led consortium —which includes its South African parent firm Vodacom— won an $850 million (Sh91.7 billion) auction to acquire new telecom operating license in Ethiopia. A Nairobi City County worker Mary Achieng who had bought 2,000 shares in 2008 at Sh10,000 rushed to Suntra Investment to sell her stock that had gained close to Sh72,000. "I was conflicted to sell. My husband was convincing me to wait, hoping that the share could hit Sh50 but my instincts persuaded me otherwise,'' Achieng told the Star. While many like Achieng sold and gained eight times returns, others like Knight Frank's Job Ndung'u boasting of over 10,000 shares at the telco did not, and he is now regretting it. "I hoped that the share could rise further on Ethiopia entry news. The stock market is very unpredictable and disappointing. I hope that things will start looking up,'' Ndung'u said. Yesterday, Safaricom's share traded at Sh26.37 by the time of going to press, having shed 37 per cent in value in just 12 months. Financial analyst Alykhan Satchu terms the fall as dramatic and its impact outsized because it's the widest held to share and the largest market capitalisation stock at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) at about $9 billion (Sh1.05 trillion). ''The retreat can in part be blamed on the macro environment where we have witnessed significant deterioration which has translated into a $4 trillion dollar retreat in the MSCI inc emerging market Index,'' Satchu said in an email response. At a stock-specific level, he suspects investors are reconsidering the Toll Charge that will be exacted around the Ethiopian entry and specifically around the Foreign Exchange challenge. His sentiments are echoed by a Mombasa-based financial expert Mihr Thakar who says the counter is currently undergoing a major sell on a combination of global macro factors and company-specific issues. ''A major shift upwards in borrowing rates is causing investors to shun riskier assets, due to the greater cost of borrowing and assumption of collective sell pressure,'' Thakar told the Star. He adds that the strengthening of the US dollar and the hawkish tilt commencing even with other advanced economies central banks are creating pressure on emerging and frontier market currencies. According to him, there is a fear that the sudden stop to cheap money in an era of highly leveraged entities and exotic debt instruments may cause major cascade-like events such as the Lehman bankruptcy that preceded the global financial crisis. ''Investors have clearly rationalised the progress being made in Ethiopia and the investment is now being viewed less favourably,'' Thakar said. Last week, the telco which accounts for close to 60 per cent of total tradings at NSE said it will be commencing commercial operations in the landlocked country before the end of this financial year. The initial plans to set up the Ethiopian subsidiary saw it incur a financial cost of Sh4.7 billion, pushing down its net earnings for 2021/22 by 1.7 per cent to Sh67.5 billion. This was the second drop in earnings after a nine-year climb that first eased in 2020 when the telco reported a 6.8 per cent drop in earnings to Sh68.67 billion from Sh73.65 billion the previous year. Safaricom's chief Peter Ndegwa downplayed the dropping yields on the company's share during a session with the media, saying the stock market globally has taken a hit from the double tragedy of Covid-19 and the Russia-Ukraine crisis. ''The global stock market is quite uncertain due to a number of factors. At Safaricom, we are always coming up with innovative ways to increase shareholders' value,'' Ndegwa said. The telco claimed at least half of the market wealth a year ago and has been deepening its share of the NSE wealth since then, a dominance that is making it difficult for investors to gauge the performance of the bourse. The latest data by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) puts the telco's control of NSE at 60.3 per cent. Together with KCB Group, Equity Holdings, East Africa Breweries Limited and Cooperative Bank, they control at least 70 per cent of the total tradings at the Nairobi bourse. “Market concentration remains a key risk within the Kenyan capital markets landscape. The top five counters command 74.2 per cent of the market cap. The risk exposure is hence the urgent need for derisking,'' CMA said in the statistical bulletin.