Newly-crowned Boston Marathon champion Evans Chebet says he feels like a shark that has tasted blood and is thirsty for more podium finishes in upcoming marathons. The 2020 Valencia Marathon champion crossed the finish line in the U.S city in 2:06:51 as 2021 Boston Marathon champion Lawrence Cherono (2:07:21) and Benson Kipruto (2:07:27) finished second and third respectively. "The win has motivated me so much for my next road race. I had never envisaged being awarded like this for a feat like this one. My next target is the New York Marathon and the only thing I want is to win and excel in the race. I believe it is possible to win in the World Marathon Majors races if I did it in this one (Boston),"  Chebet said. The 33-year-old is not part of the team to represent Kenya in the marathon races at the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham as well as the World Championship in Oregon. However, Chebet believes he will still have the opportunity to fly the national flag high through the various races he will be competing in this year, worldwide. Top on his to-do list is an appearance at the London Marathon this year, where he believes he is more than capable of stepping into the shoes of world record holder Eliud Kipchoge. "You see, the thing is I want to run at the London Marathon because of its prestigious history. The course is equally interesting and I feel it offers the chance to follow in the footsteps of other great Kenyan runners who have competed in it, such as Eliud (Kipchoge). It would be an absolute dream come true to win the London Marathon and am looking forward to it," Chebet said. The roadrunner has also earmarked the New York Marathon as another race he would like to excel in to cap what he would call a splendid year. Looking back to his win at the Boston Marathon, Chebet described it as a chance to make amends. "In 2018 when I ran in Boston, I did not finish, and this hurt because it is my favourite race. This time I had prepared well because I knew it is a big race that uplifts your name. I also knew there would be elite runners so I had to train hard in advance," he said. The 2019 Buenos Aires Marathon champion was speaking on Wednesday after he was feted as the SJAK/LG Sports Personality of the Month for April. He defeated, among others, Boston Marathon Women’s winner Peres Jepchirchir, rally star Karan Patel — who won the third round of the 2022 FIA African Rally Championship — and Maurine Chepkemoi, who destroyed the course record at the 75th edition of the Enschede marathon in the Netherlands. Chebet described the award as unique to his running career.  "I am so delighted to win my first ever award, it goes a long way in motivating me ahead of my aim of running the Berlin and New York Marathon. I thank LG and SJAK for the kind gesture of remembering athletes, we are grateful," he said. Speaking at the same time, LG East Africa Managing Director Sa Nyoung Kim encouraged sportspersons to emulate Chebet by never giving up in the chase for their dreams. "So, to all sportsmen and women in and out of this place, there is a brighter side waiting for you to show up, find your limits and dare to blow past them," Kim said.