Former Garissa woman representative Shukran Gure has said the incoming government should prioritise addressing the perennial water scarcity. She said it doesn't matter how much money or projects are commissioned to facilitate water delivery. "As long as there are no policies in place, then the problem will always be there." Gure, who spoke on Tuesday in Garissa town, said the county has all kinds of resources to build dams including World Bank and state funding, which allocates more than Sh1.4 billion to the water department annually. “We don't see the results simply because there are no effective policies, to realise these projects,” she said. The former legislator said if elected she will strive to ensure that bills that benefit residents are passed. She said she will work closely with the national and county governments, as both play an integral role in formulation of laws. Gure said the next crop of leaders ought to perform their roles the best way they can. However, activists and residents have in the past blamed the Garissa assembly for failing to pass laws that touch on their lives. The former legislator who has also come under attack for doing little to solve the problem during her tenure said her record was out there for everyone to see. “During my tenure I did what I could, in relation to water in Garissa county. I was a member of environment and water and actively participated in the formation of some of the laws that are governing the sector,” she said. Gure said she also managed to source funding and commission four water pans in Garissa county. “I hope more is done by the incoming administration.” She said she distributed more than 200 water tanks and did numerous water trucking with only one year funding. “This you can refer to NGAAF office 2013-2017. Be it in the office or not, I always did water trucking,” the aspirant said. The former MP said her team is embarking on water trucking at the outskirts of Garissa town. She said it is regrettable that many years after independence, women and daughters still trek long distances in search of water. "This should not be happening in this day and age of devolution." Gure said residents should re-elect her since she knows where the problems are and has experience sorting them out. “With my experience, I will get down to business on the first day. I won't have to waste time learning the office. Maneuvering in a new office can be time consuming,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)