Pressure continues to mount on Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru to resign over their involvement in politics. A youth group calling itself Youth for Kenya Kwanza (YKK22) said on Friday the duo's partisan views on politics dents the credibility of the outcome of the August polls. "Since the two have already decided to be partisan, the best thing to do is to resign and pursue their political rights of voting and campaigning for the candidate of their choice," the group said in a statement read by Omulo Junior. They addressed the press at the ANC party headquarters. Omulo said the youth affiliated with Kenya Kwanza will use peaceful activism and legal means to ensure the two are out of office. Their calls come two days after the UDA party wrote a protest letter to the IEBC demanding the resignation of Mucheru over his involvement in political campaigns. The party alleged that Mucheru could use his technology docket to influence the outcome of the August 9 General Elections. “Certainly, nothing stops the Cabinet Secretary for ICT from resigning in furtherance of his political rights to support a candidate of his choice and allow other able Kenyans to perform his responsibilities as Cabinet Secretary in accordance with the requirements of the law,” UDA secretary-general Veronica Maina said in the letter. Mucheru dismissed the concerns as diversionary utterances. “I’m not running for any office, I have no political ambitions, so I don’t know why they keep focusing on me.” Mucheru stated that the IEBC conducts its affairs independently and that the government only helps the commission deliver credible polls. YKK22 President Samuel Masaki called on the youth who ascribe to the Bottom-up Economic model to safeguard the party's votes on election day. "As we aggressively engage in activities geared towards winning votes of our presidential candidate, William Ruto, and his running mate Rigathi Gachagua, we will take it upon ourselves to ensure all votes cast for our candidates are counted, tallied and accurately reported," he said.