AFC Leopards will put up a gallant fight to halt Gor Mahia's dominance in the Mashemeji derby slated for May 8 at Moi Stadium Kasarani, club honcho Dan Shikanda has said. Leopards are yet to claim Gor's scalp in their last six meetings and the last one ended in a barren draw. K'Ogalo will be hosting Ingwe in the 94th edition of the country's most cherished football showpiece. Shikanda has fired a warning shot to their bitter rivals, telling them to expect a bruising battle in the highly anticipated encounter. The ex-Kenyan international, who had the privilege of featuring for both Gor and Leopards in different editions of the derby during his heydays, said they have been hard at work, sharpening their talons ahead of the titanic battle. "It won't be an easy match. I know a lot of people are tipping us to carry the day given our recent outstanding form,” Shikanda said. Asked to explain why Leopards had played second fiddle to Gor Mahia in recent derbies, Shikanda said their opponents had the advantage of gleaning experience from international matches. “We have been losing to Gor because they have for a long time participated and gained a lot of experience from their continental assignments while we have been confined to local matches due to our poor form,” Shikanda said. Shikanda is, however, aware that some factors might connive to shatter their plans for Sunday. “Many times good players fail to impress in the Mashemeji derby due to stage fright and the pressure imposed by fans.” Shikanda said Leopards were heading into the match as the fancied side after exhibiting great character in their campaign thus far. “We've improved a great deal in recent years. We totally outplayed our opponents in the FKF Cup finals held on May 5 and only ended up losing in penalties,” Shikanda said. The rivalry between the two clubs began at Nairobi City Stadium on May 5, 1968, with Gor Mahia squeezing out a hard-fought 1-0 win. Gor were banned from playing in Nairobi after crowd trouble marred their league encounter against Vihiga Bullets at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on February 13, where three fans suffered serious injuries. However, in an exclusive interview, Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier confirmed that they will be returning to the facility after a club meeting held on Wednesday afternoon resolved to shift the encounter from Kisumu to Nairobi following Leopards' security concerns. “We have arrived at a decision to stage the Mashemeji Derby at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on May 8 at 3 pm,” Rachier said.