Saku MP aspirant Halkano Dida Wako has urged residents to elect leaders who will spearhead development and fight for their rights. "I humbly ask our people to elect leaders who will help solve problems and bring desirable change," he said. Wako spoke on Saturday during a vote hunt in Saku, Marsabit Central. He urged residents to bank on him for better development and reject clan politics. "The electorates should reject clan chauvinists and vote in leaders who value peaceful coexistence. There is nothing like my clan when it comes to electing a good leader," Wako said The aspirant said residents should elect leaders wisely and not follow handouts. He said the electorate should evaluate aspirants properly based on their track record and accessibility. The independent candidate said residents should vet the leaders and not the parties, as most popular parties give tickets to those who don't deserve them. He said leaders who will be elected must take their responsibility seriously and avoid blame game. "What is needed is development conscious leaders who will work for the people by ensuring access to better services," Wako said. The aspirant said a good leader should work towards improving the lives of residents and not just making empty promises. He said his main agenda is to empower residents who are suffering due to poverty. Wako said all aspirants seeking elective seats should conduct their campaigns peacefully as there is no need to engage in activities that will disrespect other leaders. He further said leaders should weigh their words while making public utterances as it may cause unnecessary animosity. Wako said leaders should be at the frontline promoting cohesion and unity and not tribalism. The aspirant who is an economist by profession unveiled his strategy on how to spur economic growth, if elected. He promised to allocate Sh7 million yearly from the CDF to support women and Sh5 million to support youth economic initiatives. Wako also promised to set aside some funds to support special groups like orphans, windows and single parents. He further said he gave full executive bursaries to 18 students from poor families when he was a chief officer in Nairobi county. The aspirant said he also helped build the Qachacha Primary School staff quarters for teachers to be closer to pupils. He also bought new seats for Manyatta Jillo Primary School and provided food to Qarqarsa Primary School, which lasted for two weeks. Wako said he bought a double tent and chairs for women's groups in Olla Konso, Baliti from Kupi Bagasa, Obsa family group and Husler Gamachu from Dub Goba. He also built a posho mill for Badasa women group and established a green house for Biftu cultural group. The aspirant promised to use his network to engage the private sector and donors, to establish a special fund in each ward. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)