Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola said they are ready to “give their lives” in the final match of the season to retain the Premier League title in front of their supporters. City were held to a 2-2 draw at West Ham United in their penultimate game on Sunday, taking them four points clear of Liverpool, who can narrow the gap to one point when they travel to Southampton on Tuesday. City then host Aston Villa and Liverpool host Wolverhampton Wanderers on the final day of the campaign. “Next week our stadium will be sold out, we will give them our lives and they will give theirs, all together,” Guardiola said. “To do it is an incredible privilege, after many years. “To have our chance with our people, to win one game to be champions. I’m looking forward to it.” While City could be crowned champions on Tuesday if Liverpool lose, Guardiola said he was only focused on his own side. “If they lose or win it depends on us do the most perfect game we possibly can do,” Guardiola added. “Against this Liverpool you cannot win the league four games ago. You have to fight until the end. The big privilege is that it is at home and it is in our hands.” Jack Grealish said City were behind Riyad Mahrez, who missed a late penalty against West Ham. “We would never ever look to blame anyone,” Grealish said. “Riyad is that type of personality and character that will lift his head up and be ready to go again next week.” Meanwhile, former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke has been appointed the new head coach of Australian A-League side Macarthur United, the club announced on Sunday. The role will be the 50-year-old former Trinidad and Tobago international's first as a head coach and comes 16 years after he played for Sydney FC in the A-League's inaugurual season. "I am extremely excited in what is my first-ever senior full-time head coaching role, to take the reins at Macarthur FC," Yorke said in a statement on the club's website. "Having played in the inaugural A-League men's season, I have continually followed the competition, and am aware of both the footballing and fan demands in Australia. "I look forward to adding a positive contribution and improve the game at all levels, however of course my primary focus will be with the Bulls, to deliver them success and a style of football that defined me as a player." Yorke has been given a two-year contract and he replaces Ante Milicic after the former Australia women's coach announced he was standing down at the end of the season. Macarthur reached the playoffs in their first-ever A-League campaign in 2021 but missed out this season after finishing seventh in the standings.