The Wiper Party led by Nairobi Chairman Roy Kivusyu on Friday issued nomination certificates to its candidates in Nairobi. This is despite Azimio’s move to zone Nairobi. The Wiper Party was only left with the Embakasi South seat to defend. The current MP Julius Mawathe is defending his seat on a Wiper ticket under the Azimio. Speaking at Sagret Hotel, Kivusyu said the party has numerical strength in Nairobi and is opposed to zoning. He said the Wiper voters and the Kamba community are the ones who determine who becomes Governor, Senator and Woman Rep since they provide the swing vote. Kivusyu was flanked by Nairobi MP aspirants Ben Milai from Mathare, Fred Akech (Makadara), Tabitha Mutero of Kasarani and Joash Omwenga (Embakasi East). Others were Nairobi coordinator John mule and Baba Ndenge from Dagoreti North. Several MCA aspirants also received their certificates. Kivusyu said the Kamba community is the second-largest voting bloc in Nairobi and they cannot be relegated to a few seats. “We are ready to go and let’s meet at the ballot in August. The Wiper Party is strong and ready to meet our worthy opponents,” he said. On the issue of zoning, he said there was no communication about MPs and that the party members read on social media that Wiper had only one seat. Currently, the Wiper party has fielded candidates for MP seats in Makadara, Embakasi East, Kasarani, Kamukunji, Mathare and Embakasi South. Other Party members said Wiper is fronting Kalonzo Musyoka to be the country’s Deputy President under Azimio. “For the position of Deputy President, we demand that Kalonzo be given the ticket. He has twice supported Raila Odinga and they won. As Wiper, we must be given the running mate slot because Kalonzo will bring to Azimio more than 2.5 million votes,” they said. Nairobi has 17 sub-counties and 85 wards. Out of this, ODM had been given 7 seats, Jubilee 9 and Wiper only one. In the 2019 population and housing census, Nairobi recorded 4,397,073 million residents. In the last general election, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the registered voters increased to 2,251,929 from 1,732,288 in 2013.