Two Kitui MPs have accused Governor Charity Ngilu of hijacking national government projects for political mileage in her reelection bid. MPs Makali Mulu (Kitui Central) and Charles Nguna (Mwingi West) said Ngilu hijacked the launch of the tarmacking of the Sh2.3 billion road that links Kitui and Makueni. The launch happened last Friday. They said the governor claimed credit for the issuance of land title deeds to residents despite it being a national government project. The two MPs told the governor to stop seeking credit for projects done by the national government. Mulu said the 86km road from Wikililye in Kitui to Wote in Makueni was lobbied for by MPs. Nguna urged Ngilu to tell the people of Kitui how her administration utilised nearly Sh12 billion it has been receiving annually from the exchequer. The MPs spoke on Saturday at Kyondoni Primary School in Kitui West during prayers for Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua as he launched campaigns to defend his seat. The prayer session was presided over by AIC Bishop Joshua Kimuyu. Ngilu’s office has however denied the accusations, saying the governor lobbied for the projects. The governor’s communication director, Denis Omwange, moved to social media with video footage and pictures to prove that Ngilu engineered the road project and the processing of title deeds. Omwange posted a video clip of the Transport PS Mwangi Maringa confirming the project was realised due to incessant lobbying by Ngilu. “I appreciate Ngilu. She has the knack to follow up on things until they are done. She also called to enquire about the project,” he said when he presided over the launch. The PS said Ngilu ensured the project was not forgotten. Another video shows Ngilu requesting President Kenyatta to prioritise the road project when he visited Museve shrines in Kitui for a funds raiser in June last year. Ngilu’s office also said the governor was behind the fast-tracking of the land adjudication and titling programme. Photos have been produced of the governor and Land PS Nicholas Muraguri launching the programme in Katse market in January 2019.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris