The phrase 'education is a social equaliser' rings true for 15-year-old Lisa Adhiambo on Thursday. Her brilliant performance in the 2021 KCPE, where she garnered 420 marks, catapulting her to the summit of the log among public schools at the Coast, earned her a privilege she never imagined she would have. A flight from Mombasa to Kisumu, en route to Bunyore Girls in Emuhaya, Vihiga county, where she was called to join Form One, was the last thing on her mind. The bright teenager, who dreams of becoming an aeronautical engineer, had mixed feelings. "I am excited and nervous at the same time," she said at the Moi International Airport on Thursday. It was her first time on a plane. It was her first time seeing a plane at a close range. Her humble background in Mikindani area of Jomvu constituency meant she only saw the planes fly above their houses. “I only used to imagine being in one. I had no idea it would come this soon in my life,” Adhiambo said. Her trip to Vihiga County was courtesy of area MP Badi Twalib. The MP also paid for the return ticket to Kisumu, full shopping for the first term, and full school fees for the first year. "It is a way of motivating her and other students from my constituency," said Twalib at the airport. "I have made arrangements with my colleague and he agreed to pick her up and take her to Bunyore Girls," said a smiling Twalib. Adhiambo said Twalib has motivated her and pledged to do him, her parents, and Jomvu at large, proud. "I will strive to be the best," she said. Twalib said Lisa put Jomvu on the national map, and he had to reciprocate. "She is one of 40 students who will have their school fees paid in full in a scholarship program in my constituency," said Twalib. Each of the 40 students has had their fees of at least Sh40,000 paid for. The scholarship program started last year with another batch of 40 students. The first batch of students will also have their school fees for their second year in high school paid for. On Sunday, he issued bursary cheques worth Sh34 million for Jomvu students at various levels of education. "Jomvu has bright students who lack opportunities because of financial and other issues. It is my solemn duty to ensure that no student misses out on education because of lack of fees," said Twalib. Adhiambo, who also got the feeling of the Moi International Airport VIP lounge, said she will work hard to ensure she also easily enjoys such privileges. "My dream is to become an aeronautical engineer and I see it taking shape," said the former Amani primary school pupil.