Police are looking for a gang that shot and seriously injured a man during a robbery in Gikumari, Ruiru, Kiambu county. Denis Munyua, 34, told police he was driving out of a construction site in Gikumari when two men riding on a motorcycle struck. The victim was in the company of his wife during the Monday 4pm incident. The gang then ordered the two to lie down and surrender their mobile phones and cash prompting a confrontation. It was then that one of the thugs shot Munyua in the right thigh sending him to the ground. Police said the gang spared his wife after she complied with the orders. They then grabbed their two golden rings, Sh7,000 and mobile phones. According to the police, the gang escaped on the motorcycle that did not have a number plate. Central regional police boss Manase Musyoka said they have launched a manhunt for the gang. Meanwhile, police are investigating an incident in which the body of a 21- year-old man was found in River Ikinu, Githunguri, Kiambu county. The man was identified as Solomon Kimani Chege. The body did not have any physical injuries at the time it was discovered on Monday evening. Police suspect he was killed elsewhere and the body dumped at the scene.It was moved to the mortuary where an autopsy was planned on Tuesday. Residents told police there has been a trend of discovery of bodies at the river and urged for investigations. And in Kabati, Murang’a county, a 33-year-old man was hacked to death in a quarrel with suspected thugs during a robbery. Stanley Wanyoike’s body was discovered with a deep wound in the forehead long after he had been killed. The victim was also injured in the chin and left hand, giving an indication there was a struggle between him and his assailants. Police said they are yet to establish the motive of the attack and those behind it. The body was discovered at Kiagogo shopping centre and moved to the mortuary. Investigations into the attack are ongoing, police said. Elsewhere in Salama shopping centre in Nyahururu, there was panic after a police officer discharged three bullets from his G3 rifle without any provocation. This caused panic among residents who thought they were under attack. The officer was disarmed and taken for questioning. Police suspect he has a problem that needs to be attended to. Cases of misuse of firearms in the service are on the rise amid calls to address the trend.  (edited by Amol Awuor)