The English Premier League 2021-22 season is done and dusted and once again fine margins separated the two creme de la creme of English football in the last decade—Manchester City and Liverpool. The City emerged champions after piping Liverpool by a mere point with an incredible 99 goals scored. Liverpool scored five goals less but both teams conceded the same number of goals,26. Last week in this column, I predicted a Liverpool win, an Arsenal win, and a City draw; this was going according to script until the 85th minute of the game when super-sub Ilkay Gundogan gave the Cytizens that precious goal that gave them their sixth Premiership title. This week though the focus turns to the World’s most prestigious club competition which is the Uefa Champions League. Stade de France will this Saturday (May 28) host two of the most successful clubs in Europe as Real Madrid take on Liverpool. Real Madrid are undisputed Kings of Europe and have 13 European titles to boast about. The Reds meanwhile have six titles under their belt. The two teams have met eight times in all competitions with Los Blancos winning four and Liverpool three, there has been one draw in this contest. You clearly remember the May 26, 2018 final in Kiev where Real Madrid beat Jurgen Klopp’s side 3-1 in a match that had plenty of drama. A nervous-looking Liverpool side lost it when Mohamed Salah was dragged down by then captain Sergio Ramos, a calamitous Lloris Karius let in two easy goals to hand Zinedine Zidane’s side victory. So many things have changed since then as the Reds regrouped and won the title a year later in Spain, this time edging out Tottenham Hotspur 2-0 in Madrid!  Liverpool vs Real Madrid My prediction: Reds..3 Real Madrid...1. With the focus now on Saturday’s match, It’s a wait-and-see situation as Liverpool seek to halve what their foes have achieved. For Mohamed Salah, this is a game he must score. An injury setback two weeks ago against Chelsea in the FA Cup final meant that he featured partially in the Reds' remaining Premier League matches. He is on record saying, “It is revenge time against Madrid,” Obviously, Karim Benzema and Vinicius Junior will be a real threat to Virgil van Dijk but hey, Fabinho is fit to cover every blade of grass against his former side.  Back at home, the FKF Premier League continues with quite some interesting fixtures amid upsets. City Stars vs Gor Mahia City...1   K'Ogalo....1 To be honest, very few people can name a full Gor Mahia lineup including me. This is not because we don’t know these players, it is because we are all confused as this season has been. A 1-1 draw at home last weekend against title contenders meant that K’Ogalo remained win-less in four matches and they face City Stars who are also struggling a little bit. Just go for a draw here.  Homeboyz vs Leopards Boyz ...1  AFC ...2 On another day, the visitors would be fighting for the title but guess what, Homeboyz are actually a few points from claiming their maiden title. Ingwe are in quite some good form heading into this match and getting a win at the Bukhungu Stadium should not be a problem at all. What I can promise you is goals and goals from this epic encounter, also, expect Kakamega to be flooded with blue and white this weekend. Have a sporty weekend!