Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua's sacrifices for Deputy President William Ruto paid off after he was unveiled as the Kenya Kwanza running mate designate. Rigathi does not take prisoners: The former administrator is aggressive, combative and forceful. He has previously claimed that he has been haunted and persecuted by the government over his loyalty to Ruto. However, the former district officer during the Moi era, has been in the limelight over corruption cases in court. In February, the Asset and Recovery Agency told the court that the Sh200 million in his accounts was obtained through corruption. According to the agency, Rigathi's three personal accounts conducted a series of suspicious transactions debiting Sh7.3 billion and crediting sh12.5 billion between 2013 and 2020. The MP is also in court battling a case over money laundering and economic crimes involving Sh7.5 billion. Rigathi is now expected to lead Ruto's Mt Kenya team to consolidate the gains made and parry away efforts by President Uhuru Kenyatta to turn the tables on Kenya Kwanza. Having worked as an aide to Uhuru, Rigathi is seen as the man who will lead the hustler nation charge against Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition in Mt Kenya. In 2000s, Rigathi spent five years as Kenyatta's personal assistant but later turned to be his fiercest critic. The MP who claims to have been the son of Mau Mau freedom fighters, schooled at Kabiruini Primary School and later joined Kianyaga Boys High School. He joined the University of Nairobi where he studied political science and literature and Oklahama University in the United States. The MP first tasted power when he was appointed the assistant secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs and National Heritage from 1989 to 1992. The 57-year-old had earlier undergone paramilitary training at the Administration Police Institute that prepared him for a career in the government. Rigathi then left the ministry after he was recruited as a Cadet District Officer. He was moved to Molo as DO where he would become close to then President Daniel Moi. Later he was transferred to the Head of Civil Service Phillip Mbithi's office where he worked as a personal assistant and even wrote  Mois' speeches In 1995, he was named the district officer in charge of Kakamega before moving to Ngarua within Laikipia in 1997. After spending 10 years in public service, he quit and ventured into business, registering his first firm Ridor Group of Companies. In 2001, Kenyatta, who was then the Minister for Local Government, hired Rigathi to support his work in the office. The MP was Uhuru's PA during the 2002 general election. In 2006, Rigathi moved to work with his elder brother the Nderitu Gachagua. Nderitu was then Mathira MP and was elected first Nyeri governor in 2013. He won the Mathira MP seat on the Jubilee ticket in 2017. Quick Facts: Early learning at Kabiruini Primary School. O- Levels and A-Levels at Kianyaga High School. Bachelor of Arts Degree; Political Science and Literature from University of Nairobi where he studied between 1985 and 1988. Paramilitary Training at the Administration Police Institute in 1990. Advanced Public Administration course at Kenya School of Government between 1999 and 2000. He worked in the Office of the President as a District Officer Cadet from 1990. Personal Assistant to the Head of Public Service in 1991. Served as district officer in charge of Ng’arua Division, Laikipia District from 1997 to 1999. Served as Uhuru Kenyatta's personal assistant when he was Minister for Local Government. Between 2002 and 2006, Rigathi was Uhuru's PA .  (Edited by Tabnacha O)