The Rotary Club and other groups are cleaning up and trig to save River Sosiani, which flows through Eldoret and is a major water source in the region. They have launched a month-long clean-up and conservation exercise for the river threatened by careless dumping of waste, including harmful material from  industries, hotels and the jua kali sector, Rose Sitati, who is the president of the Rotary Club of Eldoret, said the river that once was safe for aquatic life was drying up because it is being choked by waste. She is also incoming district governor representative from District 9212 of Rotary International. “Water is very important and we have taken the initiative to clean up the river through partnership with the county government and other stakeholders because River Sosiani is a major source of life in our region," Sitani said. Sitati said all Kenyans should protect rivers that were being contaminated through dumping of waste causing serious health risks for human, aquatic and animal life. She said they were working with the county government, waste recycling groups and owners of businesses near areas along the river to implement the conservation plan for river Sosiani. “We will go out to educate Eldoret residents including industrialists and the entire community on the need to protect the river and because it is a source of water we need for life," Sitati said. They plan to use the areas along the river to plant trees, create parks and recreation facilities to inform residents of the importance of conserving water sources and the environment. The River Sosiani clean-up was part of the Rotary at Work initiative, which was marked by all Rotary Clubs on the Saturday. Clean up of the river was started by former minister for Environment  John Michuki but the initiative died and will now be spearheaded by the rotary club. Representatives from GA and Advocates also took part in the clean up exercise. Lawyer Rchard Mwangi said they had participated in formulation of policies and legislation to ensure that water sources like River Sosiani are protected. Mwangi said there was adequate legislative framework for protection of the environment an urged Nema to ensure that it plays its role of enforcing the laws in place. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu has also been at  the forefront of enforcing measures to protect the environment. (Edited by V. Graham)