Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali has received a major boost after elders from the Rendile community endorsed him for his re-election. Led by Mzee Garwale, the elders commended Ali's administration for enacting progressive policies that have uplifted the community. This is the third time Ali received elders' support after he was endorsed by his Borana community in January and Gurreh community last week. They cited health care reform, scholarship for needy students, National Hospital Insurance Fund, free ambulance, job opportunities and equity as some of Ali's milestones. "The governor has shown deep commitment to humanity, compassion and advancing equity," Garwale said. He said it's critical he gets a second term to continue working on issues affecting residents. Elder Peter Galwersi said the community should support Ali to continue benefiting from his inclusive leadership. They said Ali's administration has transformed the livelihoods by initiating projects in the four subcounties. The Rendile elders bestowed their blessings and prayers for Ali to serve for another term to complete projects he initiated. The residents also promised to extended their support to ODM leader Raila Odinga in his presidential bid. Ali highlighted some of the projects he initiated and promised to continue focusing on improving livelihoods by harnessing economic opportunity and adequate service delivery. He said he distributed county's resources equally and equalised ward development funds, where at least five hundred needy household received NHIF cover. Ali drumming up support for Raila asked residents to back the Azimio La Umoja One Kenya Coalition presidential bid. He said Raila is the best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta and revive the economy. Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo Riwe hailed Raila as a true statesman with the best interest of the country at heart. Marsabit Senator Godana Hargura emphasised the need for leaders to unite in seeking support from the electorate, saying no community can win on their own.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)