The Yellow Fever disease could still be spreading in northern Kenya, according to a World Health Organization report. The first case was reported on January 12 and by March 5, the Ministry of Health had recorded 15 suspected cases, three confirmed cases and three deaths. However, by end of March, WHO says that suspected cases had risen to 53. “The cases include six deaths, having been reported from Isiolo county and central Kenya,” the WHO says in a status report. Despite the outbreak, there has been no mass vaccination yet. However, in March, the Ministry of Health said it was procuring vaccines to conduct the exercise. “Yellow fever vaccination is included in the national routine immunisation schedule ( for children at nine months). "However it is only in four counties in the northwest, not directly bordering Isiolo, which is deemed to be at highest risk,” WHO says. The organisation said it now classifies Kenya as a high-risk country because of the current and past outbreaks in 1992, 1993, 1995 and 2011 in the western Rift Valley. In 2016, two imported cases from Angola were also reported. “Epidemic spread of yellow fever is a risk in Kenya as the estimated routine yellow fever vaccination coverage is very low among the target population. "The uptake is seven per cent and is limited in scope to four counties in the western part of the country (Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Turkana),” WHO said. The organisation also said Kenya was among 24 countries with confirmed outbreaks of a variant of polio in 2021. Six cases of mutated polio virus were detected in Kenya in December 2020 and January 2021. Three cases were newly-arrived children from Somalia at the Dadaab refugee camp.  Their stool was tested and found to have the mutated poliovirus. A mutated virus was also found in a separate sewage sample from Garissa, while two samples of sewage collected in Mombasa were found to have a similar virus. “The rise in outbreaks of other vaccine-preventable diseases is a warning sign. As Africa works hard to defeat Covid-19, we must not forget other health threats. "Health systems could be severely strained not only by Covid-19 but by other diseases,” Dr Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO Regional Director for Africa said. Moeti said vaccines are at the heart of a successful public health response and as countries restore services, routine immunisation must be at the core of revived and resilient health systems. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)