Elders from Bantu-speaking communities in Endebes subcounty have endorsed Pius Gumo, son of former Westlands MP Fred Gumo, to run for the seat held by Dr Robert Pukose. The elders from the four wards on Tuesday gave the young Gumo the go-ahead to run for the seat after weeks of  deliberations. The elders said Gumo deserves to be given a chance, arguing his father's track record was distinguished and when he was  mayor of Kitale, everyone benefitted. Gumo is a businessman in Nairobi and large-scale farmer in Trans Nzoia. The elders said they will hold engagements with other communities in the cosmopolitan constituency to support Gumo whom they said stood a better chance than others of winning the seat. Led by spokesmen Gilbert Igidi, Francis Mukinisu and John Makomboti, the elders bestowed their blessings, adding they would fully back young Gumo to win. "We have given Pius Gumo our blessings and full mandate to approach other communities for political support to ensure his bid for the seat is successful," Mukinisu said. He said the time had come for residents of Endebes to completely discard the mindset that only one tribe can lead the constituency. Elder Solomon Kisongochi said the elders had seen young Gumo’s track record, adding that if given a chance, he will spur development to benefit all residents. They were backed by former nominated MCA Bernadine Omondi who said it was the time for youths to lead. The elder Gumo has two sons Pius vying in Endebes and Mike who had indicated running on the ODM ticket after incumbent Tim Wanyonyi declared interest in the Nairobi governor's ticket. "I’m happy  to have been endorsed by the Luhya elders to run for this seat on August 9,"Gumo told the Star on Tuesday If he is elected, he will be the first Luhya in the position. Pukose of UDA, from the Sabaot community, has been getting overwhelming support from both Endebes and neighbouring Uganda. Communities  play a major role in Trans Nzoia politics. Endebes comprises of almost all tribes making it the real face of Kenya with the Luhya and Sabaots being dominant ones. "Endebes needs a leader whose family, track record and relationship with the people speak volumes. This is the reason this constituency has lagged behind in development with people from our neighbouring county benefiting more," Gumo said. The endorsement ceremony was attended by hundreds of elders, professionals, youths and women. Besides Pius Gumo who is running as an independent candidate, others interested in the seat are Alwin Sasia Chebiagan of DAP K, Moses Ainea Wanjala Masinde of ODM and Chamii Jammy Aimiyu, who is also an independent. (Edited by V. Graham)