Deputy President William Ruto has vowed to lower the prices of farming products if elected in the August 9 General Election. Speaking at a campaign rally in Trans Nzoia on Sunday, Ruto said he would lower fertilizer prices from Sh6,000 to Sh2,500. "There must be access to fertilizers that a farmer can afford. Now I want to announce here in Kitale that fertilizer prices will decrease from Sh6,000 to the Sh2,500 we used to know, starting this year." Last month, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya announced new fertilizer prices which took effect on April 2, 2022. The new changes in prices announced by the CS are as follows: DAP was to cost Sh2,800 CAN at Sh1,850, and UREA was to go for Sh2,700. The new move is to cushion farmers against the high cost of planting, which resulted in many using farmyard manure as an alternative during the planting season. But Ruto has claimed he will reduce the prices further and that his government would help the Trans Nzoia residents to rehabilitate the ADC farms so that poultry and dairy farmers would have animal feeds at an affordable price."This is the belt where we can grow soya, sim sim, palm oil and all other raw materials, including maize so that we can have affordable animal feeds," he said. The DP also said that he plans to increase farm productivity from 10 to 15 bags of maize per acre to 30 to 40 bags per acre. "We have to rehabilitate our soils. If liming is needed, we will launch a national liming program to improve our soils," he added. The UDA leader said they would free farmers' markets from brokers and cartels, claiming they distress farmers. "Brokers take two to three days and earn more money than the farmer who has waited for a year." Ruto lauded the Trans Nzoia people for requesting to have auditors in their cooperative societies for accountability. "I have never seen any people who want accountability as a part of their development. Congratulations. We must have the auditors to ensure transparency," he said. Ruto reiterated that his government would set aside Sh50 billion to fund micro and small business owners. "The program will loan you with a low interest of 5 per cent a year. We will make the rates low to reach every small business owner, be it mama mboga or boda boda."