Kenya Kwanza leaders have dismissed police investigation into the conduct of Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa for branding a CDF vehicle with UDA colours and changing the number plates. Speaking in Soysambu in Tongaren constituency, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula said before the police arrest Barasa, they should also investigate why ODM leader Raila Odinga was using government vehicles in his campaigns. "Before they intimidate Didmus, they should also explain why Odinga is using government vehicles with the registration number of KCY," Wetang'ula said. Wetang'ula sensationally claimed that Odinga was using government vehicles and choppers in his campaigns. He told the state to be fair to all leaders saying skewed justice will lead the country into trouble. Mudavadi told the crowd that attended the meeting that the state had only narrowed on Didmus because he was not aligned with Azimio. He said so many leaders on the Azimio side were using government vehicles for campaigns and had not been arrested. "Let them start with recalling all those GK vehicles we are seeing in their campaign trails before narrowing on Didmus," he added. Mudavadi also took issue with state officials being used to bullying opponents saying when Kenya Kwanza takes government, they will be dealt with. Speaking at the same function Barasa dismissed that he had done anything wrong saying he has always used the vehicle in serving Kimilili residents as he bought the vehicle during his tenure as MP. "What is wrong with me using the vehicle for any errands as I serve the people of Kimilili?" Barasa asked. He said as the sitting MP he has a right to use the CDF vehicle. He challenged police to also go and arrest Government officials like Eugene Wamalwa and Joe Mucheru who were using government vehicles to campaign for the Azimo team. He said he is not afraid of government intimidation saying he has gotten used to political persecution. "It doesn't matter the level of intimidation because one thing we are sure is this government is on its way out," said Barasa. Kimilili sub-county police boss Mwita Maroa said that the vehicle with original registration number GK948J was impounded in the homestead of the lawmaker at Nasianda village on Tuesday morning. "We did this in a joint operation involving the Government Check Unit officers from Nairobi, Serious Crimes personnel, DCI officers from Nairobi and Kimilili. The contingent stormed the homestead following extensive investigations and towed the vehicle to Kimilili police station and later to Bungoma before heading to Nairobi," he said. He said police acted on a tip-off from members of the public who raised complaints after seeing the vehicle in the MP's campaign rallies. Marua said that the vehicle had a fake number plate KBS 709D. He said that it's against the law to use government vehicles for personal issues and campaign matters.