Deputy President William Ruto has pledged to create 50,000 jobs for residents of Uasin Gishu county if his Kenya Kwanza team wins the August 9 elections. Ruto also said that his administration will put up 10,000 low-cost housing for Eldoret residents. Ruto pledged to nominate an extra MP in the county along with two MCAs from the Luo and Luhya communities. Ruto was speaking in Langas, Eldoret town, after attending a church service at PCEA Langas The DP campaigned for UDA nominees in the area including area MP Oscar Sudi and governor Jackson Mandago among others. He urged residents to vote for all the UDA nominees to make his work easier if elected president in August "I want to promise you that I will not let you down and as my people here at home, let no one come here to plan for you," Ruto said. He said Kenya Kwanza would prioritize the expansion of the economy by investing more than Sh100 billion to create more jobs for youths. Ruto said despite the ongoing political campaigns, Kenya would remain peaceful. He dismissed Azimio as planless saying its leaders are planning to revive the BBI and create positions for themselves. "For us, our first job will be the economy and jobs for our youth,"  Ruto said. Ruto said as leaders in Kenya Kwanza they had put their trust in God ahead of the elections. Ruto said he had schooled at Wareng High School in the Langas area and the visit to the area was like a homecoming "I went to school here at Langas. Langas is my Jerusalem," Ruto said. Ruto also promised to deal with the long-standing land ownership disputes in the Langas area where residents have no title deeds. He was with Moses Kuria, Ndindi Nyoro, Didmus Barasa and Kimani Ngunjiri, Oscar Sudi and Jackson Mandago among others. Sudi said this year's elections will be the most peaceful because residents of the region were united. Nyoro cautioned President Kenyatta not to campaign for Azimio because he would be embarrassed at the ballot. He said the Mt Kenya region had already decided to back Ruto on August 9th. He said Ruto had even been nicknamed Kamau in the region because they considered him as one of them. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri said they supported DP Ruto because he had the capacity to unite the country He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to give back for the support he received from Ruto during the last elections. MP Barasa urged residents not to vote for local leaders who were undermining DP Ruto. He named Kesses MP Dr Swarrup Mishra as one of those who should be rejected. Mishra is defending his seat as an independent ticket.