A court has given the DPP up to August 31 to decide whether to withdraw a case against two brothers accused of forging succession documents in a Sh700 million property dispute. When the case came up for mention before Milimani chief magistrate Susan Shitubi, the court was told the parties are still negotiating an out of court settlement. Kuldip Madan Sapra and Ashman Masan Mohan Sapra who are brothers, are seeking an out-of-court deal in Sh700 million property row. The accused have written to the DPP seeking to settle with the complainant who is their sister in law. They said the move will allow the matter to be concluded. The prosecution had said indeed they had seen the letter directed to the DPP and that they needed time to seek directions. However, the magistrate adjourned the case, saying it had been taken to her attention that the parties are trying Alternative Dispute Resolution  mechanisms. The two are said to have petitioned the High Court to grant them letters of administration in the estate of the Yogaish Madan Mohan Sapra who died on September 8,2005. According to the charge sheet, the brothers are accused that on January 12, 2011 at the High Court in Nairobi made a false affirmation in relation to the succession cause No, 26 of 2011, in the matter of the estate of the  deceased Yogaish, before then High Court judge Isaac Lenaola. The documents they altered purported to consent to a grant of administration of the almost a billion estate. They were accused of jointly attempting to acquire from a Nairobi Dental Surgeon Dr Nisha Supra the beneficiary of the estate of Yogaish. It included half an acre of land in Lower Kabete, a house in Lower Kabete, another house in Brookside Garden, an apartment in Nyali estate in Mombasa next to Tamarind Restaurant  and some 4036 shares at Kenya Airways Limited. Yogaish also had a Mt Kenya Sundaries retail shop at Hilton Hotel in Nairobi, Maya Duty Free shops at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Sapra Investments Limited and Green Gems Limited all valued at Sh700,000,000. They are also accused of falsely pretending that they were the bona fide administrators of the estate of  Yogaish.