The former principal of Highway secondary school on Thursday told an anti-corruption court that Kapsaret MP Oscar Sudi did not sit for his KCSE certificate at the said school in 2006. Patrick Maritim confirmed earlier testimony of an official from the Kenya National Examinations Council who said Sudi did not register nor sit for the 2006 KCSE examination at Highway secondary school. Maritim told anti-corruption Magistrate Felix Kombo that Sudi’s name did not appear anywhere in the school register at the time he was the Principal there. The witness, now a CEC at Bomet County Government, said sometime in 2015, he received a letter from the anti-graft body seeking information on Sudi’s enrollment at the school. "They were requesting me to confirm whether Sudi's name was part of the school records and to avail the admission registry of which I did,” he said. Maritim said Sudi’s name did not appear in the register and index 81 which he allegedly forged belonged to one Nicholas Otieno. “KCSE certificate is normally obtained from KNEC. The student will then come and sign that it has been collected. And from the records, it does not show Sudi sat for his KCSE at highway secondary school,” said the witness. Maritim was testifying against Sudi who has been charged with forging a Diploma certificate in Business Management purporting it to be a genuine document issued by the Kenya Institute of Management. He is also accused of forging his KCSE certificate purporting it to be a genuine document issued by the Kenya National Examination council. Earlier accounts by former Head of Examinations at Kenya Institute of Management (KIM) John Mateshe said their records prove that Sudi has never registered as a student of the institute. Mateshe, who was the tenth prosecution witness, told the court that a copy of the Sudi certificate presented to the institution by the anti-graft body was not a copy of a genuine document issued by KIM. “The number 36262 on the certificate presented to me belongs to a certificate issued to one Elkana Kimutai of admission number NRB/20870 of Diploma in Purchasing and supplies management which was issued on 24 September 2009,” said the witness. The case against Sudi has been pending in court since 2016. This year the matter has been adjourned on three occasions following claims that Sudi has been ailing. Thursday’s proceedings for instance had to proceed in his absence after the Magistrate said he was not convinced of the reasons adduced by the accused’s lawyer that he is sick. He had initially said he had travelled to Turkey for medical treatment but it came out yesterday that he was lying and he was in fact in Eldoret. "These documents provided by the defence still don’t show the specific address where the hospital in Turkey is located," said Kombo. "It is also now clear that your client did not travel. Why did you say yesterday he travelled? If he gave you instructions that were not true, tell me and leave it to the court, "posed the Magistrate. The case had been scheduled to proceed for hearing as of Wednesday. But it was adjourned after Sudi, through his legal team led by Thomas Ruto and Professor George Wajackoya, asked for time to present the court with documentation proving the whereabouts of their client. It is not clear what the legislator is ailing from.