Imenti North police boss Alexander Makau has said they will arrest those damaging state property by putting their campaign material on them. This is after campaign posters were illegally put up on some of the roads, road signs, statues and monuments by unknown people. Makau who spoke to the Star on Monday at his office said these people normally conduct their business at night. "Let residents be warned, we will arrest all those who are found culpable. They will be used as examples for others with similar behaviours," he said. The police boss further warned politicians against hate speech saying those who go against the election act will be arrested. "They should not apply anything against the law. Those who will create disturbance and violence will be arrested," he said. Makau also said Kenyans should exercise political tolerance. "I am encouraging politicians who are campaigning, to do it during daytime, when security from police officers is guaranteed," he said. The police boss said they have also arrested and prosecuted several people engaging in crime, drugs, illicit brews, contrabands and counterfeits in the constituency. "We have confiscated and destroyed more than 10,000 litres of changaa, muna and other illicit brews.  We have also arrested several people selling bhang in areas like Kaithe," he said. Makau said they do weekly raids with a multi-agency team that targets areas where there are drug peddlers and people selling illicit brews. He said most of those arrested for petty crimes are youths from areas, which lead in illicit brews and drugs, especially slums. The police boss said chiefs and assistant chiefs are helping out in tipping police of any suspicious activities. "We are working as a multi-agency and that is why we are reducing petty crimes significantly," he said. Makau said they have zoned Meru town as a prototype village where they conduct patrols with ease. "That is why in areas like Gakoromone market, crime has gone down. We are targeting people who are mugging and snatching. A team is working on it and soon we are going to reduce it," he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)