The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) on Monday urged security agencies to stick to their legal mandates as enshrined in the constitution while discharging duties. This comes in the wake of rivalry pitting DPP Noordin Haji and his DCI counterpart George Kinoti. In an apparent reference to the ongoing rivalry, the ODPP  cited a judgement of a case to demonstrate that the law is clear on the role of the two agencies. In the case filed by Humphrey Kariuki and seven others against the ODPP, Chief Magistrate's court, Milimani Law Courts and  DCI amongst others were listed as respondents, Justice A. Mrima ruled that the DCI has no legal mandate to prosecute a case. Kariuki had filed a petition opposing the charge sheet used to prosecute him arguing it was illegally drafted by the DCI instead of the ODPP. He and the seven others had been charged with allegedly evading Sh17 billion of tax. Justice Mrima agreed with their submission and barred any court from acting on any matter prosecuted by the DCI. Mrima ruled that only the ODPP has the legal mandate to prosecute cases. "Save for the Charge Sheets prepared and signed by the lawful Prosecutors (being either the Director of Public Prosecutions or such other persons exercising the delegated powers of the DPP under Article 157 (9)of the Constitution or the entities conferred with the powers of prosecution pursuant to Article 157 (12) of the Constitution), no Court in Kenya shall forthwith accept, register and in any manner whatsoever deal with any Charge Sheets not prepared and signed by any of the lawful Prosecutors," the ruling by Justice Mrima reads as quoted by ODPP. It is on that backdrop that the ODPP now wants the security agencies to stick to their roles without invading that of other their counterparts. "It is prudent and imperative for all agencies to perform their duties in accordance with their respective legal mandate," Victor Mule, acting deputy director of public prosecutions, said in the statement. ODPP clarified that it did not have any hand in the orders made by Justice Mrima adding that the court ruled on the matter after considering the argument presented by the Kariuki and the seven others. It added that any impression made to portray that the ODPP overtook any other agency's duty is created with ulterior motives to undermine the criminal justice system. The ODPP has, however, expressed commitment to consult with the office of the Inspector General of the National Police Service before undertaking any measures in its line of work.