Former Nandi Governor Cleophas Lagat has quit UDA and opted to vie for the county's top seat as an independent candidate. He has already been cleared by the Registrar of Political Parties to vie for governor after he rejected the results of the UDA primaries. During the primaries, incumbent Governor Stephen Sang was declared the winner. Lawyer Alan Kosgey came second, followed by Lagat. None of the UDA primaries losers accepted the results and Lagat took the decision to vie as an independent arguing that the results of the primaries were doctored. Governor Sang, who is serving his first term, garnered 100,490 votes, while Kosgey got 48,845 votes. UDA aspirant Antipas Tirop rejected the results, questioning the figures. "The unfortunate reality is that the nominations were marred by voter bribery and predetermined outcome," he said. "We promise all our supporters that we will be back soon with a 'tsunami and earthquake' coalition. To the competitors, who robbed Nandi people of their victory, let's meet on the ballot on August 9." There have been reports that losers in the primaries have agreed to team up and back Lagat as an independent candidate. The move will result in a two-horse battle between Sang and his predecessor. Several other aspirants who lost in the UDA primaries in the county have also opted to vie as independent candidates. MPs Vincent Tuwei of Mosop and Cornel Serem of Aldai will defend their seats as independent candidates. The two tallied second in the primaries, which were marked by claims of massive irregularities. The margins of their loss in the primaries were slim and analysts say the MPs could still reclaim their seats. Serem lost to a former employee at Deputy President William Ruto's office, Marryann Keittany, while Tuwei lost newcomer Abraham Kirwa. In Marakwet West, Lawrence Mutwol who lost to MP Bowen Kangogo has also decided to vie as an independent candidate on August 9. In Uasin Gishu, MPs who did not join UDA but will run as independents include Swarrup Mishra of Kesses constituency, Sila Tiren of Moiben and William Chepkut of Ainabkoi. A major battle between independent candidates and those of UDA is expected in Uasin Gishu, which is DP Ruto’s home county. Politician-businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki will be running for governor in the region as an independent. Edited by A.N