Bandari head coach Anthony 'Modo' Kimani has vowed to wreak havoc in their remaining four matches as they firmly train their eyes on their maiden Kenyan Premier League title. The coastal lads ran riot over a hapless and relegation-threatened Vihiga United over the weekend to cement the third spot on the log where they are rooted with 53 points, six adrift of leaders Kakamega Homeboyz. The performance highlighted the smooth and easy progress the dockers have experienced in the latter stages of the season, especially after Kimani took charge of the bench. The 32-year-old ex-Kenyan international who joined Bandari from AFC Leopards has sent a warning shot to their remaining opponents, asking them to brace up for abrasive encounters. “We shall be treating all our remaining four matches as finals and we shall do our best to collect maximum points in each of them. Kimani has asked his charges to remain level-headed and resist the urge of popping the champagne corks too early in the day. “As I had said earlier, we are taking one match at a time. Yes, the excitement of winning matches and securing a respectable position in the standings is in the air, but we can't let that get into our heads and distract us from our consistent form thus far,” he said. Kimani, who took the reins from Rwandan gaffer Cassa Mbungo in February, concedes he had to burn the midnight oil to exorcise the ghosts that had haunted the squad in the initial phases of the season. “I'm happy they have rediscovered their confidence. It's quite evident from how they play with calmness and the manner in which they pull off some mesmerizing tricks on the pitch,” Kimani said. The gaffer was full of rosy words for his newfound talisman Johanna Mwita who has been finding the back of the net at whim. “He is a good player who has been fortunate enough to have some marvelous teammates playing behind and giving them all the necessary support,” Kimani said. Kimani said he has finally been relieved of incessant selection headache given seven of his squad members who stayed out of action after sustaining serious injuries are finally up and about. “I'm glad all our players who were out with injuries are now back on their feet and I no longer have to worry much about selecting the matchday Squad. Only Whyvonne Isuza is still nursing an injury.”