The latest data by civil society groups shows police killed 53 people within the first three months of this year. The data covers the period from January to March. Police have denied the claims, saying the data is unreliable. The lobbies, through the Missing Voices platform, monitor and document shooting and killing incidents suspected to have been carried out by police officers unlawfully. The platform is mounted by coalition of lobby groups that include International Justice Mission, Amnesty International, KHRC, Muhuri among others. “According to our data, 53 people have been killed by the police or disappeared in 2022,” the platform said. "Out of the number, 50 deaths were as a result of police killings. Two of the deceased first went missing before being discovered dead." Three of the people disappeared in police custody, the data shows. The data paints a grim picture as the country draws near the high-stakes general election. Past election monitoring reports have always showed that more police-linked violence gets reported. The figures by the outfits suggest that the numbers for the killings would be higher this year. In 2019, the coalition documented 145 cases of police killings. 158 people were killed by police in 2020 and 10 disappeared while in custody. “In 2021, Missing Voices documented the highest amount of police killings and enforced disappearances of at least 219 people.” The 219 killing and disappearance cases recorded last year, the data shows, were as a result of 161 separate incidents. At least 36 were cases of enforced disappearances and four were found dead more than 24 hours after disappearing in police custody. Along with these four, Missing Voices documented 187 cases of police killings. Police have rejected these figures, saying that the data collected by the coalition of lobbies were unreliable and included thugs that were legitimately killed. Police spokesman Bruno Shioso told the Star previously that the lobbies mostly don't verify the deaths with the police and they lump up every death on the streets that no one has claimed responsibility for. According the 2021 report recently launched by the lobbies, Nairobi leads with the share of the killings. Kiambu, Kisumu and Uasin Gishu follows closely. Further analysis of the cases also show that boda boda operators are emerging as the most targeted by the cops for extrajudicial killings. The data show that majority of those killed aged 18 to 35 are boda boda riders or working in the transport industry as touts or drivers. Chairman of the boda boda association Kevin Mubadi says targeting his members for harassing, arrests, extortion and killing have sustained a rift between them and the law enforcement community. "Police killings that target our members have always created a rift between boda boda riders and police officers, but we have tried to solve the matter amicably,"Mubadi said. "We urge our police officers to behave and take riders as human beings. Police officers should not see money anytime they see them."  (Edited Tabnacha O)