Baron & Cabot, an international property investment company has launched a base in Kenya to help investors in East Africa venture in the UK in a simple and effective way. The firm has built a market-leading research strategy for the investor to simply just choose what would be suitable for them. Investors are also granted a step-by-step guide on sourcing the right property to purchase in the UK, giving them the power and confidence to ask the right questions for profitable property investment. “We aim to help Kenyans with the ability to provide mortgages and buying of the property thorough research for the safety of their investment in the UK,'' Baron & Cabot founder Mark Pearson said. He added that the firm has some of the most advanced data analytics in the world to give precise investor information to customers. ''We break down the whole of England into 1-2 square kilometre squares and look at all of the economic and environmental factors which change the property value and rental value,'' Pearson said. These factors include historical data on price, price per square foot, average salary, inflation, supply and demand, and lending rates all the way back to the 1990s. ''This means that not only are we miles ahead of the game in terms of picking the right property, but we can also produce some of the most accurate cash flow estimates in the world,'' he added. Investing in property in the UK is greatly considered to be one of the lowest risk investments in the world, with consistent long-term returns factored in by continuous growth within the country. The latest property index in the UK by Nationwide shows the sector is 'Surprisingly buoyant despite a month-on-month drop in April. It is expected to pick up this month. Average house price growth slowed in the year to April to 12.1 per cent, from 14.3 per cent recorded in March. However, it still marks the 11th time in the last 12 months that the rate of annual growth has been in double digits. “As the demand for property investment rises among African investors, our main goal is to make sure the process of property investment always remains transparent and simple,”  Pearson said. James Walsh, head of sales and research at Baron & Cabot says the launch in Kenya and Nigeria provides a great opportunity to African investors to tap into the lucrative UK property market. ''This investment platform gives investors in the continent an opportunity to put money into the offshore property market with ease and without limitations,'' Walsh said.