Being a mother is always a dream come true for every woman, at least most of them. Celebrated annually on the eighth day of May, Mother’s day is a holiday that honors motherhood and is observed in different forms throughout the world. While others might just take a day off or go out with friends and family. In Ethiopia, Mother’s Day is an extra special day. In fact, the day lasts for three days. Antrosht, the name of the celebration calls for the whole family to gather and enjoy traditional Ethiopian meals together. Two important food items enjoyed during Mother's Day are 'hash' and Ethiopian juice. They celebrate with feasting, dancing singing, and mother-daughter rituals where they cover themselves with butter on their faces and chests. History of Mother’s day In ancient history Celebrations of mothers and motherhood can be traced back to the ancient Greeks and Romans, who held festivals in honor of the mother goddesses Rhea and Cybele. In the modern precedent, Mother’s Day is the early Christian festival known as “Mothering Sunday.” However, with motherhood, comes various challenges and hiccups which if not attended to, too can weigh on you and you may lose the balance between being a mother and taking care of yourself. So ladies, embrace your motherhood, but with the right balance of parenting and self-care. Let us all remember that our ability to spread love as mothers begins with self-love and it’s an area we cannot afford to ignore. Things to do this mother’s day for your loved one: Play Games Find out her favorite games. Is she into board games, cards, or outdoor games doing jigsaw puzzles? Whatever her preferred activities, organize a little celebration around that or even go on a bike ride. Set an Indoor Picnic You can prepare her a special breakfast on Sunday, and surprise her with a breakfast in bed. Even if it is just a simple cake, tea, and fruits. Make it into an adventure so that having to stay in doesn’t feel like a punishment. Luxury Hamper If you don’t have time to go and do the shopping, perhaps you can order a hamper from an online store and surprise her. Maybe it is a bag, perfume, body wash, earrings, shoe, watch, alcohol, flowers, or even chocolate. There is sure to be a combination that works for you. Movie Night You can take her to a movie theater around Nairobi or you can get cozy and watch your favorite shows together at home. Definitely make popcorn or get snacks and enjoy together. Take a trip on Memory Lane Get together your family and watch a video collage of the special moments you have had with her, or get your family album and view her favorite family photos. For many people though, a photo album is a cherished possession, especially our African parents. This is especially true for people who don’t use social media and smartphones. Don’t forget to take even more photos of the day and share them with other family members!