There will be slight showers of rainfall in Nairobi, Mt Kenya and parts of the Western region, a new seven-day forecast by the weatherman shows. The analysis shows mornings with occasional drizzles in Nairobi this weekend. The Meteorological department said Nairobi and Mt Kenya region will have showers over a few places that will give way to some sunny intervals. The weather forecast shows rains are expected over several parts of the Western and Mt Kenya region, the rest of the country will remain dry. David Gikungu from the Meteorological services said rainfall is expected over several parts of the North Rift, Western, Nyanza and Mt Kenya, while the rest of the country is likely to be generally dry. Daytime and nighttime temperatures are likely to be moderate. He said there will be showers and thunderstorms over several places of the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Lake Victoria Basin and the Central and South Rift Valley. These include Kisii, Nyamira, Trans-Nzoia, Uasin-Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, West-Pokot. Others are Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Busia, Migori, Baringo, Nakuru, Narok and Laikipia. Night showers are expected in a few places. The weather forecast released on Thursday showed that Turkana and Samburu will have morning rains, afternoon and night showers and thunderstorms are expected over a few places. In Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, days are expected to be generally sunny and nights partly cloudy, with occasional afternoon showers over a few places during the first half of the forecast period. “The South-eastern Lowlands Counties of Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, Kajiado and Taita-Taveta will be generally sunny during the days while the nights partly cloudy,” Gikungu said. “However, occasional afternoon showers may occur over a few places during the first half of the forecast period. The Coast region, Tana-River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will experience showers in the morning, early afternoon and night over a few places.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris