Four journalists from The Star Newspaper bagged awards at the AJEA gala dinner held on Friday night. Senior Digital reporter Nancy Agutu bagged the award at the Media Council Event in the Development Reporting Print category. The Annual Journalism Excellence Awards is the council's signature event to celebrate journalistic excellence and achievements in Kenya. Her story; Mentoring girls to rise above teen pregnancy in Kibera was the winning article. This is a story about girls in Kibera who at some point got pregnant after being defiled by their fathers, some got pregnant while on contraceptives while others were rejected by mothers after getting pregnant. In one instance, a girl said after she found out she was pregnant her mother rejected her, making her engage in prostitution to get money for food during her pregnancy. Journalist Hesborn Etyang also won in the Health Reporting Digital category. His story; Village 'doctors' saving young lives in Turkana amid Covid-19 Pandemic was the winning article. The story is about the accomplished and dedicated Community Health Volunteer , transforming health services delivery in this marginalised, sun-scorched, hard-to-reach far flung region amid poor roads and communication network. Through this initiative in Turkana county, currently, almost 2,000 CHVs have been deployed to nearly every village in the county to offer the services. On the Investigative Reporting Print category, Victor Amadala emerged the winner. His article; Revealed: How Kenya Power plunged into Sh120 billion debt was the winning article. It was a three part story that serialised wanton corruption, and mismanagement at Kenya's sole power distributor, leading to high energy cost for consumers. The stories informed the ongoing reforms in the energy sector championed by president Uhuru Kenyatta's energy taskforce. Environmental reporter Gilbert Koech emerged the winner in the Development Reporting Digital category. His story; How threats to Maasai Mara are hurting villagers. This is a story about wilderbeest migration and how they face obstacles when moving across the Game reserves around July or August every year. More than 1.5 million wildebeests make a daring, perilous journey from Serengeti in Tanzania across the Mara River into the Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya. The winners were given trophies and certificates and are expected to receive monetary prizes as well. Reporter Solomon Muingi, photographer Andrew Kasuku and former Star journalist Malemba Mkongo came in second in Agriculture And Food Security Print, Photographer of the year and Sports categories respectively. Radio Arica Group head of Content Paul Ilado congratulated the winners for scooping the awards. "To all the Star Stars. First, congratulations to all who won, all those who made it to the final and all those who entered the competition. You are all winners," he said. In a communique to the staff on Saturday, Ilado congratulated 'the most decorated persons in the office'. "I'm so glad that everyone can see your brilliance. Every year, this event serves as inspiration for journalists in the country. It’s the first time in 13 years the Star has had this many winners, finalists and entries," he said. "That shows our growth and confirms that Radio Africa especially the Star has talent that can compete with the very best in the industry." Ilado recognised the writers saying the management was happy with the work they have done. "Media Council once again shines light on the qualities that make us all proud to be in this profession as we strive to produce award-winning content across all our platforms," he said. He encouraged the rest of the team to purpose to enter the categories next year. "To those who entered and didn’t get a trophy don’t give up. You are only a step away. Try again next year. For those who were crowned, the challenge for you is to maintain the standards. I believe in you all and look forward to more celebration in the coming days," he added. The seven journalists emerged as finalists after MCK received more than 1,200 entries. Out of this number, 153 journalists were shortlisted. MCK said the entries was subjected to a judging criterion premised on ethics and journalism principles by a seven-member panel of editors and journalists.