Kenya has started harvesting from the first hybrid coconut trees that were imported from India and planted in Kilifi county in 2019. The hybrid coconut trees take only two and a half years to mature. They produce more than 300 fruits at a time, unlike the traditional ones, which are called African tall coconut trees that take up to six years to mature and produce about 100 fruits. The African coconut trees grow up to six and a half metres high, whereas the new hybrid trees grow up to two and a half feet and they are ready to start producing fruits. The project was funded by Danish International Development Agency in partnership with the Kilifi county, which had initially imported 6,000 seedlings. A delegation from Danida, Kilifi county and other government officials on Monday unveiled the first bumper harvest on one of the farms in Ganda, Malindi. The officials termed the project a success. Kilifi Agriculture executive Lucyana Sanzua said the project is a game-changer for coconut farming in the region. “We are happy that today we are harvesting the first fruits of the hybrid coconut trees that were imported into the country in 2019 and 2020,” she said. Salim Kalu, a farmer from the Miwani farm in Ganda location where the launch was held, told journalists he started hybrid coconut farming in 2019 and started harvesting two and a half years later. “We are here to celebrate this harvest and we want to thank Danida for enabling the project to be a success,” Kalu said. He said the project has really been transformative and urged the partners to continue supporting  Kilifi farmers to fully go into hybrid coconut farming. “I also want to urge the local farmers to fully embrace the new coconut farming techniques for better yields,” he said. The farmer said he was first informed about the project by a local agricultural officer and was given 25 seedlings to plant. “I managed to successfully grow 30 and the five trees were lost. The major challenge was the pest that attacked the trees and lack of water due to failed rains because the seedlings need a lot of water to survive,” Kalu said. Charles Wasike, a programmes officer at the Embassy of Denmark, said they were happy to participate in the first-ever harvest of hybrid coconut in Kenya. He said they are now producing a variety that is fast maturing and with high yields, adding that their focus is on the smallholder farmers. Wasike said Danida invested more than Sh50 million to make the project a success. “Our long-term plan is to make sure that this variety of plant reaches as many farmers as possible, but at the same time, how to make it a sustainable project,” Wasike said. “That is why we will use a market-based approach, even if it means providing credit to farmers so that they acquire seedlings through a certain check-off system we’ll have that arranged.” He said they will also bring in other players like the private sector to do direct importation. Micro Enterprises Support Programmme CEO Trust Rebecca Amuhoye said they facilitated the organisation and coordination of various players to import the hybrid seeds in 2019. “Basically, we are very happy with this harvest and we are expecting higher yields from the hybrid coconut,” she said. She further said the initial number of farmers that benefited from the first batch was only 100, but they are planning to increase the number in the next phase. Green Employment in Agriculture programme manager Dorreen Kinoti said they were glad to be in Kilifi to launch the first harvest of the hybrid coconut variety. The organisation operates in 13 counties, including Kilifi. Kinoti said as a manager she was excited at the launch because the hybrid variety is able to yield more profits to farmers.  (edited by Amol Awuor)