Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki has picked Agriculture executive Njue Njagi as his running mate. Njuki had not officially announced his deputy, despite taking the name to the IEBC. The county boss unveiled Njagi on Saturday at Kairubi stadium in Chogoria town. He was accompanied by Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki, his Chuka Igambang'ombe counterpart Patrick Munene and UDA leaders in Tharaka Nithi. Njagi hails from Maara constituency, where he worked under Mbiuki as CDF manager and also as the Lands executive. Tharaka Nithi has three constituencies Tharaka Nithi, Maara and Chuka Igambang'ombe. To clinch the governor seat, one needs to win the support of at least two constituencies. Njuki, who is seeking a second term, trounced the former governor, Samuel Ragwa, in 2017. He said running a county is not an easy task and that is why they need running mates. "I am urging the people of Tharaka Nithi to look at Njagi's performance and not where he comes from," Njuki said. He said in 2013, when he became Chuka Igambang'ombe MP, Njagi was the CDF manager. He said when Nithi was being split into two, Njagi split the NG-CDF. "We used most of the CDF cash to build Kairubi stadium," Njuki said. Mbiuki described Njagi as a hardworking person, saying he oversaw more than 50,000 artificial insemination of dairy cows. Munene said Njuki found the county with no resources and should be given time, as he has improved health and built roads. He also said Njuki should concentrate on value addition, if re-elected. "He has built enough markets, he should look to see farmers in the county are the ones selling their produce there," Munene said. The legislator said Njagi will help the Njuki as he is also a renown farmer, who has led various farmers cooperatives. Deputy governor Francis Kagwima is also vying for top county seat. Kagwima, who is former Tharaka MP, had ambitions to become governor in the last poll but was convinced to step down for Njuki. Njuki has had a good working relationship with Kagwima. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)