The attention of the National Police Service has been drawn to remarks made in a public gathering by Hon. Cleophas Malala, Senator of Kakamega county whose net upshot is that police officers need not to be educated since the entry into the service only requires a candidate with "two hands and legs." which according to him, is the only requisite qualification to handle a firearm. We as the NPS fraternity, including our dear families and friends, are utterly disappointed with such unwarranted and outrageous remarks, which we find too demeaning and only aimed at scandalizing a noble profession deployed in the service of the good people. That, more disappointed we are as police, given that these unfortunate remarks were made by a leader we not only hold in high esteem but one we also continue to provide round-the-clock protection with pride and competency. Policing of communities is dependent on knowledge, and guns are only complementary tools to achieve efficiency of service, not otherwise. That for the avoidance of doubt, it is stressed here that the NPS is a professional entity composed of all cadres of Kenyans as envisaged by the Constitution of Kenya with respect to the diversity requirement and that the service comprises competent, professional, knowledgeable and highly skilled officers with the right disposition and attitude to police the challenges of the 21st century. It is in this vein that we continue to expand and enhance our collective capacities and capabilities as seen in current investments in fields such as forensic investigations, recruitment of technical skills within our ranks, and specialized training in areas such as transnational organized crime and counterterrorism amongst others. All these skills-set, which we are deliberately aimed at safeguardingour internal national security posture require a certain academic threshold than what is maliciously alluded to by the senator. It is therefore regrettable and a pity that these remarks came from a national leader still aspiring to lead. NPS take this opportunity to reassure all officers including Kenyans of goodwill to ignore such negative sentiments expressed by the Senator, which are only aimed at causing disaffection among officers of a security sector entity, and thus treat them with utter contempt that they deserve. The IG lauds the officers who covered the event's security for remaining calm and composed despite the grave humiliation that they encountered. Finally, the IG commits to continue professionalizing the Service as espoused by our vision in order to continue making a notable contribution toward the development of our beloved country.