General Service Unit's budding left attacker Joshua Kimaru says the chance to win trophies and don the national team colours informed his decision to join the paramilitary side. The 21-year-old, who joined GSU from Equity Bank at the start of the 2021-22Kenya Volleyball Federation league season, broke his silence for the first time. The all-action play was crafted as a replacement for Cornelius Kiplagat who left for Egypt in November last year before returning to the club in January. "GSU are on another level. There were a lot of offers for me but the chance to train and play alongside quality and experienced players, with the chance to learn and improve my game, was too hard to turn down," Kimaru said. The soft-spoken Kimaru further pointed out that he doesn't feel any pressure at all because he believes in his own qualities. "I believe in my traits. Competition for places here is high but honestly, there's no pressure at all. That's the last thing I would want to associate myself with. The players, technical bench and everyone associated with this historic club warmly welcomed me and made me feel at home from the first day," he said. GSU have won the last four national titles and are on course for a fifth. They have won all their five matches and conceded just one set in the process. "At 21, I am not worried at all. The idea is to keep improving but even training with these experienced players is a big motivation. The dream is to play in the African Club Volleyball championship which could be a stepping stone to the national team. I have all the resources I need to blossom so no excuses," Kimaru said. At the same time, GSU coach Gideon Tarus has challenged the quartet of Naftali Chumba, Bonfetry Wekesa, Nicholas Matui and Kimaru to advance their game to ease pressure on Kiplagat. The serial-winning and detail-oriented tactician, in his assessment of Kimaru, said the prodigy has done well in the first three legs but expects him to hit the ground running in the subsequent ones. "It has been a good start for him but there's more to come. He can receive, has the height and his basics are spot-on," Tarus said.