Kenyan WRC 3 and Junior WRC contender McRae Kimathi survived gravel scares at Vodafone Rally de Portugal where he hit a bank on stage 8 and  damaged his Ford Fiesta's front extensively. Kimathi, who is the only contender from Africa in the FIA competition, was nevertheless hoping to repair his M-Sport Poland-prepared car in order to restart Sunday's leg last leg. The Kenyan youngster attributed his Day 2 exit to a costly mistake but said he was determined to make up for it if he finally manages to restart Sunday. "Portugal was quite good for us. It was very rough, something similar to Kenya.We started off quite well. The pace was improving and was really good as the day wore on. We were lying third up to section seven.Then in section 8, I made a mistake and I just got caught out in the tough Portugal conditions," McRae narrated "So it was a bit of a shame. We had gotten a lot of pace here which was a good encouragement for me. Hopefully, we will get the car back home and get it fixed  and restart Sunday. "Explaining the damage, McRae said: "It was just the front that we damaged. It's a normal occurrence when you have these high sped accidents. This things happen. It was quite frightening," said Kimathi. Meanwhile, Sami Pajari was well on course towards his first FIA Junior WRC win of the season after surviving Friday’s deadly stages. Pajari grabbed an early lead after edging Jon Armstrong on Thursday evening at Coimbra super special, but dropped behind the Ulsterman in Friday’s opener. The Finn then lost over two minutes with a puncture at Góis and trailed Armstrong by one min 32.7sec at the midday. Armstrong later retired from the huge lead when a rear suspension arm sheared on his M-Sport Poland Ford Fiesta Rally3, promoting Pajari back in front with a huge margin. He went on to win each of the remaining stages before rounding off the leg in three minutes 38.5sec clear at the top. Croatia Rally winner Lauri Joona was Pajari’s nearest challenger. The Finn could well have been leading were it not for a problem on SS7 which cost him  two minutes 44.4sec. Robert Virves was the only other finisher.