Politicians gunning for seats in Trans Nzoia  have called for peaceful campaigns ahead of the August 9 General Election. Speaking at the National Museums of Kenya in Kitale after presenting their papers,  the leaders urged those seeking political seats to restrain from making utterances that could jeopardise peaceful co-existence. Former Trans Nzoia Senator Henry Ole Ntiema asked citizens not to be incited into causing violence by selfish politicians. “Do not be incited by anyone to cause violence. It is you and your children who will suffer at the end. The politicians inciting you to sit, eat and drink together with their  children know each other and so do not let political differences during campaigns push you to violence,” Ntiema said. He challenged his competitors to preach peace during their election campaigns, noting that nothing can be achieved in the absence of peace. “Peace for Trans Nzoia is peace for the whole country because all communities live and do business here in Trans Nzoia," he said. He blasted Jubilee Party and some officials of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries commission for allegedly conniving to deny him victory during the election petition he launched. "It is an open secret that my victory was stolen by those who plotted against me. The Jubilee Party did an evil thing against me, nevertheless I’m confident of winning back my seat," he said. His UDA competitor Allan Chesang also called for political tolerance during the campaign period which according to him had started in earnest. "I want to thank the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for clearing me as a candidate for the August 9 election. My competitors must commit themselves to carry out campaigns peacefully," he said. ANC senatorial aspirant Martin Wakoli Bulimo, who was cleared by the electoral commission, warned political players against fuelling disruptions of their competitor’s campaigns. "There is a bad tendency of destroying election posters of competitors, heckling, harassing and molesting candidates and their supporters. This retrogressive mannerism should end immediately," he said. Former Saboti MP David Wafula Lazaro said politicians eying the constituency seat must assure residents that they will not be the weakest link in the moral fabric. With the polls tightening in less than 80 days of the August 9 elections, the former MP said he is fully prepared for a tight contest to reclaim back the seat currently held by Caleb Amisi of ODM. Wafula, after carrying the scars of the 2017 loss in the then Jubilee Party primaries said he is more cautiousin approaching the campaigns which he said he is in not just to compete but to win. The incumbent MP Amisi called upon his competitors to carry out campaigns peacefully. He said anyone who will try sounding drums of war during the electioneering period should be asked to account for his or her actions. The MP said agencies tasked with peace, cohesion, law and order and smooth electoral processes should endeavour to work in tandem. This can forestall any divisions by politicians and their supporters out to get into political office through unorthodox  means. He expressed confidence that he will be reelected back to complete his development agenda of emancipating residents of the cosmopolitan constituency from the shackles of poverty, servitude and hopelessness. "One way to fully emancipate our society from poverty, servitude and hopelessness is through education which is an equaliser for both children from poor and rich backgrounds. I'm not better than anybody because I’m where I am because of those who assisted me," he said. Endebess MP Robert Pukose who presented his papers at the Endebess constituency Independent electoral and Boundaries Commission offices also called for peaceful campaigns. The legislator is defending his seat on Deputy President William Ruto’s united Democratic Alliance Party UDA ticket. He challenged his competitors to desist from divisive political campaigns which he said had in the past threatened peaceful coexistence in the cosmopolitan constituency. “The country has been disrupted every election year because of divisive political campaigns and disputed election results,” he said. Independent party candidate Pius Gumo also presented his papers and called for peaceful campaigns.  He, however, urged residents of the cosmopolitan constituency to put political party interests aside and give him an opportunity to serve them as their representative in Parliament. “I’m ready to serve all residents of Endebess irrespective of their political party's inclinations to better the lives of everyone. Do not vote along tribal lines but vote for change," he said. He said his priority will be to ensure that his constituents, especially the youth, get an education to enable them secure jobs and promote development in the region. The young Gumo pledged to prioritise education to reduce illiteracy levels in the constituency; he said funds from the constituency kitty had done little for residents. “Where has the  money from the constituency development kitty for needy children been used ? The money has been paying fees for learners from the neighbouring country," he said. Three parliamentary aspirants who want to fill the Kiminini parliamentary seat left by Ford Kenya Secretary general Chris Wamalwa also called for peaceful campaigns ahead of the 9 August elections. The three, Democratic Action Party’s Maurice Kakai wa Bisau, Joseph Wafula  Mutunga  (Ford Kenya) and Engineer Paul Khisa (ODM) committed themselves to conducting their campaigns peacefully. (Edited by V. Graham)