Kenya Simbas face South African provincial outfit, Leopards, and EP Elephants in the Currie Cup next month at the RFUEA ground. The national 15-a-side team have been in South Africa for the past one month but will play their final two fixtures on home soil in a joint venture between Kenya and South Africa Rugby Union courtesy of  Direct Sports Management. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Oduor Gangla, hailed the move as ideal for Rugby fans who have been starved of international Rigby action. "This will be an opportunity for Rugby fans to see two elite competitive matches on home soil just before the team embarks on the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in France in July," he said. The Simbas have lost three of their opening matches in the Currie Cup,  going down 51-14 to Valke, 22-21 to Zimbabwe, and 66-33 to Griffon RFC. Gangla is optimistic that playing at home for the Simbas in front of a full house will be ideal. "Playing at home will be an added advantage, especially with the support from fans who will cheer them to victory," added Gangla. Leopards RFC chief executive officer, Eugene Fourie, and Eastern Province Rugby CEO Thambo Manana, said they were looking forward to bringing their franchises to Nairobi. "It will be an honour to come to this great city and sample the best Nairobi has to offer. We know your rugby fans are very passionate and we hope we can build on this relationship which we hope can last for a long period of time," said Fourie. Simbas' head coach Paul Odera lauded the move to host the final two games of the Currie Cup at home. "The team is delighted with the news to play at home in front of our fans.  It's been almost a year since we last played a home match and we are relishing the challenge of playing against top-quality opposition," added Odera. The Simbas play their fourth match of the Currie Cup on Saturday when they face Border Bulldogs at the Old Selbornian Stadium in East London. Kenyans are using the Currie Cup as preparation for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers in France where they face Uganda in the quarterfinal on July 2.