An organisation, Keeping Alive Societies Hope,  has launched an application to enhance access to justice for the marginalised people. The App dubbed PATA HAKI is intended to offer justice, health services as well as socio-economic empowerment at no cost to the vulnerable members of the society. PATA HAKI is an application available in the play store that incorporates the paralegal team trained to offer conclusive lawsuit services to the members of the society who cannot these services. The European Union and United Nations Development Programme- Amkeni Wakenya have funded the initiative. An officer from KASH Stephen Oguna said while coming up with the application, they have gone ahead to involve clinicians’ services more so to tackle issues related to sexual and Gender-Based Violence cases across the country. The app also targets female sex workers, law enforcers and security agents, alcohol and drug addicts, vulnerable groups like youth and young women and marginalised community members. Oguna said the app is community-centred as it does not require an advanced level of education to access. The app uses basic protocols to enable the users to easily register and use it anytime. “We developed Pata Haki during Covid-19 when the level of reporting of cases had reduced because the country had shut down everything and we had restrictions to almost everything including movement and court services,” Oguna said. He said even though the app can only be used by those who have smartphones, plans are underway to inculcate a USSD code for those who are using feature phones in order to reach a majority of the people who would benefit from these services. "The app is made to focus on confidentiality, transparency and accountability of the victims to improve the quality of services rendered to the marginalised population commonly using this app in our society." Oguna said they have partnered with government health facilities, Kenya police and civil society organisations for networking and sharing issues of legal concern. KASH which is based in Kisumu, has continued to engage in activities in order to achieve its mission whereby civic education, community policing, paralegal and community outreach services and capacity building are its main agenda.   -Edited by SKanyara