The civil society and religious leaders in Siaya on Wednesday held a peaceful march to decry escalating incidences of insecurity in the county. The demonstrators said that there are increased burglary incidences targeting small enterprises, cold blood killings, sexual and physical assaults. They handed over their petition to the County Commissioner’s office, detailing the names of those who have been abducted, killed and/or sexually and physically assaulted. Apart from the 30 bodies that were retrieved from River Yala recently, the rights crusaders cited the recent killing and assault of other citizens across Siaya county. The victims, they said, included Salim Opanya, a 28-year-old bread vendor in Bondo town, and Brian Ochieng Adhiambo, 19, who was abducted and murdered in Uranga. Opany and Ochieng were killed on May 13, 2022, and April 14, 2022, respectively. Others were four watchmen and cousins who were killed in Siranga in 2021 and Fredrick Oduor Baraza, 43, also a watchman, who was killed in Sega trading centre in August 2020. They also advocated for the rights of Mary Maurine, 23, who is a Gender-based Violence champion and a student at Siaya Institute of Technology. Maurine was physically assaulted by a thuggish bodaboda operator on May 16, 2022, in Siaya town. Another person they demanded justice for is a rape survivor who is currently fighting for her life at Siaya County Referral Hospital. “In the last few months, there have been alarming cases of gross human rights violations but the State has not come out to clear on who is behind those murders and assaults,” their petition read in part. The rights activists said that families of victims and survivors are in constant fear and distress but the police only say that “no stone shall be left unturned”. The majority of the cases presented to the county security chairman had OB numbers attached to them; meaning they were reported. Alego-Usonga Deputy County Commissioner Enock Nyarango, who received the petition on behalf of his boss, Jim Njoka, lauded the protesters for their bold step in defending people’s rights. However, he urged the protestors to be friends with the police and avail intelligent information so that the criminals can be ambushed and arrested. “Let us not wait for an incident to occur then we start blaming the police. The government is for the security of people and property in Siaya county. It is a challenge to us to bolster our efforts and serve better,” Nyarango said. Alego Usonga deputy police commander Charles Odhiambo informed them that “security starts with you”, further mentioning that patrols and ambushes have been upscaled. “Day and night patrols have been upscaled. We are working very hard to eliminate all evil practices; let us just collaborate. Feed us with information to enable us, net criminals,” Odhiambo told the protesters. On Tuesday, pastors converged at Rock Creek Victory Church grounds in Uranga, to discuss the insecurity situation in Siaya and self-reflect on the tragedy that has befallen their church. The slain Opany and Ochieng we members of the church at its branches in Bondo and Uranga, respectively. Led by Arch Bishop James Opiyo, the clergymen decried the deteriorating state of security in the county. “Of recent, violence has been meted against our church. We have lost two of our young people who were burning for Christ. We condemn these acts and call for meaningful police investigations,” Opiyo said. He said that members of his church, which has 58 branches across Kenya, are living in fear following the abduction and murder of their colleagues. Opiyo noted that last week, a shop belonging to a crippled widow and a member of his church was broken into in Uranga and money between Sh70,000 to Ksh100,000 was stolen. “Fortunately, the widow was not in the shop, otherwise she would have been assaulted and even killed. We appeal to the county commissioner to assure us of our security,” Opiyo said. Activist Fredrick Odhiambo Ojiro said police have failed their mandate. “It is a big shame that the police take these cases casually. Police are only arresting young people arbitrarily then demanding unlawful fees from them to secure their release,” Ojiro said.