Residents of Maella in Naivasha have urged the Lands ministry and the county to hasten demarcating the boundary between Nakuru and Narok counties. They say the lack of delineation has resulted in confusion, hostility and clashes. Residents attribute perennial conflicts between communities of the two counties to failure to identify the borders. For the last couple of years, residents of the two counties have clashed over land ownership despite a promise that the Ministry of Lands would resolve the issue. However, Land chief officer in Nakuru Judy Leah Waihenya said the demarcation of the boundary had begun. She blamed the delay on the lack of official documentation and maps, saying the department of Surveys was addressing the problem. “We had started the process of marking the boundary between these two counties and this stalled briefly but we are now back on track,” she said. Waihenya said the rehabilitation of Maella Hills on the border of the two counties had also started. Speaking at the weekend, area leader Kariuki Mujing’a said failure to address the problem had created unnecessary anxiety. Mujing’a urged the county and the department of Surveys to hurry, saying land disputes were increasing. “Some people are straying into other people's land on allegations  there is no boundary and this is raising unnecessary tension,” he said. Meanwhile, police in Naivasha arrested more than 10 squatters who had invaded land belonging to former CBK Governor Benjamin Kipkulei in Ndabibi area. More than 200 others fled as security was intensified in the village 50km from Naivasha town. Naivasha deputy county commissioner Mutua Kisilu said some of the squatters had occupied the land for the last six months. He said the group had been given until the end of the season to harvest their crops before vacating. “This land is over 4,000 acres and most of it is not fenced but we have managed to kick out the new squatters and arrested several of them,” he said. The land has been under dispute between the farmers and Kipkulei. The farmers claimed part of the land was set aside for the construction of churches and schools but Kipkulei said he bought it from the Agricultural Development Corporation. (Edited by V. Graham)