Mosiro in Kajiado County will play host to the 33rd edition of the annual conservation fundraising motorsport event— Rhino Charge, according to oerganisers. Musiro is rocky on virgin land in the wildest west of Kajiado and is the most ideal area for such an event, according to the organizers. The location is on the boundary of Kajiado and Narok counties. The secret venue was announced to the public on Monday night and included in the route notes to the event ticket holders.  A total of 56 cars out of a potential 65 cars have been registered to participate in this year’s race. In the last 33 years of existence, Rhino Charge has emerged as one of the most inspirational home-grown initiatives to raise funds in support of Rhino Ark Charitable Trust’s work that addresses conservation challenges facing Kenya’s mountain forests. In addition to funds raised by the competitors for the work of the Rhino Ark Charitable Trust, the proceeds from the vehicle entry fee (also known as the Landowners Access Fee paid by all vehicles entering the venue) will go towards supporting host community priority projects. Usually, such projects have included the building of schools or dispensary infrastructure, water tanks, and strengthening security. Therefore, this year’s beneficiary will be the community of Mosiro in Kajiado County. The actual amount of money will be determined by the vehicle entry fee collected at the end of the event. Employment Besides the direct cash contribution derived from the Landowners Access Fee, the Rhino Charge provides short-term employment opportunities to the local communities who get engaged in the preparation of the venue, as well as in supporting the running of the event. The Charge also helps to profile the tourism and conservation potentials of the host area. Last year’s Charge in Baringo County raised Sh5.07 million for the Sabor and Bekibon host communities. In the recent past, Sh 4.7 million and Sh 4.62 million were given to the host communities in Nannapa Conservancy (Isiolo County) and Naikarra and Olderkesi group ranches (Narok County), respectively. “We are very indebted to the many communities who have kindly hosted the events over the past 33 years,” said Clerk of the Course Don White. "It is our firm commitment that they benefit substantially from the event, not only in terms of temporary employment but also in terms of direct support to community projects, such as school classrooms or boreholes, added White. “The host community is an essential partner in the preparation and running of the charge, without which we wouldn’t be able to get the event off the ground,” White said. The Rhino Charge is organised to raise funds for the conservation activities of the Rhino Ark Charitable Trust. Some of the sponsors for this year's event are—AutoXpress, Boskovic Air Charter, Chloride Exide, I&M Bank, KIDL Helicopter, KK Security, Tarpo and TotalEnergies among others. Key dates for 2022 Rhino Charge: