Perpetrators of hate speech have been cautioned as the government launches a nationwide efforts to hunt them down ahead of the August 9 general election. The National Commission and Integration Commission in partnership with the European Union will open multi-media communication centres to go after culprits instigating and promoting violence on social media. Speaking during the launch of Propeace Kenya Campaign on Friday, NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia warned politicians and Kenyans who fan violence and hate of dire consequences. “In history, there is no genocide of mass killing that has not been presided by hate speech. That is where it all starts,” Kobia said. “These utterances are what start wars… You cannot hide behind screens anymore.” The multimedia centres, the commission stated, are programmed and will be set up countrywide giving special focus on violence hotspots areas to ensure that the August polls are peaceful. “The media centres are will act as watchdogs for the government by monitoring physical and social media activities and maintaining close contact with residents to report hate speech,” Kobia said. Kobia said the project will give key focus on training operators of the communication centres and peace ambassadors to promote peace. “We want partnerships that go beyond 2022 to ensure a culture of peace even after elections,” he said. The campaign comes barely a month after the Commission released a list of Swahili, English and vernacular phrases which it said amount to hate speech. Slang words such as hatupangwingwi, madoadoa, kama mbaya mbaya, fumigation, operation linda kura and mende were marked as hate phrases. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi called out leaders who practice politics of handouts and manipulation to promote violence. “Political groups often use violence to express their grievances through persuasion, manipulation, payment and other ways,” he said. Matiang'i said ethnic incitement is a tool used by rogue politicians and media houses. He urged NCIC,registrar of political parties, Kenya National Commission of Human Rights, Media Council of Kenya, the private sector, civil society and the government partners to work together to ensure there is peace in the coming poll. (Edited by Tabnacha O)