Homicide detectives have arrested a father and stepmother after the death of a six-year-old girl in Emali, Makueni County. Beverly Mumo Musyoki met her death on August 24, 2020, and on Sunday, detectives arrested her father Robinson Musyoki and stepmother Rose Muteti. Detectives at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations conducted fresh investigations into the murder, which had earlier been dismissed as the work of powers of darkness. According to Beverly’s biological mother, Naomi Kiamba, she learnt of the death of her daughter through a phone call from her ex-husband, who called her on October 24, 2020, and informed her that he was headed to Montezuma Funeral Home since their daughter had fallen sick and died. "Kiamba rushed to the funeral home where the lifeless body of her daughter lay," DCI reported. A report issued then by the chief government pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor indicated that the cause of death was blunt force trauma. DCI said that following a bitter separation of Mumo's parents, a children’s court directed that Musyoki stays with the children for one month from October 29, 2019, to December 5, 2020, before returning them to their mother. "That was the last time Kiamba saw her daughter alive, since her ex-husband, an engineer at the Kenya Pipeline, never returned the children and stopped picking up her calls," DCI added. Unknown to her, Musyoki is said to have married another woman and moved in with her in an unknown location, DCI said. Kiamba went back to court on December 16, 2019, and obtained a warrant of arrest against Musyoki which was served to the OCS Industrial Area police station. "Musyoki was nowhere to be found until almost a year later when he called Naomi with the devastating news of their daughter’s demise," the detectives reported. On Monday, the detectives said they had established that Mumo's 11-year-old brother who is a key witness in the case had received threats to his life. The two suspects are currently at the Machakos High court facing murder charges.