Eight police officers are set to be arraigned for various offences, including murder and assault. This follows investigations by the Independent Policing Oversight Authority. In a statement on Monday, IPOA said the offences are from across the country. In Migori, the court issued summonses against four police officers and directed the County Commander to ensure they appear in court on June 7, 2022. The officers are charged with murder following the death of Daniel Weisiko Moi, who succumbed to injuries he sustained during a police operation to recover stolen livestock at Nyabukarange in Kuria West District on January 26, 2016. Two other police officers have also been charged with assault after investigations by IPOA established that Thomas Monanka Mwita sustained injuries in his chest and private parts. IPOA suspects the injuries were inflicted by gun butts and kicks. The incident happened at Kehancha township, on Kehancha – Migori Road on June 5, 2019. The Constables face an extra charge of disobeying summons issued by IPOA. They are expected to appear in court and to take a plea on June 9, 2022. In Kisii, the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) has directed the County Police Commander to present Police Constable Vincent Cheruiyot Langat within fourteen (14) days, at the local law court, where he is facing a murder charge. The directive was given on May 24, 2022. IPOA launched this investigation following the death of Charles Onditi Omwancha at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital, where he was being treated for injuries he sustained at Club 23 in Ramasha Trading Centre. In Homa Bay, the ODPP has directed the area Police Commander to ensure Corporal Phaminus Kariuki is in court on June 7, 2022, to answer to a murder charge. It follows the Authority’s investigation into the shooting to death of  Samuel Odongo Lusion on July 21, 2015. During the incident, officers from Rangwe Police Station are said to have been undertaking an operation at Andu village. The operation targetted individuals engaged in the illicit brew trade. All the cases were registered in court on orders of the ODPP, which independently reviewed the investigation files and concurred with IPOA’s findings and recommendations, including that the evidence unearthed is sufficient to sustain criminal prosecutions in court.