The Jubilee Party has finally issued the Kangema MP ticket after weeks of contention among aspirants. On April 21, the party issued tickets to Murang’a aspirants after days of deliberations led by a panel that was headed by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia. In Kangema constituency, the ticket was issued to newcomer George Kibuku, sparking protests from the incumbent Muturi Kigano. Kigano, a staunch supporter of the Jubilee government and the current chairperson of the Justice and Legal Affairs committee in the National Assembly, is said to have stormed the party’s headquarters demanding for the repetition of the consensus process. This forced the party to suspend the ticket to allow for more talks with the two aspirants until Thursday when Jubilee eventually gave the certificate back to Kibuku. Kigano's popularity was reportedly far below that of Kibuku, forcing the party to forego him. The party was conducting opinion polls to determine the most popular candidate to ensure tickets were awarded to the best candidates. Kibuku lauded the party for giving him the ticket saying it indicated that he was the most viable candidate. He also praised the MP for agreeing to step down despite his gruelling fight for the ticket. “The MP has fought a good fight but after numerous deliberations, he agreed to allow me to be the party’s candidate and said he would support me to ensure we get the seat,” he said. Further, he defended the party’s decision to use scientific methods to determine the most popular candidates who will represent the party in the August 9, election. The method, he said, which included opinion polls, is common in some developed nations and saves a party the expense of having to conduct primaries. While addressing journalists on Thursday, Kibuku pleaded with the losers to continue supporting the party to sustain its strength. His supporters led by Judy Muthoga praised Kibuku as a youthful leader whose vision is to transform the constituency, especially in education. The constituency, she said, has been having challenges of bursary distribution saying the aspirant, whose foundation is already sponsoring hundreds of students, will streamline it. “Our constituency needs a leader who will focus on infrastructure and help empower coffee and tea farmers,” she said. The aspirant will battle it out for the MP seat with Peter Kihungi (UDA), Simon Karema (The Service Party), Duncan Mwangi (Usawa Kwa Wote Party) and Julia Nyokabi (DP). The party also issued tickets to Joseph Nduati (Gatanga), Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo), Karanja Wamatangi (Kiharu), Anthony Chege (Maragua) and Peter Kimari (Mathioya). 