BY ROBERT OMOLLO @robertomollo3 The mother of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno whose brutal murder in 2019 raised national uproar has picked Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party to seek the Homa Bay Woman Representative seat. Melida Auma is among dozens of candidates the party has fielded in the region largely regarded as ODM leader Raila Odinga's stronghold. UDA gave Auma a direct ticket. Auma joined the group of other aspirants who want to succeed Gladys Wanga. Wanga is not defending her seat and is seeking to succeed Cyprian Awiti as governor. The other candidates vying for the woman rep post are Mary Ojode of DAP-K, Molline Ngala (Independent), Joyce Osogo (ODM), Tabitha Nyandiek (Independent) and Elizabeth Ogweno (Independent). Auma’s official entry into the race was marked by the launch of her campaign in Homa Bay town on Monday. She pledged to solve economic challenges affecting women, the youth and persons with disabilities in Homa Bay. Auma urged residents to choose candidates based on their leadership credentials rather than their parties. “We will get it wrong if we consider tickets of political parties. Let it be known that a ticket is just a piece of paper but what is significant is the person who wants to ascend to a leadership position,” Auma said. The campaign launch was attended by youths and women. She promised to promote bottom-up economic model in the county, a proposed public policy that her party is propagating. “I believe in economic empowerment of the common man directly. Empowerment works better if it starts from the low-income earners,” Auma said. She banks on the support of traders, farmers and people with low income in the society. Auma is one of the pioneer members of UDA. Her free ticket came after some five aspirants who were competing with her withdrew at the last minute before UDA nomination. This left her as the only aspirant for the party. She promised to establish a Savings and Credit Co-operative society that will enable women in the county to save and set up businesses. UDA aspirants for Homa Bay East ward Gabriel Omondi, and Joseph Kachuanya (Homa Bay West ) were among the leaders who attended the launch.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris