Garissa governor aspirant Dekow Mohamed has promised to give the county a fresh start if elected. Mohamed, who will be vying on a UDA ticket, said he wants to give the county a new beginning after what he says are wasted years since the advent of devolution. The aspirant spoke on Tuesday in Masalani town where he also unveiled his running mate Abdi Amin. In terms of clan matrix, Mohamed comes from the Awdhaq clan as incumbent Ali Korane and risk splitting votes. Political pundits say Mohamed's candidature therefore gives former governor Nathif Jama an added advantage. Other clans are the Awlihan and Samawadhal. The Samawadhal who are predominant in Ijara subcounty have always been used as swing votes. Mohamed, a businessman and a former military officer, said time has come for political mistakes in Garissa to be corrected and radical transformative changes made. He toured Ijara, Ruqa, Geriley, Hulugho, Sangailu and Galmagala where he met with several communities and sub-clans. The aspirant said he met people who have been betrayed and neglected by their own leaders, specifically the Garissa government under the last two governors. “The level of underdevelopment and suffering of our people, with the amount of resources we have received in their name is incomprehensible. It is plain robbery. "It is very immoral to just see these people as a collection of clans and voting blocs. These are human beings with lives and feelings and in whose name our leaders receive massive resources, which do not reach them,” he said. Mohamed said pregnant mothers are being ferried to Hola for delivery yet Hola is in a different county, which receives far less than what Garissa receives annually. “Can we sink any lower than that? This is a very dark chapter in our history, that we must rewrite. It cannot be ignored. “Sadly, the people who orchestrated this failure, mismanaged resources of poor communities and don’t even understand the level of suffering, are seeking re-election,” he said. Mohamed said in 10 years, Garissa county received Sh80 billion, the highest since independence. He said he aims to work for the people and help communities access clean water, healthcare and build a firm foundation for children. The aspirant said he will also create employment and self-reliance opportunities for the youth, support small businesses and increase agricultural and livestock productivity. He said this was possible with Sh80 billion. "Unfortunately, our leaders immersed themselves in luxury. They made numerous fruitless travels to Nairobi and overseas and gave themselves posh lifestyles, while the people suffered. And now, they want to continue," Mohamed said. He however said all is not lost and urged residents to join his team in changing things adding that the revolution is in their hands. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)