National champions KCB have been pitted against Western Bulls, Kabras, and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology in a tricky Pool A of the Kabeberi Sevens this  Saturday at the RFUEA ground. KCB Sevens' coach Dennis Mwanja said the pool is wide open and they are relishing the challenge of facing the three sides. “It's wide open. We don't know how teams have done their pre-season. On our part, we are ready for the tournament and we have had a solid buildup for the last one month. We can't wait for our first match, ” added Mwanja. The 2019 runners-up and hosts Mwamba have a date with Nondescripts, Strathmore Leos, and Mean Machine in Pool B. Mwamba open their campaign against Mean Machine before taking on Strathmore and final preliminary match against Nondies. Strathmore coach Louis Kisia, whose outfit won the Embu Sevens a fortnight ago, said his charges are expecting a tough test. “It's going to be quite competitive. The boys are well prepared and the teams we are pitted against will go all out to win,” added Kisia. A youthful Homeboyz outfit meet fast-rising Menengai Oilers, Kenya Harlequin, and Blak Blad in Pool C. The Deejays, under the tutelage of former international Oscar Ayodi, said they face a steep learning curve but are prepared for the tough clashes that await. “It's a competitive pool and we know teams like Oilers played pre-season and Quins have a new coach and Blak Blad can spring a surprise,” added Ayodi. Pool D features Nakuru, Impala Northern Suburbs and Daystar Falcons. The top two teams in each pool will qualify for the Main Cup quarterfinals while the teams that finish third and fourth will drop to the classification matches. The Division two category has attracted 24 teams which will be played in six pools of four teams. The winner of the category will be promoted to the top tier for the Christie Sevens at the end of the month with the bottom-placed team in the top tier dropping to the second tier category. The circuit has returned after two-year hiatus caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.