AFC Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems was full of rosy words for his charges, who dealt Kakamega Homeboyz' title charge a huge blow after stunning them 2-0 at Bukhungu Stadium on Sunday. Collins Shivachi grabbed the lead barely three minutes into the proceedings before a splendid 54th-minute strike by Nigerian forward Ojo Olaniyi compounded Homeboyz' woes. “We pulled off the best performance of the season and I believe we are very much in contention for a top-five finish,” Aussems said after the match. “All we need to do now is replicate this kind of form in our subsequent fixtures and we shall have a gift for our fans at the end of the season,” he added. The Belgian's counterpart, Bernard Mwalala, said his charges exhibited signs of fatigue throughout the demanding encounter. “It's obvious we are gradually giving in to fatigue after a tough season. However, we are still in the race and I believe we can collect maximum points from our remaining match,” Mwalala said. Following the outcome, Homeboyz remain level on 57 points with leaders Tusker who enjoy a healthier goal difference. Meanwhile, ten-man Gor Mahia rallied from two goals down to edge Nairobi City Stars 3-2 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Gor were reduced to 10 men in the 76th minute when custodian Gad Mathews was sent for an early shower after handling the ball outside his area. Skipper Anthony 'Muki' Kimani fired City Stars into the lead with a 33rd-minute strike only for Samuel Onyango to restore parity nine minutes later. Youngster Timothy Ouma then fired Simba wa Nairobi back into the lead in the 46th minute. However, Benson Omala pounced on a loose ball in the area to level terms again before Denis Wanjala turned the ball into his own net with seven minutes remaining on the clock. The outcome has fired Gor to fourth on the log with 51 points. Debutants Talanta stunned Kariobangi Sharks 2-0 at Ruaraka Grounds. The win powered Talanta to 11th with 43 points while Sharks are sixth with 44. Bidco United piled misery on Wazito after beating them 2-0 at Nyayo. Following the defeat, Wazito have been left dangling precariously on the edge of relegation given they are second from the bottom with 25 points, four better of tail-enders Vihiga Bullets. Bidco are 14th with 33 points.