The man who was shot and killed by an assailant in broad daylight in the Mirema area, Kasarani was under probe over, among others, fraud. Samuel Mugo Mugota aged 49 was under investigation for bank fraud and forgery of identification documents. Police said they found seven different identification documents in his car, some of which had been reported as stolen. One complainant had told police her identification and bank documents found in the car were used to syphon her bank account of Sh360,000. According to police, this was one of the cases reported to them and he was on their radar over SIM swapping crime and 'wash-wash' racket. Mugota was May 16 shot while on the driver's seat of his Honda CRV car. A postmortem done on his body at the City Mortuary confirmed he died out of excessive bleeding. He had six bullet wounds on his body and specifically in the chest. The body was handed over to the family who refused to talk to journalists at the mortuary. Police handling the case said Mugota also operated a gang in the Kasarani area that targeted revellers in bars for stupefying. There has been a spike in cases of stupefying in the area with the victims losing their valuables and cash. He had in 2019 been arrested by officers from the defunct Flying Squad and Kasarani police stations in Nairobi for fraud but was not charged. “The documents stolen from revellers were used to commit fraud but it was then difficult to prove a case in court,” said an investigator. At least two witnesses of the shooting- a man and woman- have been questioned over the incident. Mugota was shot after he had dropped a woman on the estate. Kasarani Sub-County Police Commander Peter Mwanzo said the body had been handed over to the family for them to decide when to bury as investigations go on. Mugota was shot at least six times, according to the police. CCTV footage that captured the shooting showed the lone gunman approaching the deceased’s car before he opened fire at close range using a pistol. Mugota’s car was moving at a slow pace on a murram road and the gunman had alighted from a salon car which was about 50 meters ahead waiting to take off after the mission was completed. The car stalled soon after the gunman had completed the mission and ran back to the getaway car in the 1 pm drama. Police who arrived at the scene said they found the engine running. They ransacked the car and body and found him with seven identification documents. Family members who had seen the incident on social media later went to the Kasarani police station and identified him. The shooting came hours after another convict Joseph Mwangi, 25, was shot dead in the Kioi area of Kayole in Nairobi by unknown men. Police said they do not know who was behind the incident and the motive. In Mihangó, the body of a man was found on the roadside with multiple injuries. The man is said to have been dumped at the scene on Tuesday morning. In the Obama area, a man was found dead with stab wounds in the collar bone. The man seemed to have been attacked by unknown people and left at the scene. Another man was found dead in an open field in the Zimmerman area with head injuries. The man was found with two pliers, a tester, chalk and nails indicating he was a carpenter or mechanic.