Fresh from winning the  1,500 m at the Doha Diamond League, Abel Kipsang will be seeking to continue with his good form at the Birmingham meeting on Saturday. Kipsang, who clocked 3:35.70 to beat World champion and Olympic silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot to second place, starts favourite in the three and half-lap race and will have Charles Simotwo for company. He will be up against the Australia trio of  Oliver Hoare, Stewart Mcsweyn and Matthew Ramsden; Ethiopian Teferi Samuel and Erik Sowinski of the United States of America. Commonwealth Games 800m champion Wycliff Kinyamal will renew his rivalry with Olympic silver medallist Ferguson Rotich. Rotich finished fourth in Doha after clocking a sluggish 1:50.48 and will be hoping to win the event as preparations for the Commonwealth Games and World Championship Trials next month gain pace. Others to look out for include Clayton Murphy of the USA and Jake Wightman of Great Britain. Africa 1500m champion Winny Chebet faces a tough field in the 800m. She will be up against Laura Muir of Britain, and the Ethiopian duo of Embaye Axumwit and Welbyi Diribe and Katie Snowden of England. Jackline Chepngeno faces a baptism of fire in the women's 5,000m when she faces in-form Burundian Francine Niyonsaba in a competitive field. Niyonsaba held off Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Chepngetich last week in Doha in a thrilling 3000m race and will fancy her chances of winning her second race of the season. Others to look out for include the Ethiopian quartet of Feysa Hawi, Dawit Seyaum, Taye Ejgaheyu and Worku Fantu. Cristina Ruiz from Spain and Rose Davies from Australia are some of the athletes entered for the 12-lap raced Olympic 200m champion Andre De Grasse (CAN), a multiple Olympic and world medallist, headlines a men’s 100m field that includes former Olympic and world relay champion Yohan Blake (Jamaica) and former world indoor champion Trayvon Bromell (USA). Reigning European champion Britain's Zharnel Hughes alongside Reece Prescod will also join the field.