A middle-aged woman has shocked many in an Eldoret court after she pleaded with the judge to jail her son until she dies. Selly Rotich said her family has never known peace because the son is a troublemaker. The mother said jailing her only son will be the only solution for the family to know peace. She shed tears before Eldoret senior resident Magistrate Christine Menya pleading with her to grant the put the son in custody. "As parents of one son, the only child, we have never enjoyed peace in th family for the last ten years," Rotich said. Rotich told the court their son Nelson Rotich always turns violent against them. "He has been attacking and beating us until my husband is forced to flee leaving me at the mercy of my own violent son", she said. The son has previously served a two years jail term but Rotich said he has never changed. She begged the court not to release the son until her death for her to enjoy life while the son is in custody. “Please I beg this court not to release this boy until after I die. At least I will enjoy life before I die then you can release him", she said. She said her life was in danger due to attacks by her son. Due to the son's violent nature, the father was forced to flee to Mombasa for safety. Neighbours have also shunned the home because of the violence. “No neighbour can intervene whenever we are attacked. He has threatened even the neighbours. Rotich made the stunning demand during a plea talking to her 33-year-old son Nelson Kiptoo Limo who is charged with threatening to kill his mother while armed with a panga. The court heard that on April 23, at Lemok village in Kapseret Sub County while armed with a panga he uttered these words I will kill you today and whoever will witness the killing, I will also kill him, words which were directed to his mother Selly Rotich. The prosecution told the court that the words were meant to instil fear in Ms Rotich. The accused denied the charge before the senior resident Magistrate. The Magistrate ordered a probation report before determining whether he can be released on bond or not. “I have heard your concerns as a parent and this court cannot make a decision to deny the accused bond before receiving a probation report. I do order for probation report before making a ruling on his release on bond,” ruled the Magistrate. On the issue of jailing the accused till the death of the parents, the court directed the complainant to raise the issues during the hearing The case will be mentioned on May 23.