The independent candidate for Ndhiwa parliamentary seat Michael Agwanda has urged voters to reject incumbent Martin Owino over underperformance. Agwanda addressed supporters at Posta grounds in Ndhiwa town on Monday. He said the constituency had lagged behind in development because the legislator failed to implement projects that could improve livelihoods. Ahead of the 2017 polls, Owino pledged to support education of needy students through provision of bursary funds without discrimination. He also promised to build modern classrooms and improve dilapidated infrastructure in schools. Ndhiwa is one of the populous constituencies in Homa Bay county. It consists of seven wards with more than 105,000 registered voters. “We voted him with a promise to improve education standards of our people but he has failed. Ndhiwa has stagnated because of wrong leadership,” Agwanda said. He unsuccessfully contested against Owino for ODM ticket in the primaries. He went independent, saying ODM rigged him out during the nominations on April 14. He said time has come for residents to vote for a person who has their interest at heart. “Don’t be hoodwinked and vote because of a party but elect someone who can bring you development. We have tried Owino and he has failed,” he said. Former MP Agostino Neto is also fighting to reclaim the seat on United Green Movement ticket. Clan politics are expected to take centre stage as Agwanda banks on the Kwabwai, Kanyikela and Kanyadoto wards. Neto seeks to consolidate Kabuoch North and Kabuoch South wards. Owino has focused on the Kanyamwa Kologi and Kanyamwa Kosewe wards. In his campaign tour, Agwanda made stopovers at Ongeng’, Kobodo, Mirogi, Ratang’a, Got Kojowi and Aora Chuodho markets. “Many of our secondary schools have no access to water yet it is a project which an MP can accomplish. Let’s reject Owino at the ballot and replace him with me to realise the development we want,” Agwanda said. He pledged to empower youths and women by giving them loans through the Youth Enterprise Development Fund. (Edited by Tabnacha O)