The Kenya Kwanza brigade on Sunday pitched tent in Trans Nzoia County with a pledge to reconstruct the economy. Led by Deputy President William Ruto, the team criticized their competitors in the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Alliance for  being interested only in power sharing. "Our first priority will be to fix the shattered economy unlike our competitors in the Azimio coalition who sit in hotels planning on how to share positions among themselves,’’ Ruto said. He spoke while addressing a rally at Kiminini township. Ruto asked Kenyans to consider bestowing the country’s leadership to the Kenya Kwanza coalition which he said possesses best solutions to the plundered economy. He lauded his bottom-up economic model as the best solution towards uplifting the living standards of the poor. "The trickle-down economic model we are using has not availed much especially for poor folks. The bottom up agenda is the best model to ensure the poor is incorporated in nation building," Ruto said. The DP was accompanied by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula and Speaker of National Assembly Justin Muturi. Other leaders on the campaign trail are  TransNzoia governor Patrick Khaemba, MPs Ferdinand Wanyonyi, Chris Wamalwa, Robert Pokuse, Mwambu Mabonga and Catherine Wambilianga. The DP criticized his competitors in Azimio and termed them selfish as they are holding meetings in hotels to decide the country's political future. "Who gave these people the mandate to sit in hotels to decide who will become the next president of Kenya? These people are only interested in power sharing since they lack transformative agenda for the country." Ruto said his score card as deputy president is visible citing road infrastructure, electricity connectivity and the modernization of rail transport. "My competitor served as the prime minister and should table his track record because mine is visible and Kenyans should be allowed to interrogate who is the best leader to be their president," Ruto said. He used the occasion to drum up support for Wamalwa's  gubernatorial bid in Trans Nzoia. "I'm asking every resident of this county who cares about development to rally behind Chris Wamalwa who is our coalition's candidate for governor,"he said. Wetangula and Musalia urged Kenyans to trust the Kenya Kwanza and support Ruto, its presidential candidate. The ANC leader said that the Kenya Kwanza team has the best economic model that will help bring the country back on its footing. He urged Kenyans to support Ruto whom he described as God fearing, humble and one "who understands the needs on an ordinary Kenyan." "Our team has no room for political conman ship which is being exhibited by our opponents who have no agenda at all for the ailing economy,’’ he said. Earlier on, the team attended a church service at St Peters Clever Catholic church Kiminini, where Ruto donated Sh500,000 towards the purchase of a car for the local parish priest. Presiding over the service, Bishop Maurice Crowley asked politicians to tell the truth and keep the same truth in their actions. Crowley said political leaders should avoid telling lies because it would come to haunt them. "Politicians tell people the truth and keep the truth through actions. Don't tell lies because it would haunt you in future," Crowley warned. He also warned leaders against propelling hatred and divisive politics that would destroy the country. "As leaders you must demonstrate best example of truth and love one another. Put the country's interest ahead of your political ambitions," he said. The man of God challenged politicians to own up on their past mistakes. "Mistakes are made by everybody and there is need to own it as the children of God. We will make God happy when we love one another and do good deeds," he told the leaders. The Kenya Kwanza leaders later attended a county economic forum at Kitale Club.