US soccer men’s and women’s national team players will receive equal pay and prize money, including at World Cups, after they came together to agree on landmark collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with the US Soccer Federation on Wednesday. US Soccer becomes the first federation in the world to equalise Fifa World Cup prize money awarded to both women’s and men’s teams for participation in their respective World Cups. The CBAs, the first of their kind, will run through 2028, covering the next two World Cups and Olympic cycles. They will also keep the players among the highest-paid national team players in the world, US Soccer said. “This is a truly historic moment. These agreements have changed the game forever here in the United States and have the potential to change the game around the world,” said US Soccer President Cindy Parlow Cone. Under the new agreement, the men’s and women’s national teams will have identical performance-based bonuses for all games and competitions. The women’s team, known as the USWNT, will no longer receive guaranteed salaries and have the same pay-to-play payments as their male counterparts, called the USMNT. In another first for US Soccer and the players’ unions, US Soccer will share a portion of its broadcast, partner and sponsorship revenue with a 50-50 split of that share divided equally between USWNT and USMNT. US Soccer said the new revenue-sharing framework will “provide additional encouragement for all parties to work together to grow the game”. The agreements also improve player health and safety, data privacy and the need to balance responsibilities to both club and country, the federation said. “The accomplishments in this CBA are a testament to the incredible efforts of WNT (women’s national team) players on and off the field,” said USWNT player and USWNT’s player association President Becky Sauerbrunn. The agreement came three months after the USWNT and US Soccer agreed to resolve a years-long dispute over equal pay. Read full story It ended a dispute dating back to 2016 when some players filed a federal wage discrimination complaint claiming they were paid less than male players even though they generate more income for the United States Soccer Federation. “The gains we have been able to achieve are both because of the strong foundation laid by the generations of WNT players that came before the current team and through our union’s recent collaboration with our counterparts at the USNSTPA and leadership at US Soccer,” Sauerbrunn added.