Suna East MP Junet Mohammed has challenged Deputy President William Ruto to walk the talk on his Bottom-up Economic model and share part of his wealth with the poor. The secretary-general of the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition Executive Committee asked the DP to begin by dividing his 2,500 acres of land in Taita Taveta to squatters. "If you want to help people, start with that land. There are landless people in this country," Junet said. Ruto has been selling the bottom-up economic model as the cornerstone of his blueprint which targets to financially empower ordinary Kenyans. The DP, who has since adopted 'hustler nation' as his campaign buzz, argues that the trickle-down approach has failed because a few elites have held state resources hostage as the ordinary Kenyan suffer at the bottom. "But even more disturbing, something we have been asking ourselves all through is 'who took us at the bottom?" Junet posed. He spoke at an Azimio campaign forum in Vihiga County on Wednesday. Azimio presidential aspirant Raila Odinga was meeting with various leaders from the county and aspirants at the function. The aspirants are eyeing elective seats on Azimio tickets. Raila has adopted the strategy of deploying hundreds of aspirants to bolster his countrywide campaigns in a strategy to counter Ruto and his entire Kenya Kwanza brigade. Vihiga, a perceived Raila stronghold, has traditionally voted for the ODM leader but the dynamics changed after ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula joined Kenya Kwanza. The entry of the duo into the Ruto-led outfit could tilt the equation in the DP's favour as Wetang'ula and Mudavadi pull all stops to deliver at least 70 per cent of the vote from the region for Ruto. Delivery of the 70 per cent votes is allegedly one of the demands imposed on the two leaders in return for 30 per cent of the government should Ruto win the presidency. On Tuesday, Mudavadi downplayed the buzz generated around the matter and said they will in fact purpose to deliver 90 per cent of Mulembe's votes to Kenya Kwanza. Mudavadi exuded confidence saying the tides in Western Kenya have changed in Kenya Kwanza's favour. "Wetangula and I are here at home... 70 per cent of the Western vote is little, we will bring 90 per cent." Mudavadi has been promised the Prime Cabinet Secretary post in the Kenya Kwanza administration should Ruto win the August 9 election. Ruto said under the coalition's pre-election deal, he will hand the former Vice President the post through an Executive Order. But in a move aimed at retaining the Western Kenya vote, Raila promised to appoint Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya as Finance Minister and return former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende back to the House should he win the polls.