Kenya Kwanza Presidential candidate William Ruto has unveiled regional bigwigs who will lead his campaigns and expanded his team of technocrats to accommodate new partners. The DP named his running mate Rigathi Gachagua and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria as team leader overseeing the Kenya Kwanza's Bottom Up economic model. He brought on board experts seconded from other parties to work under his chief economist David Ndii. The new members include Justus Kariuki Mate (DP), Judy Muhia (The Service Party), Maurice Muthama (Chap Chap) and Tujibebe Wakenya Party's Ruth Muthoni. Kilifi governor Amason Kingi's Pamoja African Alliance party forwarded Edward Mwachinga while Chama Cha Kazi sent Joyce Nyamweya. The team will have 45 days to prepare a raft of proposes to craft the KK manifesto and blue print ahead of the August polls. “The team will prepare a schedule, accelerate and finalise the county economic charters for the remaining devolved units and for the exercise to be concluded in the next 45 days," Ruto said. The team will prepare a framework for the setting up and implementation of Kenya Kwanza 50 billion yearly ‘Hustlers fund'. The team will also provide mechanisms for a government led mobile and digital loan facilities as an alternative source of low interest credit. They will also conceptualise the acceleration of Universal Health Coverage, provide a formula for equitable contributions as a percentage of income and work on an implementation matrix. The team will draft necessary administrative and legislative interventions on farmers support for subsidised farm inputs, including fertilisers and feeds. “They will prepare legislative and administrative interventions to provide for a mechanism for guaranteed minimum returns for our farmers in coffee, tea, sugarcane, maize, coconut, milk (dairy), cotton, wheat, rice, and cashew nuts among others,” Ruto said. The DP on Sunday insisted there will be no zoning in the KK alliance. Ruto said the KK team had agreed on the coordination of all the campaign activities and modalities of how multiple candidates will be engaged in the campaign to avoid unhealthy competition. “As Kenya Kwanza we are a coalition of democrats, the willing and the free. There will be no zoning. All parties will be allowed to field their candidates,” Ruto said. He spoke when he unveiled Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua as his running mate at his official Karen residence. The DP, however, noted that Kenya Kwanza will use opinion polls to build consensus so that unpopular aspirants drop out in favour of strong ones. On regional leaders who will lead his campaigns, Kwale governor Salim Mvurya and Kingi will take charge of the Kenya Kwanza campaigns at the Coast. Former Lamu governor Issa Timamy will work with the two governors to lock Raila Odinga's Azimio from the region. In Ukambani region, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, former Senator Johnson Muthama will now team up to neutralise Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the region. They will be supported by Kitui gubernatorial candidate on UDA ticket Johnathan Mweke, Makueni deputy governor Adelina Mwau and Penina Malonza. In the crucial Mt Kenya East region, National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi, Meru senator Mithika Linturi and county woman representative Beatrice Nkathaa will lead the KK campaigns. Leading the charge in Central Kenya will be a team under governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri) as well as MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Kikuyu's Kimani Ichung’wah. Others are The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri former Kiambu governor William Kabogo of Tujibebe Wakenya party, Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau and Patrick Mariru. In the Rift Valley region the KK campaign activities will be coordinated by Nakuru senator Susan Kihika, former Energy CS Charles Keter and Turkana governor Josphat Nanok. Others will be Samburu governor Moses Lenolkulal, his Narok counterpart Samuel Tunai and MPs Peris Tobiko, who lost in the Kajiado governor's race UDA ticket, Kipchumba Murkomen(Elgeyo Marakwet), Margaret Wanjala and Immaculate Shamala. In Raila's Nyanza turf Migori governor Okoth Obado will take charge alongside MPs Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Vincent Kimosi (West Mugirango), Charles Nyachae and UDA strategist Eliud Owalo. Western region will be led Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Beatrice Adagala (Kakamega Woman Representative), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East). Former CS Ababu Namwamba and Emmanuel Osore will be part of team. Garissa Twonship MP Aden Duale and his Wajir West counterpart Ahmed Kolosh will take control of KK campaigns in the North Eastern while the upper north will be under Rasso Dido Ali and Hassan Tene 