Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has unveiled David Kinaniri Waroe as his running mate in the August election. Speaking in his office on Thursday, Kahiga said Waroe from Mukurwe-ini constituency has 35 years of experience in the public sector. He worked for Afya Sacco where he started as an accountant and rose through the ranks to be financial institution's CEO. By the time he left, the institution's wealth had risen to over Sh16 billion, which is close to three times the Nyeri county budget. The governor said Waroe is a responsible and able person with a wealth of experience in financial management. He is also a businessman with interests in the real estate sector and therefore his input will be greatly needed in the implementation of the Big Four Agenda of affordable housing. "We are optimistic that he will come with the experience in government to help in the realisation of the agenda," he said. Waroe ran for Mukurwe-ini parliamentary seat in 2017 and was in the race for the same seat in the forthcoming election before a deal was struck by the UDA party that he becomes Kahiga's running mate, leaving speaker John Kaguchia to fly the party's ticket in the constituency. The governor said he decided to look for another running mate after falling out with his deputy Caroline Karugu, saying the change will now enable the two work as a team in campaigns and after winning the 2022 elections. Karugu has since been appointed by President Kenyatta as the ambassador for  Denmark. "We have learnt our lessons and while I have admitted a number of times that maybe I rushed in making the previous decision, we have consulted widely," Kahiga said. "I have involved my party. I have done enough research on Waroe and we have engaged for the last two months and I can say with confidence that I am certain that me and him will be a very effective team because I have come to understand him." Kahiga said he has confidence in Waroe and in his ability to work with him and his team. The governor said he spoke with people Waroe worked with who were his seniors and at least three recommended his promotion whenever they were leaving the company. Waroe on his part thanked the governor for picking him and promised to work diligently during the campaigns and after winning the August 9 polls. "I am hopeful that after five years of working together, we will have changed this  county to a better place," he said. Edited by Henry Makori