Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has said she will divulge the next step the country will take in rescuing football once she has consulted President Uhuru Kenyatta. Amina spoke after receiving the proposed document on constitutional amendments from the Football Kenya Federation Caretaker Committee at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Tuesday. The retired Judge Aaron Ringera Committee's mandate came to an end on Tuesday, exactly six months after being constituted by the Sports CS on November 11 last year. Part of its task was to draft an improved FKF constitution to help address the ills bedeviling Kenyan football. “Today's report has validated all the work we started doing in November,” Amina said. “I shall definitely not discuss any engagements we've had with Fifa because doing that would be in bad faith,” Amina said. “We want to see how Fifa will address the issues raised in the report. As a government, we know they will act on the embezzlement of their funds. “I know if it had been your wish, Harambee Starlets would have honoured their Africa Women's Cup of Nations qualifiers but that didn't happen. I can assure you if we implement what has been proposed in the document, we won't witness such cases in the future,” Amina said. Retired judge Ringera said they ensured the involvement of all stakeholders. “It's a draft that has taken the views of all stakeholders and the general public. We believe we have a draft that will be a good bedrock for football administration in the country," Ringera said. The Caretaker Committee invited stakeholders including clubs participating in the five top tier leagues, referee’s association, players' association, county associations, members of FKF and the general public to submit their input on the draft constitution through physical meetings across the country. The committee proposed a raft of recommendations for consideration and adoption in the report. Among the changes will be the amendment of the FKF Constitution to comply with the Constitution of Kenya and the Sports Act. “The committee has developed a Draft Constitution annexed to this report which we want to be shared with Fifa and subject to its concurrence, be subjected to a validation process by members of FKF and adopted by the General Assembly as the amended Constitution of FKF. The committee said the new document would ensure elections of the FKF officials are conducted in compliance with the Constitution of Kenya, the Sports Act and the new FKF Constitution. It also proposed that the leagues be handed over to a Limited Company for efficient and effective running. In an effort to address rampant graft witnessed in the past, the committee proposed the adoption of a more transparent and accountable governance system that involves the disclosure of information. “If passed, FKF will be required to reveal its sources of funding (Fifa, donors, Government, etc) to members and that these funds must be utilized in nurturing talent and developing sports and infrastructure.” The Committee further drew attention to the pathetic state of local stadia and asked the government to ensure all sports facilities meet international standards as stipulated by Caf and Fifa. They also recommended that appointments of coaches, technical persons and match officials be on clear contract terms. 