I’ve never met you, but I know this about you: it is time for your next level. Why I’m I sure? You have been in your current station long enough, work that used to be fulfilling and satisfying is now unfulfilling (you would rather watch paint dry), and every fiber of your being longs for the next level. Yes, it’s time to go higher. So, what does it take to pull this off? Here are four principles to help you. Next-Level Vision: One reason you feel uncomfortable at your current level is the relentless call of the next, and it is happening in pictures. Now, you see yourself doing something better, exciting and new in the future. Often, you get images of the future that looks nothing like your present. I call this experience: next-level vision. It is a vital force for your ascent. What do you do with this vision? Embrace it. Let the vision speak to you; let it show you the way up. Open up and respond to the call to go higher. Next-Level Thinking: When you embrace the vision of your future something begins to change in your mind. You start thinking differently. Please understand that your current thinking will not get you to the next level. Like the book title by the leadership guru, Marshall Goldsmith, reads, "What got you here won’t get you there.” You must start to connect to higher thoughts; it’s time to engage more powerful thought processes for the next level. Next-Level People: Your belief in your bright future would cause a change in your thinking that would usher you into the next phase. Here, as you grow new thought patterns, you would gravitate toward the kind of people who fit in your future. People who do not enable the future would be unattractive to you. You would want to spend time with next-level people. This crowd is where you want to be, and associating with them pulls you up to the next level. Next-Level Environment: Next-level vision, thinking, and people would ignite the desire to move (or find) the next-level environment. It is a place that powers your future and enables your dreams. It is an environment that energizes you to keep moving forward. Often, the next-level environment requires that you leave where you are; in that case, move (or make plans to). Your future depends on it. If your current environment is not propelling you to the next level, you're misplaced. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com