ANC secretary general Simon Mwangi has been summoned to appear before the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal on Monday for failing to honour an order that nullified the nomination of an MP nominee. The order was in relation to the nomination of MP contestant for Ikolomani Constituency. In a ruling delivered on May 4, the PPDT ruled that Simon Mwangi being the secretary general of ANC party was in contempt of the judgement and orders of the Tribunal made on April 28. "A notice to show cause to issue against Mwangi to appear before the PPDT Kakamega bench sitting at Milimani Law court on May 9, 2022", the Tribunal ruled. On April 26, 2022, David Kubasu, an MP aspirant for Ikolomani, filed the complaint against ANC National Election Board for awarding his fellow contestant Ramadhan Butichi the nomination certificate. The Tribunal in its decision on April 28, nullified the nomination certificate issued to Butichi. "A declaration is hereby issued that the decision of Amani National Congress Party to issue nomination certificate for Ikolomani to Butichi is illegal and therefore null and void," the Tribunal ruled. It directed the party to issue the nomination certificate to Kubasu. However, ANC sought for stay of execution of the orders but the Tribunal dismissed the notice of motion on April 30. Kubasu further filed an application seeking for the SG to be cited for contempt and be summoned to the Tribunal to show cause why he should not be committed to civil jail for a term of six months for disobeying the orders. He also sought orders to have the IEBC directed to gazette him as ANC nominee and candidate for the position of MP in Ikolomani constituency. Kubasu had argued that the Tribunal had ordered that ANC party and its national election board be restrained from forwarding the name of Butichi as its nominee for the subject position. He said Mwangi as the party SG, in defiance of the orders of the Tribunal, forwarded the name of Butichi as the party's nominee. "The contemnor has brought disrepute to the dignity of the Tribunal and this is a recipe to anarchy," he said. Kubasu argued that the Tribunal gave its orders in good time for the respondents through Mwangi to comply within the election timelines. Mwangi, however, stated that the application by Kubasu was fatally defective as he never adduced evidence of the breached order. He added that Kubasu's application was based on conjecture as no evidence of the alleged submission of Butichi's name to the IEBC had been provided. "As such, the application has not satisfied the threshold of the grant the orders sought in contempt of court," Mwangi argued.