Vihiga county will double funds in the governor’s scholarship kitty from Sh20 million to Sh47 million, county boss Wilber Ottichilo has said. "In the next budget making process, we shall allocate more funds to the scholarship programme to enable more needy students benefit," Ottichillo said. The programme that was launched in 2019 by Ottichilo has been supporting at least 100 learners. Ottichilo,  while flagging off the fourth cohort under the programme at the county headquarters on Thursday, said there are more needy cases that need attention. “Yes we can’t manage all people, but we need to increase this allocation to serve at least 10 more pupils per ward to raise the total number to 250,” Ottichilo said. “Right now we had 700 applicants and our budget is for 100 learners that is why we want to increase funding." Ottichilo said his government is committed to investing in education saying that the county is constrained by land, the only viable resource remaining is education. He said its time for residents to invest in the education of their children to improve their livelihoods. Chief Officer for Education Pamela Mahila said the department did a thorough vetting exercise for all the applicants. "The vetting and awarding of the scholarship was done above board and we ensured only deserving learners were selected," Mahila said. Ian Lusiji, a beneficiary to the programme could not hide his excitement after being enrolled in the programme. Lusiji, a former pupil at Mago Primary School scored 408 marks has been selected to join Maseno School. "I lost my father in 2017 and the future seemed dark, when my father's family rejected me,  so I had to live with my maternal grandmother," he said. "I thank the governor for coming up with this great initiative to help us who would have otherwise never proceeded with our education." Yvonne Butiko, another beneficiary from Emuhaya subcounty was also full of gratitude. The St Cecilia Nangina Girls High School bound Yvonne promised to work hard and become a lawyer to help the vulnerable in the society. Also present at the event were county secretary Ezekiel Ayiego, chief of staff James Otari. MCAs Violet Bagada (chaire ducation committee), Gladys Analo(Busali), Calistus Ayodi (Muhudu), Collins Ayugu (Banja), Chief Officer Pamela Mahila(Education) and Abisai Amatalo (TVET). (Edited by Tabnacha O)