A team of detectives from the Homicide Unit at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations took over the probe into the death of Nominated MP David Sankok’s son by revising the scene where the body was found in Narok County. The team reconstructed the scene to enable them "answer many unanswered questions", get the trajectory of the killer bullet and collect more evidence. They said the revisit of the scene on Thursday, which is now almost the fourth at the scene, was part of the evidence collection. This comes ahead of a planned second autopsy on the body of Memusi Sankok, 15, who is said to have shot himself dead at his father’s house on May 2. The autopsy will be redone on May 13 and is considered as part of evidence collecting which was prompted by the fact that the initial exercise was conducted by a Ministry of Health official without the participation of some forensic experts and that it did not provide the necessary answers. Chief Government pathologist Johansen Oduor will lead the exercise in Nakuru where the body was moved to. The earlier post-mortem indicated that Memusi’s death was caused by a bullet through his chin and exited at the top of his head. The planned forensic investigations will involve examining the wound, the direction the bullet took and even the projectile that may involve the use of an X-ray. Officials said another analysis will be that of gunshot residue to check if there is debris on the deceased’s palm if indeed he is the one who fired the bullet. When a firearm is shot, the debris comes out from the ejector that remains on the hand or clothes of the one holding the weapon. GSR can also determine the muzzle-to- target-distance. “Was the weapon on the chin when it discharged or far away. That is part of the forensic analysis that is ongoing,” said Narok head of DCI Mwenda Ethaiba. Two firearms recovered from the house, a pistol and a shotgun, had been surrendered for ballistic analysis. The boy is said to have used the shotgun to kill himself. The ballistic analysis seeks to establish if the firearm in question was the one used in the shooting and if indeed the recovered bullet head if any, was fired from the weapon. The team is investigating how the boy managed to use the shotgun following an altercation with the father after he allegedly refused to go back to school. The MP told detectives that after the argument, he left the house for the hotel and while there, his son accessed the safe, took the firearm and shot himself. Upon completion of the investigations, detectives are expected to forward the file to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution. The DCI may recommend the file to be closed, that a person be charged with the killing, or that the father be charged with negligence in handling the firearms, which he was legally in possession of.