The Archbishop of Nyeri Archdiocese Anthony Muheria has opened up on the incident where a man, overwhelmed with emotion, interrupted the State Funeral Service of the late former President Mwai Kibaki when he was presiding the mass at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. Muheria won the hearts of Kenyans after he calmly handled the situation without much drama, a move he describes as instinctive and a process of grace. Muheria told the Star on Wednesday that he was moved when he saw “this young man who was deranged, disturbed and overwhelmed” and decided to embrace him for comfort. “I was natural in my reaction. I would say there was a process of thinking. To be honest I would be lying to say I knew what was through my mind because it doesn’t give you time to think. It is instinctive, it is what you assess and what comes to you naturally,” Muheria said. “I saw this young man who is deranged, worried and seems unsettled and has a desire. I wouldn’t say there was a process of thinking. I would say it was a process of grace.” The man, Allan Makana, who had claimed to be Kibaki’s grandson slightly disrupted the mass when he walked to the pulpit. He was heard asking Muheria to give him two minutes to address the funeral service. Security officers followed him in tow, ready to arrest him. But Muheria would embrace him with a hug. He took a minute in consoling him. Moments later, officers picked up Makana. Archbishop Muheria then instructed the officers to treat Makana well with kindness because he is a Kenyan son overwhelmed by the loss of the retired president. Muheria told the Star that when he saw the man, he felt a compelling sense of mercy towards him and saw it as a duty to be kind to him. He said the country needed leaders who would exercise mercy and grace as they serve. “I think people have to believe in the process of grace, that God gives you in a moment. A grace of what to do and the right thing to do. I thank God that was the grace I got at the moment and I can’t try to own and say that oh I read...there is really very little logic when it comes to it.” He said he was glad that the gesture has been recognized in the country and hopes that it is replicated in such moments.