Two men and a woman were found dead while holding each other in a lodging in Nairobi’s Pipeline area in a bizarre incident. The trio, whose lips were intercrossed, held each other, witnesses and police said. But one of the men was bleeding from the mouth and nose when the bodies were discovered Monday afternoon. Police termed the incident a puzzle but added they are investigating the deaths to establish what happened at the lodging. The detectives handling the incident said they suspect a cult to be the motive behind it. There was, however, no sign of break-in or struggle in the room, which made police conclude for now it might be suicide. The victims were identified as Philip Murefu Simiyu aged 63 and Boniface Muchiri Waruiru aged 28 while the woman is yet to be identified. The proprietor of Chairman Lounge Guest House said the three checked in on Monday at about midnight. When they booked the room, the management thought they wanted to enjoy themselves. But they failed to check out of the room on Monday afternoon as anticipated. An attendant who went to check on them said there was no response from therein forcing her to call the management and police who broke in through the window to access the room at about 2 pm Monday. It was then they discovered the bodies. The motive of the incident is yet to be established even as the bodies were moved to the mortuary where an autopsy will be conducted. Detectives from homicide said they were tracing the families of the deceased to understand what could have happened. “The postmortem will tell us if they took poison or what happened in the room. For now, we do not know what could have led to the deaths,” said the head of Nairobi DCI Paul Wachira. He added this will also help them identify the woman. Meanwhile, police are investigating an incident in which a 70-year-old man was found dead after an apparent suicide in Sultan Hamud area, Makueni County. The body of Michael Mailu was found dangling from a tree outside his house and police say they don’t know if he died by suicide or was killed. The body was moved to the mortuary. Cases of suicide have been on the rise in the recent past. A case is reported daily.