Saku MP Dido Ali Raso has urged students to work hard and remain disciplined to excel in exams. Raso said this would reciprocate various assistance initiatives provided by the government. He urged the students not to let their circumstances dictate their future, urging them to focus and recognise their time as students to create a better life in future. “Remain focused on your dreams and goals. Pursue them with diligence and passion,” he said. Raso spoke at Gadamoji Secondary School during the school's thanksgiving ceremony. He said the teaching profession is known to be the producer of human capital for future leaders thus teachers should be appreciated. “To achieve human capital values, we believe that leadership starts from school,” Raso said. He called on parents to put more effort into paying school fees on time to keep learners in school. He urged them to work closely with their children's learning institutions to enhance a good relationship between them and teachers. The lawmaker urged his fellow leaders to desist from divisive politics that could stir up violence. He called for peaceful coexistence among residents. While supporting the ongoing operation aimed at bringing peace to the county, he warned security agencies against ethnic profiling. This, he said, would undermine their efforts in peacebuilding and called on residents to cooperate with them. Gadamoji School principal Boru Guyo attributed their success to good collaboration with teachers, parents and students, promising to put more effort into reaching a higher mean score. Yunis Joe, a Form 4 student at Gadamoji, appreciated the MP's support in paying her school fees. She promised to work hard to ensure she didn't disappoint him. More than 10 students in the school had their fees paid. The school also celebrated its stellar performance as three students managed to join university, while others will join colleges. The school had a mean score of 5.19 compared to 3.9 last year.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris