Former Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi has condemned some Ukambani leaders opposed to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s political stand. He said Kalonzo is a seasoned politician who is not only respected in the country but internationally, owing to his contribution as a mediator and peace ambassador. The former MP who was recently unveiled by Machakos governor aspirant Wavinya Ndeti as her running mate addressed the press in Machakos town on Monday. Ndeti is contesting for the seat on a Wiper ticket for the third time after she rallied against the incumbent Alfred Mutua in 2013 and 2017 respectively, but lost. Mwangangi said the former vice president should be respected by all, especially leaders from Ukambani, who throw barbs at him over his apparent political stand. “We have witnessed some leaders from this region criticise Kalonzo. The leaders include governors serving their final terms, alongside others who have been rejected by the electorate and have decided they aren’t defending their seats,” he said. The former legislator said some of those leaders who are hulling political barbs at Kalonzo are seeking jobs in the next national government and have got no interests of the Kamba community at heart. “Others are looking for tenders in national government while some are looking for money to politically divide the Kamba community. “I’m asking the Ukambani residents, let’s not be divided by people who we know have no good intentions. We want respect and unity in Ukambani especially Makueni, Machakos and Kitui counties,” he said. Mwangangi said their respect as a community will depend on how they will vote on August 9. He said residents should cast their votes in one basket as a community. “We don’t want our leader Kalonzo to be asked where he is. We went to Wiper Command Centre in Nairobi and unveiled the deputy presidential candidate. That’s the position for now. If there are other things, we don’t want to engage in them,” Mwangangi said. He said some of the leaders are running away from their counties due to graft. “They shouldn’t use devolved resources to divide the community. We will remain united as ever. Let’s not misuse our people more so to cause chaos through incitement and deceit. We should ensure peace, don’t pay youths to disrupt peace,” the leader said. The former MP said Kenya has been a united and peaceful state and should remain so. “Kenya will remain after elections. I urge leaders to preach peace and unity during the electioneering period,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)