Battle lines have been drawn between top Garissa governor aspirants over who should spearhead the Azimio La Umoja campaigns. The Azimio campaign team has listed both incumbent Ali Korane (Jubilee) and former governor Nathif Jama (ODM) to spearhead the party’s campaigns. However, deep supremacy battles emerged during a recent visit by Azimio flagbearer Raila Odinga’s running mate Martha Karua. Korane and Jama clashed on who will mobilise voters for the top seat in the county. Although Karua steered clear of local politics, the profound tension was evident in the event as each of the key figures were welcomed. The event that was organised by Maendeleo ya Wanawake to celebrate the movement’s 70th anniversary was turned into a political rally,with each leader trooping in with his supporters. Korane accused the outfits of meddling in Garissa politics, alleging that the presence of his rival Jama at the function bred confusion. The governor said he had forgiven ODM for denying him the ticket and giving it to his arch-rival. He said their "forces" (he did not name who) were hell bent on ensuring he was denied the ODM ticket. Korane however said he will now be the front runner for Raila’s campaigns. Both Korane and Jama have promised massive voter mobilisation for the Azimio la Umoja flagbearer, Raila, each boasting of numbers in the county. Jama said he is the lead person for the Azimio campaigns and Raila is expected to launch the coalition’s office in the coming weeks. “We have mobilised our supporters for Azimio. Some people should not boast of numbers while we know their star fell a long time ago,” he said. Dekow Mohamed Barow (UDA), a new entrant into the county politics, has also been making inroads to villages in a bid to popularise his bid. He has however been disparaging Korane’s administration despite being a close relative. As campaigns draw closer, the three aspirants who have all chosen their deputies from from the Samawadhal community of Ijara subcounty, have been meeting different groups in a bid to win their support. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)