With less than three months to the August 9 general election, women living with disability who have tried their hands at the ballot are still yearning for leadership space. While women have always been discriminated in leadership, those with disability have been facing more hurdles especially in seeking elective posts. “When it comes to women in politics, the terrain is rough. But it gets rougher when you are a woman politician with disability, after vying twice I have realised when people have a chance to do away with you they can be cold and fast,” Delfina Gaiteng’a Mutuaruchiu, 52, said. Mutuaruchiu, a dental surgeon with a degree from Australia Sydney University was vying for the Meru Woman Representative and dropped off in the UDA  primaries which were won by Karambu Kailemia. “Ahead of primaries the trail was tougher because of my condition, my last born son who is eight has been suffering from cerebral palsy and his condition got worse as campaign progressed, so I was comfortable with consensus which handed my sister the ticket,” she said. Not new to politics, the dentists said in 2017 she had unsuccessfully vied as Municipality ward MCA, adding that politics is not for faint hearted especially for women politicians having disability. Mutuaruchiu suffered a dislocated hip as a child which was made worse during fracas in the 2007 post-election violence which has affected her movement greatly. “There are things in politics which look normal especially in a rally and voters may not understand, like I can never climb on a vehicle rooftop to address a rally and where podiums luck rumps I’ll never make it,” she said. She said because of her conditions, she could easily be left out in protocol in rallies as she can be edged out in sitting on the podium. “First women in Kenya have not been accepted as leaders, there are people who want to ask you who is your husband as if you need to belong to a man equally since politics is done in odd hours with long terrain which causes discomfort to us,” she said. Her sentiments were shared by nominated MP Dennitah Ghati who is representing PwDs in Parliament and is ODM candidate for Migori Woman Representative seat in the coming polls. “In a place where a normal person can walk or take a motorbike, people with disability must use a taxi which is expensive. Equally a normal five step stair case to a podium can be a marathon to someone on wheelchair,” Ghati said. Ghati was first elected as Migori Woman Representative in 2013 polls, a fatal road accident at Ntulele in Narok county on March 2014 as she was rushing for Parliament opening confined her into a wheelchair. She sits at the ODM national governing council to represent minority groups and is the chair of Commonwealth Parliamentarians with Disability which is a global body. “I am a woman with disability and I take great pride in that, others in political arena should bank more on agenda because I always tell voters that I may be in a wheelchair but my brains and leadership qualities passes that, that way I have been able to win in primaries and remain strong in the campaign trail,” she said. Verah Robi, an activist with Women Challenged to Challenge an organisation which has been trying to empower women with disability through the just concluded primaries said political parties and elections stakeholders need to do a lot. Robi said they have worked with 735 women with disability in 20 counties in several level of political process and they had a target of having at least 20 candidates picked for the ballot. “We fell short as we only have two candidates ahead of polls, most fell through the nomination process as party candidate and we hope they will be nominated in both county and national assemblies, part from other positions,” Robi said. Jacky Bartenge an activist with Women Challenged to Challenge said during the awareness they were key in translating most rules and policies for aspirants in braille for the blind and have sign language interpreters for the deaf in rallies. “We first need to ensure the election process, from campaign trails, nomination process and policy formulation and party structure is disability friendly. We are happy that in major rallies parties have been hiring sign language interpreters,” she said. The two challenged political parties to leave and ensure slots for party positions from grass root to national level are filled with those with disability as only women and youths positions are considered. 