A family in Nyamira is seeking justice after their son, a Form 3 student at Nyakemincha Mixed Secondary, died in mysterious circumstances. He apparently had been ailing since early in the week and was treated by a school nurse, the family said. They were they only informed of of his illness after his death. The body of Daniel Obino, 16, was discovered at a spring near the school by fellow students on Sunday evening. The boy's parents said they suspect there is more than meets the eye in their son’s sudden death. Obino's parents spoke to journalists on Thursday at their Bigege home in Kiang’ida, Nyamira. They said they are questioning why the school failed to notify them when the boy fell ill, until he died. His father, Vincent Nyaboga, said there are glaring gaps in the information the school was providing regarding his son’s death. He said a teacher at the boarding school intimated his child fell sick early in the week and had been under medication from a school nurse before he died. "These are the grey areas we have asked security agencies to look into before we begin burial preparations,” Nyaboga said He said failure to get early information denied them a chance to save a life. The father described his son as a hard working boy who loved books and always read when he was home during recess. “He was often into his books and if not studying he was in pathfinder classes at church. I have never seen him misbehaving to occasion warranting  corporal punishment leading to his demise. "As a family we ask the police to ensure we get justice the soonest possible,” Nyaboga said. Obino’s mother, Callen Nyaboke, was devastated when journalists visited their  home. She only asked security agencies to leave no stone unturned as they investigate. Francis Ngari, an uncle of the boy, said they received reports of the student’s death with surprise. He said they asked school authorities to explain how an ailing student could leave the school compound unnoticed only to collapse and die alone at a spring. He said possible security lapses in the school must form part of the ongoing probe into the incident. "The school should give us a report that is truthful so that we can know who killed our child, and if it was a teacher, then action be taken," Ngari said. He asked Interior CS Fred to deploy detectives to undertake a probe that can unravel the mystery. A detective in Nyamira police station and who is part of the investigating team said the boy may have died of cardiac arrest. "An early report available shows he had died of cardiac arrest but we are still on it and will give any further information as the investigations may unfold," he told journalists in confidence as he was not authorised to speak to the media. (Edited by v. Graham)