In a world in which grand theft auto is a norm and not an exception, car tracking systems have been a godsend. Thank the Lord for digital technologies that ensure the safety of your car as well as yours. However, it is important to apply due diligence before settling on any one car tracking system for your vehicle. Some of the companies that offer these services may just be sheep in wolves' clothing, who help perpetrate car theft and hijacking rather than help fight this crime. Before signing on the dotted line with any company, you need to understand what their tracking software offers against grand theft auto. Whereas GPS-tracking systems and Google location services are the bane of many systems, they may not be as effective when it comes to recovery of a stolen vehicle. This is because the perpetrators would simply have to park the car in an area with poor internet coverage, which would complicate the recovery process. In a situation where time is of the essence, such as a kidnapping, the longer it takes to locate the vehicle, the riskier the life of the victim. The problem is many tracking companies will not inform you of the limitations of whatever tracking system you choose. Furthermore, there is a tendency to confuse vehicle fleet management and car tracking systems. The former technology allows you to track the movement of your car, including the stops made and speed. However, it may not be able to help you out in the event your car goes missing or is stolen. Additionally, you need a real-time tracking system that will provide a minute-by-minute location of your vehicle. Some car owners opt for a passive tracking system that does not have a real-time feature but only collects data that can be retrieved only when the car has been found. Passive tracking systems may seem affordable but will instead rack up more expenses for you in case your car is missing. It may not be of much help to you in emergency situations. It also helps to do a thorough background research on the reputation of the tracking system company you are doing business with. Some of these service providers are just a veil to hide their clandestine activities, such as grand theft auto. They work in cahoots with carjackers and kidnappers, who then track your vehicle, steal it from you and then effortlessly dismantle the software system so it cannot be relocated. You can ask around from your friends and relatives who have used car tracking systems on the best company to deal with. In as much as website reviews may also provide a hint on the credibility of the service provider, some of the comments therein may be sponsored by the company to paint a positive image of itself.