ODM leader and Azimio la Umoja presidential flagbearer Raila Odinga has pledged drastic reforms in his first 100 days in office should he form the government. The former Prime Minister said he will deal firm with the high cost of living that has sparked protests against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. Raila, promising to deliver Kenyans to his proverbial ‘Canaan’, exuded  confidence he would floor Deputy President William Ruto in the August 9 vote to enable him to deliver the promise. “We will defeat these people (Kenya Kwanza). Once we assume power, we will deal with corruption. A lot will change in the first 100 days of Baba’s government,” the ODM leader said. While addressing a rally in Laikipia on Monday, Raila also promised to reduce prices of basic commodities as well as fuel should he assume the presidency. “Our people are tired. Kenyans are burdened with high prices of basic commodities. Fuel prices are high so is maize flour. We will change all that,” he said. He was accompanied by several leaders among them area governor Ndiritu Muriithi, Senator aspirant Maina Njenga, and former National Assembly speaker Francis ole Kaparo among other dignitaries. “We are going to stage an economic revolution led by the youth. I want partners and not followers,” the former Prime Minister told his supporters. He assured Kenyans the Azimio team “will come up with a manifesto that will deliver the Kenyan dream as stated in the national anthem.” Raila read out the stanzas, reiterating that his team would help Kenyans attain the dream of “raha tupate na ustawi” loosely translated to - attain joy because the country has plenty. “Kenyans are always sad because of the problems we face. We will work to ensure plenty is found within our borders. I will take you to Canaan, which is the world of plenty,” Raila said. The concern about the high cost of living has elicited a heated political discourse as the country hurtles towards the next general election. On Sunday, President Kenyatta and DP Ruto were embroiled in a public spat on who should take the blame for the not so rosy turn of events. The President took a scathing swipe at Ruto accusing him of abandoning the Jubilee ship in preference for his campaigns for the presidency. “Where are you? Instead of helping me to solve the problem, you are in the market saying ask that person [Uhuru]. Then you should have resigned and allowed me to pick someone who can help me,” the President said. Ruto, in his response, accused the President of sidelining him in the running of government. He said the Jubilee government agenda was shelved after the handshake with Raila. “Sorry my boss, I feel your pain. Those to whom you assigned my responsibilities and ‘Project’ Mzee [Raila] have let you down miserably,” the DP tweeted. Raila, without delving into the exchanges, said he has a solution to the problems bedevilling Kenyans. “We have unveiled plans for economic liberation in the war against ignorance, poverty, and disease. It is regrettable these challenges are still with us. So we must change tact,” he said. The ODM leader exuded confidence he’d bag a sizeable vote in the Mt Kenya region asking residents to “reject wheelbarrow” – which is in reference to Ruto’s UDA whose symbol is the wheelbarrow. Raila restated his plan for seven-year repayment relief for government loans as a way to help Kenyan entrepreneurs fight poverty. He further pledged an industry for every county under the ‘one county, one product’ mantra and an increment of devolution cash to 35 per cent of revenue. “We will see drastic changes in terms of development. Rural access roads will be expanded. We will work on water for every home and build dams to harvest rainwater,” the ODM leader said. He added that his administration would support pastoralists, provide farmers with subsidised fertiliser, and provide a Sh6,000 stipend for vulnerable families.