I do not have irreducible minimum demands in Kenya Kwanza, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said. Mudavadi said he is not targeting a particular position in government if Deputy President William Ruto wins the election. “What is the purpose of hanging around a position and not winning the election? Let us not be overexcited that you are running and your target is one position or the other,” he said. Mudavadi who spoke at his office on Wednesday said he is keen on delivering votes to Kenya Kwanza and not the positions he will get. “My irreducible minimum is to work for the people of Kenya; not personal issues. “I have said it before; our number one agenda is the economy, number two the economy and number three the economy. We must focus on improving the lives of Kenyans,” he said. However, supporters of Mudavadi have been pushing for Ruto to pick him as a running mate in the August election. Reports have however indicated that it is highly likely that Ruto will not name Mudavadi as his running mate and instead pick someone from vote-rich Mt Kenya region. The Deputy President has been banking on the vote-rich region in his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has publicly declared support for ODM leader Raila Odinga. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki, MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) have been mentioned as possible running mates. However, a recent poll by Radio Africa Group showed Mudavadi is the most preferred running mate for Ruto in the August polls. The poll revealed that the former vice president is the most preferred by 24.2 per cent of the respondents. Mudavadi was closely followed by Gachagua at 20.2 per cent, while Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro closed the top three with 11.3 per cent. The IEBC set May 16 as the date by which political parties and independent candidates must present the names of president and deputy president candidates. The same date also applies to candidates for the governor seat and their deputies. Reports have indicated that Kenya Kwanza’s pre-election deal says Ruto’s UDA will produce the presidential candidate while ANC will nominate the candidate to be appointed as prime Cabinet secretary. The position of the prime Cabinet minister, which is believed to be earmarked for Mudavadi, will be created within 14 days if the alliance wins. ANC and Ford-Kenya are to get 30 per cent of government. This includes Cabinet positions, principal secretaries, high commissioners and other state jobs. Mudavadi said his party gave him the go ahead to enter into coalitions with like-minded parties ahead of the election. “When ANC passed its resolution on January 23 at its NDC, members gave me a mandate to enter into coalition and make decisions on behalf of the party. I have not acted outside that mandate,” he said. Mudavadi said together with his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula, they will deliver western region to Kenya Kwanza. “Raila garnered votes in western in past elections because we campaigned for him; supported him and ceded ground for his candidature. He did not parachute and picked it up,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)