The university placement agency has decried low universities and college placement uptake by eligible candidates from Northeastern. KUCCPS chief executive officer Mercy Wahome said most students have low access to the information on placement or lack internet services in their localities, making it hard for them to apply. Wahome spoke during her tour of the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service at the Garissa Huduma centre on Saturday. “We have seen low numbers of applications from the Northeastern region. Once students leave school and they are back to their rural areas, some are not able to get the information in time and thus miss the opportunities,” Wahome said. The official announced a KUCCPS partnership with Huduma centres across the country, to offer placement services. She said they will work with county commissioners and local administrators to ensure they reach every student who needs to further their studies. Devolving the services to Huduma centres means that students will no longer be required to travel to Nairobi for enquiries, easing the process. “We have also engaged with the Huduma cyber to offer internet services for those who want to make the applications online,” Wahome said. KUCCPS has also partnered with the ICT authority to provide free internet services in Huduma centres, to allow students to make their applications by June 2. Wahome said students who sat for their KCSE in 2021 will be placed in 70 universities both private and public. Also, 190 tertiary institutions including the Kenya Wildlife College, Marine Academy in Mombasa, Kenya Institute of Mass Communication and Kenya Railways. All the 144,466 students who got C+ and above qualify to apply for degree courses, while those with C and below will be placed in tertiary institutions. The CEO said ministries, which have training institutions, should avail their courses to them for easy access. She further encouraged those who scored lower grades to come out and apply for courses, which are readily available for them. Wahome said the government has opportunities for everyone and grades don't define people. “Even that student with an E, we have courses for them at artisan level. D- students can start at artisan II and D, D+ can start at certificate level. “There are no failures in Kenya but people with different capacities and gifts. Those are the ones that we want to tap and ensure that everyone gets a place in the society,” she said. Azimio running mate Martha Karua said she will consult ODM leader Raila Odinga on how best to lower entry grades for candidates from marginalised regions intending to join Teacher Training Colleges. She spoke on Wednesday while addressing the Maendeleo ya Wanawake congregation in Garissa. “I can’t promise you but I will work with my leader Raila so that once he gets into power, he considers reducing the entry grades for children in the region,” Karua said. Kenyans who sat for their KCSE between 2000 and 2021 also have an opportunity to apply for admission into tertiary institutions through the placement service. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)