Non-locals have thrown their weight behind Tana River Woman Representative Rehema Hassan, who is eyeing the Bura MP seat. Hassan, who will be contesting on a UDA ticket, got the endorsement during a meeting held at a Madogo hotel on Thursday. Bura ward, mostly inhabited by farmers at the irrigation scheme, and Madogo ward have a good number of non-locals who have always been used as swing voters. Last December, Hassan became the first woman to be endorsed by her Wailwana community. Other communities are the Orma and the Wardhei. Bura MP Ali Wario who hails from the Orma community is vying for governor. During the endorsement, residents said they will mobilise the community to vote for Hassan, describing her as a leader who has been tried and tested. Maina Ngozi, patron of the non-local communities, said they decided to support the outgoing woman representative because of what she had done during her tenure. “As non-locals, we don’t vote along tribal or party lines. Ours is purely on where we feel our interests will be well catered for. "In this case, after carefully analysing the aspirants, we have a strong feeling that Hassan is the right candidate for us,” Ngozi said. Kitheka Mwendwa, chairman of the Kamba community, said women across the country had proved that given a chance to lead they never disappoint. He said the electorate should rise above party and clan lines and support Hassan's candidature. “Yes, we support different presidential candidates. However, my humble appeal is that when it comes to this lady, let us all vote for her because going by her track record she will not disappoint. If anything, with a bigger kitty, she can only do more," Mwendwa said. Hassan thanked the community for expressing confidence in her. She said she will do her best to unite the communities as well as develop all corners of the constituency. “If I managed to do quite a lot with the meagre allocation that we have as woman reps, you can imagine what I will be able to achieve with the resources at the constituency level,” the aspirant said. The legislator said politicians in Tana River should carry out peaceful campaigns and avoid issuing statements that might trigger clan animosity. She said the county has a history of clan clashes during election period and to stop this from recurring, all politicians must take the lead role and preach peace as they campaign. Hassan said lives have been lost and hundreds displaced in past elections. Wailwana community king Ramadhan Divayu said the electorate should support the aspirant. He said her good development track record gives her a head start against her competitors. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)