Eight out of every 10 police stations are at risk of being grabbed as they do not have any ownership documents, Ipoa has said. Independent Police Oversight Authority said out of 81 police stations it inspected between November and April this year, a paltry 11 per cent had the documents that conferred ownership on the lands on which they stood. Of the nine stations with the title deeds, it said only five had the crucial documents in their possession, in a report released this month. “Out of the 81 police premises that were inspected, only 9 (11%) had title deeds with only 5 out of the 9 having the title deed records with them," the report reads. "Only 4 police premises knew the time of issue of the title and the custody of the title varied from churches, to Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Lands, donation by community and NGAOs, among others." It said 57 of the inspected police premises had land for future expansion, but that 49 of them did not have the title deeds putting their future development ambitions in jeopardy. Further, the report also showed a sad state of infrastructure in the stations as only 31 of the 81 inspected stations had improvements on them to accommodate suspects and police officers. The improvements in the 31 facilities included renovation of cells and office blocks, painting works, building of toilets within the cells, construction of officers’ toilets, construction of fences and building of new modern office blocks, the report said. Only 9 of the 31 improved facilities were made accessible to persons living with disabilities, while 11 were inaccessible by PWD’s. The criteria were not applicable in 11 (35.5 per cent) facilities since improvements included construction of fences, cells, toilets and also office blocks whose constructions were ongoing and yet to be completed for use. The report further said that "of the 81 inspected facilities, 23 (28.4 per cent) facilities had customer care offices and 47 (58.02 per cent) facilities lacked customer care offices." “Of the 23 facilities that had customer care desks, the state of customer care offices was as follows; 7 (30.43 per cent) were in good state, 8 (34.78 per cent) were in fair state [and] 5 (21.74 per cent) were in deplorable state...” Further, only 59 of the inspected facilities had armouries, while 21 lacked, bringing to question how arms are being handled in the police stations in the country. “Of the 81 facilities inspected, armouries were available in 59 (72.84 per cent) facilities, 21 (25.93 per cent) lacked armouries while 1 (1.23 percent) facility had not been constructed as at the time of inspection,” the report said. In in those stations that had armouries, only 22 were declared as in good state. To address the infrastructural deficits, the authority recommends that Parliament should enact a CDF-style model for improving the police station buildings.  (edited by Amol Awuor)