Orange Democratic Movement’s board of trustee member Fred Gumo has turned the heat on Deputy President William Ruto for his continued attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking during a meeting convened by members of the Abaluhya consultative forum in Endebes, Gumo rubbished claims by Ruto that the President had taken his job and offered it to someone else. “You (Deputy President William Ruto) decided to abscond the duties assigned to you by your boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta, and now you are crying from the top of your voice that your duties were transferred to someone else," Gumo said. He said it was indeed the Deputy President who defied instructions from his boss. "It is hypocritical for someone to start crying at the top of his voice trying to get sympathy from Kenyans," he added. "You live in a government house in Karen, you are using government vehicles and security on top of the huge salaries you are drawing, were the same privileges taken away from you?” Gumo posed. On Sunday, the DP had said Uhuru took away his duties and gave other people. "I feel your pain. Those you assigned my responsibilities and 'project' mzee have let you down miserably," Ruto said. "They bungled our BIG4, killed our party and wasted your 2nd term. Boss, am available. Just a phone call away. Sadly the last cabinet was two years ago." The response came shortly after Uhuru said the DP and his allies have been misleading the nation about the true state of affairs regarding the economy. Further, without mentioning names, Gumo slammed a section of the political class whom he claimed had started sending fears of expelling members of one community for not subscribing to their political inclinations. "To those threatening to expel some communities they feel don’t support their cause, they will end up in the hands of law enforcers," he said. He said Trans Nzoia is a totally cosmopolitan County and those who are hell-bent on planting seeds of discord amongst peace-loving citizens should be dealt with by law enforcers. He asked residents not to fall prey to some politicians whose interest is to incite the residents. He also urged Trans Nzoia residents to support Azimio presidential flag bearer Raila Odinga, saying the country’s number two lacked any agenda for Kenyans. The elders who were led by John Makomboti affirmed that they will all be campaigning for the Azimio la Umoja Presidential Candidate Raila Odinga.