The Fifa World Trophy received glittering reception upon arrival in the country on Thursday. The private jet carrying the world’s most coveted trophy touched down at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 12:25 pm to a rapturous reception with fire brigade spraying water as the plane ground to a halt. Security was tight with armed policemen and staff from the Kenya Airports Authority strategically keeping a close eye on proceedings from various vantage points at the terminal. Fellow passengers on board the flight at terminal two wanted to catch a glimpse of the trophy and were craning their necks from the courtesy buses. In scorching hot conditions, Brazilian football star Juliano Belletti touched down on the tarmac dressed in a black suit and matching tie holding the World Cup trophy to applause from the small crowd gathered at the terminal. Sports Cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed, Trade CS Betty Maina and Tourism counterpart Najib Balala as well as Nairobi governor Anne Kananu posed with the trophy and took selfies with Belletti. The trophy then headed to State House Nairobi where President Uhuru Kenyatta said its presence is an inspiration to the country’s football fraternity. The President said the trophy’s presence in the country is also a great motivation to the youth to achieve greater football success. This is the fourth time Kenya is hosting the coveted trophy, with earlier stops having been in 2010, 2013 and 2018. “The Fifa World Cup remains the greatest sporting extravaganza in the world. From big cities to sleepy villages, the tournament is followed in every nation by enthusiastic fans from all segments of society. “It is, therefore, a moment of great privilege and profound honour for Kenya as we officially receive the Fifa World Cup Trophy on behalf of our nation,” President Kenyatta said before the 18-carat gold trophy was unveiled. “On behalf of the Government and the people of Kenya, it is an honour to be part of the 51 countries and territories that are part of the global tour of the sport’s most acclaimed trophy. I thank FIFA and all its partners, including Coca-Cola, for making this global tour a possibility and the stop in Kenya, a reality.” Coca Cola -Cola vice president East and Central African franchise,  Debrah Mallowah said: “As a country, we are delighted to receive the original trophy and I am asking fans to turn up in large numbers for the public viewing and take pictures.” “Football is a sport that unites us all in a unique way and this will be a moment for all of us to enjoy and be part of this global, iconic experience.” Fans will have an opportunity to see the trophy at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre today. Kenya is the second country on the continent to receive the trophy after Ethiopia with further stops in South Africa and Tanzania planned for next week. Five lucky Coca-Cola consumers will win a fully-paid trip to Qatar to watch a World Cup match live in December. Mallowah said preparations for the viewing ceremony are complete. “Since all eyes will be on Kenya during the time the trophy will be here, it is a superb opportunity to showcase our country. We, therefore, invite you all to be part of this historical moment.