Deputy President William Ruto has disclosed that more political parties have shown interest in joining the Kenya Kwanza movement. He said the parties are planning to ditch Azimio la Umoja for his coalition. Ruto, who was speaking at Nyeri during the funeral of late James Rerian, the brother of his running mate and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, said many leaders have begun to notice the difference between his team and that led by Raila Odinga. He cited the tribulations which PAA leader Amason Kingi and Alfred Mutua of MCC went through in search of coalition agreements before their exit as among the issues forcing leaders out of the camp. “This team that you are seeing with me is big and formidable… There are more coming to join us because they have realized what we had long ago is turning out to be true,” he said. He termed the Monday’s unfolding where Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka ditched Azimio after he felt shortchanged as among the reasons parties are planning to decamp from Azimio. “It is not possible to discuss the unity of a nation alongside deceit and conmaship in our leadership. The deceit in our politics is undermining the unity of our nation, and that is why on August 9, the people must reject deception so that we can free and move our country into the future,” he said. He also took a swipe at the Raila team, saying it does not have the people's interests at heart but only after positions in government. Reiterating his commitment to uplift the standards of people and improve the country's economy once elected, the DP said Kenya Kwanza is focused on leaving no Kenyan behind. He also praised Gachagua, his running mate, saying he was a man of a strong personality. “I was looking for a very strong personality because matters Kenya requires men and women who are not fickle, people who cannot escape responsibility or run away from challenges. Those who stand up and work out the problem,” said Ruto. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula (Ford K), Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, William Kabogo, and Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, among others, were present. Gachagua, on his part, vowed to remain loyal to Ruto if they ascend to power. Mudavadi said, “We want an organized government, which respects the rule of law, respects religion and wishes of the people, and that is found in Kenya Kwanza,” he said. Wetang'ula said that as a team, they are prepared and focused on the future, on economic revival and would not be distracted and taken hostage by "vestiges of the future". Kahiga said, “We have a tough battle ahead of us.”