Siaya residents can now conserve the environment after Koko Network launched the Koko fuel in the region, on Tuesday. Koko fuel uses Ethanol and is touted by the investor as the best alternative to wood, charcoal and LPG gas. Siaya becomes the fourth county to use Koko fuel after Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa. The Siaya County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) 2018-2022 says 84.2 per cent of the rural population in Siaya use firewood as their main source of fuel. The CIDP shows the number of Siaya residents who depend on charcoal as a source of fuel is the second-highest at 13.2 per cent. Usage of LPG gas and paraffin stands at 1.1 per cent and 0.8 per cent. The report says the main cooking appliances in the county include traditional three-stoned fireplace at 71.4 per cent and ordinary jikos at 10.8 per cent. Improved modern cookstove usage stands at 14.5 per cent, gas cooker at 2 per cent, kerosene stove at 0.6 per cent and electric cooker at 0.07 per cent. Koko agents need to instal ethanol ATMs inside their shops from where customers can refill their 2.5-litre canisters at an affordable price. Once at home, the canister is fitted to a two-burner cooking ware. “We are proud to announce our new network in Siaya. Previously, we have been focusing on big cities,” Koko Network chief executive officer Greg Murray said. Murray said Koko fuel lowers the cost of cooking, increases the quality of cooking and protects the environment. “There are no fumes, no smells, lower costs and a modern cooking experience that is safe,” he said. He said the company has partnered with Vivo Energies to stock their product locally. The launch of Koko comes at a time when the effects of climate change continue to be felt. The first Koko agent in Siaya town, Augustine Kisulu, said with less than two weeks in operation, 300 households have bought the product. “The product is cheap and will help many families to improve their cooking experience from charcoal, kerosene and firewood,” Kisulu said. The Gross County Product 2021 by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that Siaya is the 17th poorest out of 47 counties in Kenya. It contributes just a paltry one per cent of its wealth to the national Value Added Tax 2013-20. Edwin Ng’ong’a, who reportedly persuaded Koko Network to introduce the product in the county, said Siaya is pulling the tail in terms of forest coverage, partly due to high deforestation levels. The Kenya Forest Service in 2021 said Siaya had a forest cover of 0.42 per cent, making it the last among the six counties in the Nyanza region. “The high deforestation levels are because our people are fetching firewood and burning charcoal. Koko will save our forests because it emits no smoke and carbon monoxide,” Ng’ong’a said. He said the number of girls who risk their lives to sex pests and wild animals while fetching firewood in the bush is set to reduce. Instead, Ng’ong’a said the girls together with their small brothers will have ample time to go to school. Murray said Koko will be devolved to other towns and trading centres to improve ease of access. “Using Koko is to protect the environment and is better than LPG gas due to its low cost,” he said. Ng’ong’a urged residents to adopt the product, make money and improve their lives economically. Siaya's acting director in charge of Revenue Moses Kea said the product is cost-effective, safe and should be adopted. Edited by Kiilu Damaris