Safina Party presidential flagbearer and businessman Jimmy Wanjigi on Sunday enjoyed a warm reception in Siaya county. He graced the homecoming ceremony of his running mate Willis Otieno, 39, in Ng’iya. Otieno hails from the Kakan clan in Ng’iya, Alego-Usonga constituency. Wanjigi said that Otieno, a lawyer by profession, stood with him when the State was terrorizing his house in Nairobi for supporting Raila Odinga. As such, he noted that Otieno is fearless and suitable for the contest, further praising him as a true son of the soil who has great ideas on how to develop Kenya. He thanked the people of Siaya for birthing a strong and brilliant man in Otieno’s stature. He attended a Sunday prayer service at St. John’s ACK in Ng’iya before addressing residents at Ng’iya Primary school playing field. Being the home county to Azimio la Umoja presidential candidate Raila Odinga, there was a general feeling that Wanjigi would not be welcomed. But peace and love were palpable all over Ng’iya, even when he threw political salvos at Odinga, whom he described as his elder brother. It is only at the time of departure when some young people wanted to hang on his two helicopters for failing to leave them handouts. Wanjigi told residents that his competitors in Kenya Kwanza and Azimio don't fit the bill. “Odinga is a legend and we love him but Omicron virus (understood as those supporting him) is standing behind him,” he said as the audience jumped into a frenzy. He described his fellows as corrupt people who should all be ‘swept out’ of political leadership. Wanjigi said they are fearless in their pursuit of the presidency. “I have chosen one of your good sons to be my running mate in the quest for leadership of this country. I have chosen him against all odds, knowing fully well that my elder brother and fellow contestant Raila Odinga comes from this county,” he said. He continued: “But we are fearless in our direction because we know the challenges this nation faces". Wanjigi said that it is against the tenets of justice for a huge chunk of the Kenyan population to lack in a country that has plenty. “Justice is for fairness for all of mankind. Not just a few. Time has now come for all of us to be part of this cake called Kenya, not just a few,” he said. We are seeking to change from a nation where inhabitants lack even the very basics like food and water, Wanjigi pointed out. On his part, Otieno who was flanked by his parents Richard Ochieng’ Odongo and Mary Atieno Ochieng’, said that they had come for blessings from his homies. “Our campaign is about giving an opportunity to new Kenyans and new ideas. We who have felt the pain of mismanaged resources in this country are offering ourselves as alternatives on the ballot,” Otieno said. He decried violence during electioneering, saying that ideas should be left to compete. “Our problems today are economic. Who will bear the brunt of that economic problem? It is mostly young people. They are the once who have the future and we must involve them in governance,” Otieno said. He observed that the communities along Lake Victoria are using the resource to swim yet it is an economic powerhouse. If elected to the presidency, Otieno said that they will make Lake Victoria and every other resource in Kenya to be economically meaningful to 99% of the population who have suffered as past regimes plundered the nation. Wanjigi and Otieno were scheduled to go to Homa Bay county after the Siaya meeting but that failed to happen. They vowed to head to Homa bay nonetheless. “We are encouraged by your support. We are being told that ahead is chaotic but that is where we are going after here. If they have anything to show us then we are going to see with our eyes,” Wanjigi said.