Optiven Foundation has launched a sponsorship programme for Technical and Vocational Education Training students in Nyeri county. Foundation chairman George Wachiuri said the Soaring Eagles Scholarship Programme will enable more needy students in the county to enrol in TVET institutions. The programme will be rolled out in all the other counties across the country, he said. Wachiuri said the programme will increase youth employability and inspire possibilities in society. He spoke during the launch of the programme at Labura Secondary School in Kieni constituency, Nyeri, on Thursday. Wachiuri said the foundation has supported many needy learners to advance their education. The foundation has also engaged in environmental preservation, improved lives and livelihoods for senior citizens, provided food in marginalised counties and promoted health. It has sponsored more than 50 students through primary and secondary education. “Kenya is a youthful country. Data shows that 80 per cent of Kenya’s population is below 35 years. We however have 97 per cent of youth who aren’t employed and skilled, and by sponsoring in TVET institutions, we will transform their lives and make them more responsible and self-reliant,” Wachiuri said. The TVET programme, he said, will go hand in hand with other projects undertaken by the foundation to empower society. The TVET institutions that will be picked to offer these skills, Wachiuri said, will be expected to offer best practice in skills training, effectively addressing emerging skill gaps. They should also be in a position to align their training with industry needs, engage industries, government and corporate for a holistic skills ecosystem. “We will ensure we have put in place a sustainable infrastructure for youth training, improve instructor training capacities, access to training opportunities in employable areas, institutional capacities and finally increase transition to employment,” Wachiuri said. Sponsored students will be mentored and their performance monitored until they start earning. The foundation has also been making visits to children's homes, built homes for the elderly and donated wheelchairs to the disabled. Edited by A.N