Supporters of Azimio in Taita Taveta have asked the alliance leadership to drop any zoning plans in the county. They said any attempt to force some governor and senator candidates in Azimio la Umoja- One Kenya Alliance affiliated parties to drop their bids in favour of others might push supporters to Kenya Kwanza. Addressing journalists in Voi on Monday, they said zoning would scatter the strong political base the alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga enjoys in the region. Thomas Njumwa, an ODM delegate, said the recent propaganda about an agreement to zone Taita Taveta is an outright lie. "There has been no such deliberations among aspirants,” he said. Njumwa said all aspirants should be allowed to face off at the ballot. “The said ill-thought propaganda is a wider scheme by the merchants of political division,” he said. Njumwa said some Kenya Kwanza sympathisers, whom he said have positioned themselves as Azimio loyalists, want Raila to lose votes in the county and help UDA aspirants win seats. “It is a well-known fact that some of these leaders are still holding conversations with Deputy President William Ruto with total disregard of the Azimio-One Kenya Alliance,” Njumwa said. The governor's race in the county has attracted 14 aspirants, with at least five vying on Azimio-One Kenya Alliance affiliated parties. They are incumbent Governor Granton Samboja (Jubilee Party), former Senator Dan Mwazo (Wiper), media personality Patience Nyange (Narc), Elijah Mwandoe (PAA) and Tom Mwakwida of ODM. Insiders have hinted that there has been a push in the Azimio camp to convince some of the hopefuls to drop their bid. But Nyange told the Star there is no zoning plans in the county. Other candidates seeking to unseat Governor Samboja are former Governor John Mruttu, Mwatate MP Andrew Mwadime, Stephen Mwakesi and Rachael Mwakazi. George Mwandembo, Prof Agnes Mwang'ombe, Faustin Mghendi, Godino Mwasaru and Onsemus Mwinzi are also seeking to win the seat. Waki Jarongo, an Azimio supporter, asked all aspirants in the alliance to collectively campaign for Raila to help him win the presidency. “All candidates in the alliance should be accorded equal opportunity to campaign and incumbency should not be seen as an advantage,” the political analyst said. Waki said further divisions might increase DP Ruto’s popularity in the area considered an ODM zone. Ruto’s UDA party has attracted a battery of youthful aspirants in the county, thus commanding a significant share of support in the region. Edited by A.N