Two leaders from Isiolo have protested against an alleged plot to close down a local mining site in one of the areas declared by police as a disturbed zone. Instead, they want the security agencies to focus on flushing out bandits raiding various parts of the county, killing people and stealing herds of cattle. Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa and Isiolo North MP Hassan Hulufo said closing the Durte mining centre in Kom division will affect thousands of residents who depend on the site for a living. “We are aware there are external forces that have tried to close down the Durte mining centre in the past and may misdirect the security operation from flushing out bandits causing mayhem to innocent residents eking out a living from their community land,” Hulufo said. “It is our considered view that declaration of Kom sublocation as a disturbed areas will not provide a lasting solution to the insecurity problems in Kom division.” He said the insecurity that has rocked the county in the recent past is caused by external forces. “The root cause of our insecurity is external and emanates from Samburu county and Laisamis subcounty,” the MP said. Isiolo, Marsabit and Samburu have witnessed a wave of insecurity in the recent past with scores killed, several maimed and herds of cattle killed. Last week, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i declared a one-month curfew in parts of Marsabit and deployed special security agents to flush out bandits and restore order after a series of attacks. The legislators said Durte mining is not an illegal but an informal site that more than 3,000 residents depend on for a living. “Durte is part of unregistered Waso Boran community land and the land owners are using basic tools and manual labour for excavation and extraction of minerals,” he said. The residents, he said, have enlisted the support of skilled workers in manual excavation and extraction from other parts of the country. They include Moyale, Meru, Migori, Kakamega and Taita Taveta. “The activity has helped to reduce youth unemployment and contributed to poverty reduction significantly,” Hulufo said. He added, “They have a welfare group and the officers deployed can work with them during the security operation to ensure objective of the operation is achieved.” They denied reports that proceeds from mining activities are being used to fund illegal activities including bandit attacks in the county and beyond. They said the government should focus on flushing out bandits and arming national police reservists to boost security in the area and beyond. “We requested security operation to flush out the rogue bandits from the neighbouring counties and fast-tracking of issuance of national police reservists guns,” Jaldesa said. She added, “We are grateful NPRs have been issued with guns although the number is grossly inadequate to police the vast insecure rangeland. She said they have proposed to the government to set up a special and permanent GSU camp in Kom area as a long term deterrence against raiders from neighbouring counties. “We affirm our support for security operation to deal comprehensively with livestock raiders within and outside our county and fight against drug trafficking especially marijuana sourced from Ethiopia,” he said.   -Edited by SKanyara