The battle for the next Trans Nzoia County woman representative has intensified. The seat is currently held by Janet Wanyama Nangabo. Aspirants are flexing their political muscles in a bid to outwit each other come to the August 9, polls. The incumbent officeholder is defending her seat as an independent candidate after being denied the Democratic Action Party. Nairobi businesswoman Fanice Khatundi, her main challenger was given nod to fly the Leopard party ticket. The DAP ticket had attracted the interest of Nangabo, Khatundi, Sussan Nelima Murumba and Esther Olenje Koli. Koli and Murumba decamped to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party after seeing chances of missing out on the ticket. Nangabo and Khatundi who remained in the party could however not agree on who was suitable to fly the DAP party's ticket. "Even after being coerced to quit UDA on the promissory note of being given a direct ticket, someone without shame tells me that I'm unsuitable! My calls for nomination were rejected by those calling themselves party owners," Nangabo said. "If you are a man and you allow yourself to bring me down because I am a woman then you have a problem. What goes around will come back to you." Nangabo who was elected in 2013 on the New Ford Kenya ticket is the most hands-on compared to her competitors having been elected twice. Murumba, on the other hand, has secured the Jubilee party ticket and has rolled her sleeves ready for the contest. She launched appeals to Azimio affiliate parties to shelve their bid for her to balance the equation. "We must be sober ourselves up and desist from this political lust for everything. DAP K must not think every seat is for its aspirant," She said during a service at the Kitale Salvation Army Corps Sunday service. Nangabo told the Star that she is prepared to face off her opponents on the ballot. She is banking on her experience and development record to outsmart her rivals. Nangabo is now working with the Kiminini Legislator Chris Wamalwa who is eyeing the governor seat on a Ford Kenya ticket. The new political kid in the race is Lilian Chebet Siyoi who launched her campaign in Kitale last month. During the launch, she expressed optimism that she will floor her opponents come August polls. Others in the race include Dr Susan Nakumicha (Ford Kenya), Noami Okul Wanjala (ODM) and Eunice Karanja (The Service Party of Kenya). ODM Candidate Naomi Wanjala Okul who once served as the Maendeleo ya wanawake National Treasurer is not taking chances either. Okul credits herself for mentoring young women who found themselves nominated to the former defunct Kitale Municipal Council and Nzoia County assembly respectively. "I mentored many women including Margaret Odembo who was my then a tailor in Kitale town and assisted her to be nominated as a councillor. Leadership is all about letting those you feel are capable have a chance," she said. Tribe and party are some of the factors likely to influence the outcome.  The Bukusu community has a numerical advantage. Dr Nakhumicha is vying for the second time on the Simba Party. "I’m in this race to win against all odds, nothing is going to stop me from winning," she said. The youthful doctor enjoys the support of her  Ford Kenya party.