Kenya is seeking to penetrate the coffee market in Africa, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. He said this will give the country an unrivalled opportunity to enhance economic growth by enhancing exports of coffee to a number of African countries. Uhuru said in the last five years, from 2016-21, only 58,424 tonnes of clean coffee have been exported to 11 countries. The President's speech was read by Agriculture CS Peter Munya on Wednesday during the opening of the first G25 African Coffee Summit in Nairobi. “The summit will provide a venue to amplify the African Continental Free Trade Area. This will provide for the movement of persons, capital, goods, and services to deepen economic integration and promotion of agricultural development, food security, industrialisation and structural economic transformation in the continent,” Uhuru said. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the summit aims to marshal consensus on a declaration of coffee as an anchor commodity in the African Union in harmony with the Africa Agenda 2063. Coffee continues to be a major contributor to foreign exchange earnings, is a source of livelihoods to an estimated 10 million people in Africa and attracts direct and indirect investments. "On the global stage, we recognise Brazil, Vietnam, Colombia, and Indonesia who are the leaders in coffee production, amongst the more than 50 coffee producing countries,” Uhuru said. The President said despite accruing benefits from the coffee sector on the continent, African coffee producers continue to face production challenges. Uhuru said the government has allocated Sh3.5 billion towards the establishment of a cherry advance revolving fund, which is now fully operational. "We have also allocated Sh1.2 billion towards the establishment of a fertiliser subsidy scheme which has effectively lowered the cost of farm inputs," he said. "My government continues to reorganise the institutional framework within the coffee industry which is aimed at re-invigorating regulatory, trading and coffee research services." Uhuru said the efforts made have boosted growers’ morale and increased investments in coffee farms. Edited by A.N