Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki has explained why he was a no show during the unveiling of Deputy President William Ruto's running mate on Sunday at Karen. The Kenya Kwanza Coalition settled on Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua as Ruto's running mate. On Wednesday, Kindiki said he missed the event due to poor timing and miscommunication. In an interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday, Kindiki revealed that the meeting on who would be the best deputy to Ruto ended at around midnight, and he left the DP's residence at around 4 am on Sunday morning. "In the morning, I went to my regular place of worship, and I think the DP went to a church within his residence. But my church service was delayed a bit." The senator explained that some of his colleagues who were present during the unveiling alerted him, and he immediately left the church. "I saw a missed call from my party leader, I called back, but he didn't pick... I knew that the decision had been announced," he said, adding that he couldn't have made it to Ruto's residence on time. A section of Mt Kenya leaders had rooted for Kindiki as Kenya Kwanza's number two, but after a 17-hour long meeting, the leadership resolved to hand Gachagua the running mate post. A day later on Monday, Kindiki announced his retirement from active politics effective August 10. He said he wouldn’t equally be available for any appointive position but would campaign for Ruto and the Kenya Kwanza team. “My attempt having failed, I have taken the decision to take a break from elective politics starting August 10,” he said. “I will use the break to reorganise myself as I support my party UDA and Kenya Kwanza to ensure they deliver to Kenyans on assuming office." While unveiling Gachagua, Ruto said the team settled on him because he is an astute debator, is principled, resilient and a fearless fighter. "Gachagua is my friend whom I have worked with, especially on that Bottom-Up Economic model and we started that journey together. He understands people's issues, he is passionate about ordinary people," Ruto said.