A total of 55 presidential aspirants beat the May 16, 2022 IEBC deadline for submitting their names and that of their running mates. IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati said the candidates include one coalition party aspirant, 14 political party aspirants and 40 independent candidate aspirants. In a statement on Wednesday, Chebukati said 244 gubernatorial aspirants and their running mates also beat the deadline. The number includes 167 political party aspirants and 77 independent candidate aspirants. "The presidential and gubernatorial aspirants will be cleared as candidates by the Presidential Returning Officer and the County Returning Officers respectively, during the registration period, once their qualification to contest in the respective elective positions are ascertained," Chebukati said. However, a gazette notice dated May 13 indicated that the commission had listed 38 presidential aspirants who had expressed interest to contest the presidency as independent candidates. It listed 748 others interested to run as independents for seats in the National Assembly, 74 for the governor seats, 108 for senate, 95 for woman representative while 4,738 individuals had expressed interest to vie for the MCA seats as independent candidates. Chebukati said the presidential and gubernatorial aspirants will be cleared by the Commission’s Returning Officers between May 29 and June 7, 2022. "Prior to the said registration, the Returning Officers shall hold pre-nomination meetings with aspirants, to among others, brief them on the requirements and procedures for registration of candidates," Chebukati said. He said the pre-nomination meeting for the presidential and gubernatorial aspirants will be held on May 23, 2022 at the Bomas of Kenya from 8 am. "Aspirants for the other elective positions will be informed of dates for pre-nomination meetings by their respective Returning Officers," Chebukati said. He reminded presidential aspirants to ensure the list of supporters of at least 2000 registered voters in each of the majority of counties must be accompanied by copies of the supporters’ identification documents. Chebukati further asked the aspirants and their deputies who hold degrees from foreign Universities to obtain recognition and equation of their academic qualifications from the Commission for University Education before registration as candidates.