Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua has said that she will spare no one in the fight against corruption. Speaking in Subukia, Nakuru County Karua reiterated Azimio la Umoja's willingness to change the lives of the poor Kenyans by making sure the economy is revamped, if they win the August elections. The former Gichugu MP promised that the Azimio government will continue with the programs initiated by the late Mwai kibaki such as free education and those started by President Uhuru Kenyatta. "We have poor Kenyans who are going to bed hungry, under the Azimio government, we have promised to give those families Sh6,000 every month," Karua said. "We will also revamp the economy so that we can give young people hope of employment and a better future. However, we cannot improve the economy unless we fight corruption and we in Azimio have promised we will do that." She added that the choice of her as the Azimio running mate and Justice and Constitutional affairs CS is a sign enough that Raila Odinga is ready to fight corruption. Karua, however, said that the law will be applied fairly and no one will be unlawfully targeted in the fight against corruption. "It will not matter whether it is my brother or my friend, the law will be applied fairly to all. We are not people of vendetta, we don't hate anyone but those who abuse the privileges given to them by the Kenyan people, your days are numbered," she said. She urged the people of Subukia to vote for Raila as the fifth president and Azimio leaders as they're the only leaders who have the interests of Kenyans at heart. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya who accompanied Karua said that the government will make sure that fertilizer is readily available for all farmers at the Subukia NCPB. Munya said that he will make sure together with area leaders that women and youth groups get access to the NCPB so that they can get the cheap fertilizer. “We have made sure that Fertilizer at the NCPB is available at sh 2800 as compared to sh6000 that is currently being sold. We have also subsidized the fertilizer that is applied in coffee farms and is readily available,” he said. The CS requested the people of Nakuru to vote for Azimio la Umoja government so that he can continue discharging his duties for the betterment of the agriculture sector in Kenya. Azimio Nakuru day-two has seen the team traverse Nakuru County through Subukia, Kabazi, Maili Kumi, Milia sita, Barnabas, Kokepey, Gilgil, Naivasha and Mai Mahiu.