A police recruit vanished from a training college barely two months after he joined. Authorities are looking for recruit Abdi Hassan Omar, 26 who went missing from Kiganjo Police Training College on Saturday May 28. Officials said he took his breakfast before he went missing. A police signal sent from the college and circulated among police officers said he was born and raised in Iftin, Garissa county. “He is a Luhya by tribe and was raised by his uncle in Garissa where he was recruited,” read part of the signal. “Please all note above escapee from the college could be dangerous. Inform all officers to be keen on the same. Thanks.” Commandant Japheth Koome refused to discuss the incident. It is not clear what triggered the move by the recruit who had trained for two moths. The recruits joined the college on April 1 and are to train for nine months before being deployed to the field. Even though they had not covered much, there are concerns about Omar's moves. Officials aware of the hunt on Omar said teams had been sent to his homes both in Garissa and Mumias for further background checks. The teams want to establish if he had been exposed to any form of radicalism and extremism. “We do not know if he was a silent recruit of any criminal organisation or he decided to leave because of the training at the college which he found punitive,” an official aware of the search said. The fears stem from past experiences where thousands of Kenyan youths have been recruited and joined criminal groups like al Shabaab and later came back to haunt the country. Kenya has ramped up operations to tame terror plans by the group which has been responsible for a number of attacks that left many dead and injured. The terrorists have been using among others Improvised Explosive Devices to attack targets. Officials said this shows the threat of IEDs remain persistent. Officials said the terrorists are exploiting the low cost strategy and deploying it near forward operating bases or main supply routes to attack their targets. This is happening both locally especially in northern part of the country and in Somalia. KDF troops are among those under Amisom that are operating in Somalia. Their aim is to suppress al Shabaab activities in the region. KDF went to Somalia in October 2011. Kenya's incursion into southern Somalia started after the kidnapping of two Spanish women, who were working for MSF at Dadaab refugee camp. The abductions were carried out by the militants whose the troops planned to push away under the Operation Linda Nchi. Two years later, the troops managed to take control of Kismayo port under Operation Sledge Hammer. The government saw the attacks as a threat to the country’s sovereignty as it targeted tourism, which is an economic lifeline. 