The race to unseat Trans Nzoia Woman Representative Janet Nangabo has intensified with several aspirants wooing the electorate for support. Nangabo is defending her seat as an independent candidate after being denied the Democratic Action Party of Kenya ticket. The ticket was handed to Nairobi-based businesswoman Fanice Khatundi. Nangabo, Khatundi, Former Trans Nzoia Public Service executive Sussan Nelima and Esther Olenje Koli were all eyeing the DAP-K ticket. However Koli and Nelima decamped to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party before the nomination. Nelima has since secured the Jubilee ticket. Nangabo and Khatundi who remained in DAP-K could however not agree to let one of them go for the seat. Nangabo who enjoys the power of incumbency said she is better placed to successfully get back her seat, a matter no one in the party could give ear to. The woman representative said even after being coerced to quit UDA on the promise of being given a direct ticket, "someone without shame tells me that I'm unsuitable!" She said her calls for nomination were rejected by those calling themselves party owners. "If you are a man and you allow yourself to be used to bring me down, simply because I'm a woman in the race you are not vying, then you have a problem. What goes around will come back to you," Nangabo said. The legislator who was elected in 2013 on the New Ford Kenya ticket is a dangerous political chessboard player and her experience shouldn’t be underrated. Nelima who has also rolled up her sleeves to dislodge the incumbent said she told Azimio affiliate parties to shelve their ambitions for the seat since they were already fielding former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya for Trans Nzoia governor. "We must sober ourselves up and desist from political lust. DAP-K must not think every seat is up for it’s aspirants’ grabs," Nelima said during a service at the Kitale Salvation Army Corps on Sunday. Nangabo however said she is prepared to face off her opponents at the ballot. The legislator who is known for her sayings, is a good orator and is banking on her experience and development record to outsmart her rivals. The woman representative has decided to work with Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, who is eyeing the county’s top seat under the Kenya Kwanza alliance. A new entrant, Lilian Chebet Siyoi, said she is optimistic that she will beat all her opponents pants down come August 9. The shrewd business woman launched her campaigns in Kitale last month. Others in the race are Dr Susan Nakumicha (Ford Kenya), Noami Okul Wanjala (ODM) and Eunice Karanja (Service Party of Kenya). Okul who once served as the Maendeleo ya wanawake National Treasurer said she is not taking chances and is optimistic of clinching the seat. She is credited for mentoring young women who found themselves nominated to the defunct Kitale municipal council and Nzoia county council. "I mentored many women including Margaret Odembo who was by then a tailor in Kitale town. I assisted her to be nominated as a councilor. Leadership is all about letting those you feel are capable to have chance", she said. Tribe and party are some of the factors likely to influence the woman representative outcome. The Bukusu community has numerical advantage and the vote is expected to be split among the contestants from the community namely, Nangabo, Nelima and Nakumicha. Nakhumicha is taking a second stab at the seat on the Simba Party. "I’m in this race to win against all odds, nothing is going to stop me from winning," she said. The youthful doctor enjoys the support of her party Ford Kenya, which she has stuck to even after failing to clinch the seat. Karanja is taking her third stab at the coveted seat. She commands a large following from her "Nyumba ya Muumbi" community, which is expected to vote for her as a bloc. Siyoi will enjoy the support from her Sabaot community and that of her Bukusu husband Walubengo Wa Mang’oli who is also a shrewd businessman, commanding respect in the community. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)