Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has promised to mainstream people living with disabilities in government if elected President. The group has consistently protested over discriminating policies and government programmes that alienate them based on their disability challenges including being denied leadership positions. The ODM leader said the county's people living with disabilities have the potential, just like other able Kenyans, to participate in meaningful national development if given the opportunity. Speaking at Nyayo Stadium on Tuesday where he held a meeting with groups of people living with disabilities, Raila promised to roll out social protection measures to alleviate their suffering. Raila said if elected President in the August 9 general election, he will immediately implement a radical plan that will help their health, medical, rehabilitative, education and special welfare. “My plan will also aim to reduce parental pressure and promote targeted social interventions and promote self-reliance of persons with disabilities,” Raila said adding that he will ensure that there is no discrimination and stigma. Raila said he had constituted a team of people living with disabilities who will be integrated into the presidential campaigns to traverse the country for votes. The Azimio flag bearer asked the community of this special category of people to back his presidential bid this year knowing too well that he will better their lives if elected. “I appeal for your support so that together we can realise these goals,” Raila said during the meeting also attended by some of the ODM leaders living with disabilities. Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and nominated MP Danita Gathi, members of the people living with disabilities, organised the meeting. Raila said that his administration will embrace all forms of disability sensitive measures to ensure that this category equally contributes to development by having access to opportunities. “Disability is not inability, the people who are disabled have a very important role to play in our society, they should be assisted and enabled to be able to perform to their abilities,” Raila said. He said he will work together with people living with disabilities to ensure they exploit their potential saying he has a record of working for the welfare of the vulnerable groups. “When I was minister for roads and public works, I gave an order that all public buildings in our country must be user friendly for people with disabilities,” Raila said.