Murang’a governor aspirant Jamleck Kamau has pledged to ensure all health facilities are fully equipped in the first 30 days if elected. Kamau said residents have suffered for long over lack of drugs in hospitals, a situation that has forced many not to seek medical services. He said if elected, health will be a priority as it directly affects the productivity of residents and the local economy. “Sick people cannot work and be as productive as they should. This will be a priority for my government,” Kamau said as he held rallies in Kangema constituency on Sunday. The former Kigumo MP has been organising free medical camps in the county and has so far facilitated 11 camps in a bid to take health services to the people. The camps have been offering general treatment services, optical and dental services and screened women for cervical cancer. Kamau expressed concerns that about two per cent of all women screened during the camps tested positive for cervical cancer, saying it is an indication the disorder is on the rise. He also pledged to ensure a level 5 hospital is established at Kenol town in Maragua constituency, saying the rapidly growing town with a surging population has no hospital to serve it. Kamau lauded residents for voting overwhelmingly for him in 2017 but said the Jubilee Party nominations were bungled and he was locked out. “That was not our time. But our time has come now and that is why I am appealing to you to walk with me,” he told Kanyenya-ini residents. He said he will ensure issues of poor road network and low water connectivity in the area are addressed. The county, he said, requires a strong leader to streamline its operations, asking residents to shun leaders who are hiding behind their parties to get votes. “I know you support me and I will not hide the fact that I am in Jubilee Party, but the most important thing is to know who you vote for,” he said. In 2017, Kamau said, residents voted in six-piece fashion, which he attributed to the many challenges they are currently facing. “I have come with Jubilee Party but when you vote for me, I will be the one addressing your problems and not the party,” he said. Kamau further promised to seal all loopholes used by county workers to misappropriate funds. He said well-off families have been taking advantage of their status to deny children from poor families a chance to join good schools. This, he said, worsens the poverty cycle in the families and denies them the opportunity to better the lives of their families. Kamau said together with his running mate, Naomi Kagone, they will ensure all their pledges are implemented and all parts of the county improved. “Together, we will demonstrate how a governor and deputy should work together,” he said.  (edited by Amol Awuor)