Kenya National Union of Teachers and the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers in Trans Nzoia county have endorsed the governor bid of George Natembeya. Union officials said they are fully behind the former Rift Valley commissioner due to his track record in the civil service for 26 years. The officials spoke on Saturday during a consultative meeting at Levoyage hotel. Led by Knut secretary George Wanjala and the Kuppet’s treasurer Maxwell Nyangeri they urged teachers to support Natembeya’s bid. “If the Azimio leader Raila Odinga and President uhuru Kenyatta have unanimously endorsed Natembeya, who are we to make a contrary opinion?” Wanjala asked. Wanjala said teachers have their democratic right to choose who they want to support. “The leadership of Knut wish to categorically state that teachers have no business supporting an establishment which cares less when it comes to their interests,” Wanjala said. He urged other professionals not to shy away from supporting Natembeya, whom they said will revive the economy of the county . Nyangeri said their union has also decided to throw their weight behind Natembeya. He said teachers’ needs can only be assured if they work with an aspirant who is best suited to address their needs. “We are not ready to be left out of government this time and we will not accept to remain in the losing  team,” he said. Kuppet assistant treasurer Janerose Mutama said they fully support Natembeya as their best alternative. She said their goal is to ensure all residents enjoy devolution. “We are ready to partner with an administration that is ready to liberate this county from collapse. We see Natembeya as the best solution for this county, whose resources have been poorly utilised,” she said. Knut chairman Wilberforce Wamalwa, Jane Mutasio and Joseph Namunyala, who represents ECDE said teachers championing Natembeya’s bid will be crisscrossing the county asking votes. High school principals-Allan Odhiambo, Maurice Lukuyani and Martin Orenga said professionals need to critic manifestos of aspirants seeking to serve in public offices. However, a rival group in Kuppet led by the executive secretary Lusweti has voiced support for Kenya Kwanza aspirant Chris Wamalwa. (Edited by Tabnacha O)