An outbreak of malaria in Western Kenya and the Rift Valley is likely in the next two months, weather and health experts have warned. This is due to high temperatures and expected heavy rains in the next two months. “The model outputs for the malaria epidemic early prediction system for the Western highlands of Kenya indicate high risk of malaria outbreak in Kakamega and Nandi and low risk in Kisii in the months of May and June 2022,” Stella Aura, the Met director, said on Thursday. She said the epidemic threshold for Kakamega is 30 per cent yet the risk in that area now stands at 45 per cent. For Nandi, the epidemic threshold is 20 per cent yet the percentage risk is currently placed at 30 per cent. “The weather observations indicate generally an increase in monthly rainfall amounts in all the three areas,” she said. The prediction was issued by the Kenya Meteorological Department, Kenya Medical Research Institute and the Ministry of Health. It covers areas around Kakamega, Kisii and Nandi, where past seasonal outbreaks have killed hundreds of people. The last major outbreak here was reported in 2019 between March and May and a small spike during the short rains season in November and December of the same year. In Kenya, seasonal outbreaks are mostly reported in the western highlands areas of Kericho, Nandi, Eldama Ravine, Bomet, Uasin Gishu, Nyamira, Kisii and Trans Mara. Others are the semi-arid areas such as northern Baringo, Turkana, parts of West Pokot, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Tana River. Seasonal outbreaks come when temperatures are high and water pools created during events of above-normal rainfall provide mosquitoes with numerous breeding habitats, experts say. These new breeding areas could be pan dams, concrete tanks, ditches and trenches that get filled up with water. This results in an increased intensity of malaria transmission that occasionally reaches epidemic proportions. Epidemics in this zone are generically predictable since they follow the seasonality of the rainfall. Case fatality rates due to malaria during an epidemic can rise to ten times greater than what is experienced in regions where malaria is stable, the survey says. Aura said no part of the country will receive above-average or enhanced rainfall, especially in April. The prediction comes just before the ministry deployed Cuban Malaria Vector Control experts to the eight malaria-endemic counties in Kenya. The eight malaria endemic counties include Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori, Siaya, Busia, Bungoma, Vihiga and Kakamega. The experts will work with county health teams in the implementation of the Kenya-Cuba Malaria Vector Control Project launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kilifi last year. According to the Dr Willis Akhwale, there are 10 Cuban specialists deployed across the region to diversify preventive measures. Akhwale is the senior malaria advisor for the Africa Leaders’ Malaria Alliance currently chaired by Uhuru. He is also the current secretary to the Kenya End Malaria Council. “One has been deployed to each of the eight counties and two supervisors based in Kisumu,” Akhwale said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)