United Democratic Alliance Party will nominate Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko to the national assembly after the general election. In a communication to Tobiko on Friday from the UDA leadership in Kajiado, the MP was assured she will be nominated after the August 9 general election. The UDA plan on sharing seats in Kajiado contained in the communication letter to Tobiko also indicated that Kajiado South will take the governor seat. In the plan, Kajiado West will produce a women representative, Kajiado Central will produce a senator, and Kajiado East will be given a national assembly nomination seat. The party has also decided that Kajiado North will be given the position of a woman deputy governor, who is expected to be unveiled today (Friday). Meanwhile, two Kajiado governor aspirants have pitched camps in the Kimana area of Loitokitok in search of votes. Katoo ole Metito (UDA) met the people of Kimana on Thursday at the home of nominated MCA Jackeline Lalaito, who officially defected from governor Joseph Lenku’s team of ODM. On the same day, former governor David Nkedianye (Jubilee) had a series of meetings in Kimana town, Sompet, Olorika and Elanga Enkima areas. At the home of MCA Lalaito, Katoo urged the people to support him in the coming general election so that he can bring desired changes in his administration. “We have wasted five good years under governor Lenku. If you elect me, I will use my management skills to turn around our economy in this county,” said Katoo. He said Kajiado has a lot of natural resources that if harnessed well, will turn around the lives of the Kajiado people. Nominated MCA Yvonne Tonkei, who also spoke in the meeting, welcomed MCA Lalaito along with her husband, John Lalaito, to UDA. “This is the team to beat, this is a team that will give Lenku sleepless nights ahead of this coming general election,” said Tonkei. Nkedianye, while addressing a rally in Kimana, assured the people that he will provide the leadership needed to deliver their priorities. The former governor was accompanied by Kajiado South parliamentary aspirant, Bishop John Singaru, James Kasaine MCA aspirant Kimana Ward, and James Lomunyak MCA aspirant Kuku ward.