The Centre for Multiparty Democracy - Kenya (CMD) will oversee the elections of the Kenyan Premier League club, AFC Leopards slated for June 26. In a statement released on Monday, the club said CMD will lay a conducive ground for the election of new officials in line with the Sports Act. “The National Executive Committee is pleased to announce that it has appointed the Centre for Multiparty Democracy - Kenya (CMD) as the independent body in charge of running and overseeing this year's elections,” the statement read. “As a result, CMD will exercise authority and provide rules and guidelines to regulate the exercise. The club will provide the required support since this provides an ideal opportunity to undertake meaningful elections in accordance with the Sports Act,” the statement concluded. Meanwhile, AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda has confirmed he will be defending his seat in the forthcoming polls. Shikanda said he needs more time to complete some of the projects he had envisioned for the club upon assuming office in 2019. “The club election is on and shall be held on June 26 and yes, I will defend my seat because we have a lot of things we intend to achieve,” Shikanda said. Leopards have nothing tangible to display since its inception in 1964 and that's why we must burn the midnight oil to develop the club," Shikanda said. The ex-Kenyan international said the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic scuttled some of the plans they had put in place for the club. “The pandemic spread across two good years, leaving us with only one year to achieve our objectives,” Shikanda said. The AFC honcho outlined some of their dreams for the 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions, including securing a permanent training ground. “We want to gift our loyal fans with a present they will forever be proud of and that's a training ground which our players really deserve.” "It's a big concern that after 56 years of existence, we are yet to secure a training ground,” Shikanda lamented. Shikanda also said he would still fulfill his earlier pledge of rewarding each player with a house if they happen to clinch the league. Leopards had earlier been allocated a 20-acre parcel of land by former president Daniel Arap Moi in Kasarani whose title deed they are yet to acquire. In the last elections held at Moi Stadium Kasarani on June 23, 2019, Shikanda garnered 457 votes to beat Bernard Musundi who managed 165. Namai Ronald came third with 72. Oliver Shikuku was at the same time elected to serve as the club's secretary-general after garnering 570 against Robert Situma's 124. Maurice Chichi clinched the Treasurer's seat with 506 votes against Napali Imbezi's 18.