President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies have intensified campaigns to popularise the Jubilee party in Nakuru, threatening to turn the tables on William Ruto's UDA party. Candidates for various seats have been hosting grassroots activation campaigns across the county, offering fresh impetus for the ruling party. A lobby group of Jubilee aspirants in Nakuru county led by Bahati constituency aspirant Irene Njoki is leading the campaigns. The aspirant is seeking to unseat incumbent MP Kimani Ngunjiri of the UDA party. For the last three months, Irene has led aspirants in rolling out several activities to drum up support for the Jubilee party as well as her Bahati constituency bid. “We are determined to restore Jubilee's lost glory in the county of Nakuru. Let nobody lie to you that Jubilee is dead in Nakuru, the party is very much vibrant,” said Njoki. The aspirants led by Njoki have launched an activation campaign dubbed Mrembo na Kazi Sports Extravaganza that has seen various teams crowned after emerging winners. The events entail participants donning Jubilee branded T-shirts and strategic messaging on social media platforms, all aimed at popularising the ruling party. Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui is leading the Jubilee campaigns in the county after he decamped from the Ubuntu People's Forum party. Governor Kinyanjui and Njoki have been asking Nakuru residents to vote for candidates with a clear vision. “It is time to put in office people with a proven track record so that we get leaders with sound policies that can transform the economy,” said Njoki. Others campaigning for Jubilee are former lndustrialisation Chief Administrative Secretary Lawrence Macharia Karanja. Karanja is the party’s senatorial candidate while Agnes Njambi is eyeing the Woman Rep post. Others are parliamentary aspirants who include; Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Peter Cheruiyoit Mtumishi (Kuresoi South), Andrew Kibet Komen (Rongai), Nelson Gaichuihe (Subukia) and Joseph Kiuna (Njoro). Kariki Gichuki (Molo), Joel Ayieni (Kuresoi North), Solomon Ndegwa (Naivasha), and Benson Mwangi (Nakuru East) are also in the race to fly the Jubilee flag.