Some Kaya elders from Likoni have given former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko a seven-day ultimatum to apologise for insulting Mombasa leaders or get cursed. The elders on Friday accused Sonko of being disrespectful saying that hurling insults to sitting leaders amounted to insulting Mombasa people. They called out Sonko for abusing Governor Hassan Joho. Led by Fuzi Hamisi Mwarandu, the chair of Ngambi elders, they said that they were going to summon the gods from their shrines if Sonko fails to apologise and appease them. “Sonko is a very small child, he can’t come here and start insulting our leaders,” Mwarandu said. “The elders are not happy, we all feel insulted.” His sentiments were echoed by Seif Manuwari alias Ziraili who accused the Wiper party of sending Sonko to come and disrupt Mombasa. Manuwari said Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka was frustrating the ODM leader Raila Odinga’s efforts of uniting the country under the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition. “Wiper should come out clear and tell us why they sent Sonko to Mombasa,” Manuwari said. He said the party was imposing a leader on the Mombasa people yet he had failed in Nairobi. He threatened that they were going to curse all those who welcomed Sonko to Mombasa if they also fail to come out and apologise. “We call on security apparatus to look into the matter and arrest him for using abusive language against our leaders,” he said. Mwinyi Khamisi asked Sonko to tone down his rhetoric. He said that Mombasa was a peaceful county and as elders, they were not going to allow someone to come in and disrupt the peace. “We don’t want the politics of insults in Mombasa,” Khamisi said. Sonko arrived in Mombasa on Friday with his entourage ready to traverse the county as he seeks to succeed Joho. On April 21, the Kalonzo Musyoka handed Sonko the party ticket clearing him to vie for the Mombasa governor seat. He will be deputised by Kisauni MP Ali Menza Mbogo. Sonko will face off with Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir of ODM, Hassan Omar (UDA), deputy governor William Kingi (PAA) and former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti (VDP).  Edited by Kiilu Damaris