The Lamu government has started free distribution of hybrid seeds targeting at least 18,000 farmers in the region ahead of the planting season. The Sh45 million seeds include 165 tonnes of high-yield PH14 maize, 30 tonnes of green grams, three tonnes of cow peas, white sorghum and hybrid cotton. In the drive, 20,000 coconut seedlings and 10,000 cashew nut seedlings and seeds have been distributed to farmers in the county. Speaking at Muungano grounds in Mpeketoni, Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha said the move is meant to enhance food production efficiency and general security in the county. Two weeks ago, the county government launched 13 fully loaded tractors to promote subsidised agricultural mechanisation services. Twaha said the plan is for every farmer to receive eight kilos of seed and county tractor services at a reduced fee of only Sh1,000 per acre compared to the market price of more than Sh2,500 per acre. “We intend to provide relief to our farmers who have struggled with hard physical labour and poor quality seeds. We are doing everything to boost food production and security,” the governor said. Twaha said the move is also to encourage more people, especially women and youth, to embrace modern farming as a wealth-generating venture  while at the same time creating employment. Lamu Agriculture executive Gichohi Mathenge said the distribution of the seeds had been assigned to community-based committees to ensure openness and accountability. Mathenge said for years, farmers in the county have faced hurdles in accessing reliable farm inputs such as seeds and fertiliser. He said the situation has especially been worse with the rising prices and severely reduced household incomes as a result of the drought and effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mathenge said the seeds were bought from Kenya Seed Company and are well-suited to Lamu’s ecological zone as they mature early, are disease resistant and are high yielding. “Through such initiatives, we are going to open up more than 200,000 acres for food production. This will in turn increase yield and ensure food security. This translates to small-holder farmers having money in their pockets at the end of it all,” he Mathenge. Areas so far covered in the ongoing free seed distribution include Mpeketoni, Baharini, Ocean View, Lake Amu, Hamasi, Witu, Kona Mbaya and Msumarini. Others are Kalafuu, Soroko, Maisha Masha, Lumshi, Jipendeni, Hindi-Mashambani, Roka, Bobo, Kibiboni and surrounding areas of Lamu West subcounty. The distribution is set to be concluded by the end of this month with Faza, Kiunga and surrounding areas of Lamu East subcounty targeted. Edited by A.N