@Yobramos4 Jomvu MP Badi Twalib on Saturday gave staple foods to about 5,000 Muslims and called for peace and unity as Ramadhan entered its final three days. The last three days are considered to be the most blessed for those who perform zakat. Zakat is a form of almsgiving, often collected by the Muslim Ummah and treated in Islam as a religious obligation. It is considered next after prayers in importance. As one of the five pillars of Islam, zakat is a religious duty for all Muslims who meet the criteria of wealth to help the needy. In Jomvu, more than 5,000 residents thronged the MP’s palatial residence in Jomvu and received food estimated to be worth around Sh500,000. “As we head into Idd ul Fitr, I pray that you maintain peace as you celebrate Idd with family, friends and neighbours,” Twalib said. Elderly women, men and youths from all walks of life thronged Twalib’s Jomvu residence all day Saturday as they jostled for food including rice, wheat and maize flour, sugar, cooking oil, among other foods. A near-stampede occurred at about 11am as people crowded for food. Police who were providing security had to intervene to calm the crowd. ODM Mombasa county chairman Mohammed ‘Dee’ Khamid was helping Twalib distribute food. “We have had a great Ramadhan month and the peace and tranquillity we have witnessed through the month should be maintained throughout the year,” Dee said. He said Muslims should lead by example and ensure peace prevails during the remainder of the electioneering period, saying this is the most crucial time. The ODM leaders also took advantage of the crowd to drum up support for ODM and Azimio leader Raila Odinga. “Let us continue being brothers and sisters as we seek votes for Baba. With Baba at the helm, we would not have to throng this place because his policies will ensure everyone has enough in their pockets,” Dee said. Twalib said the Babacare initiative and the Sh6,000 a month for the unemployed will ensure that all people live decent lives. “He will bring dignity to life,” Twalib said. However, the crowds called for more from the two ODM leaders, saying Idd ul Fitr, which signals the end of Ramadhan, is near and they would love to shop for their families. Twalib and Dee said that on Monday they will see how the less fortunate can get extra coin to shop for their families. (Edited by V. Graham)