Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of betraying his brother, Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi, who wanted to run for Nairobi governor. Wanyonyi was asked by ODM to shelve his bid in favour of Jubilee's Polycarp Igathe, and instead seek to retain his Westlands parliamentary seat. The deal was that Raila would be the Azimio flagbearer and, in exchange, Jubilee would 'get' the Nairobi governor's seat. Wanyonyi is Wetang'ula's younger brother. The Bungoma senator claimed Raila 'sacrificed' his brother for Polycarp Igathe. He was addressing Ford Kenya delegates at party offices in Bungoma town on Sunday. Also on Sunday, while campaigning in his Westlands backyard, Wanyonyi said he agreed not to run for governor because his party leader, Raila Odinga, had been cleared to run for president under the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Alliance. Under the agreement, he said, it had been decided ODM takes the presidency while the Jubilee Party of President Uhuru Kenyatta takes the Nairobi governor’s seat. “Because of the arrangement of parties to work together, it comes along with its challenges. Due to those challenges that it was agreed because ODM had been given the presidency, we had to relinquish the Nairobi governor’s seat for Jubilee,” Wanyonyi said. But Wetang'ula claimed otherwise. He said Raila had a history of betraying allies. "This is not the first time Raila Odinga is betraying fellow politicians in the country and we are going to teach him a lesson on August 9," Wetang'ula said. The Ford Kenya leader said the Kenya Kwanza brigade has traversed many parts of the country and Kenyans have accepted to vote for DP Ruto as the next president. He said the burial on Sunday of former head of state Mwai Kibaki ceremony in Nyeri, Mt Kenya, residents showed President Uhuru Kenyatta that they are with Ruto. "For those who were keenly following the speeches in Nyeri during the burial ceremony, Mt  Kenya showed publicly that they are with the DP," he said. Wetang'ula urged Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties to vote for Ford Kenya aspirants so that they can have an easier time to execute their roles as MCAs, MPs, senators and governors. In the Bungoma governor's race,Wetang'ula asked residents to vote for Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, saying Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has failed Bungoma. He said the county needs someone to take it to the next level. "In 2017 we voted for someone who has derailed Bungoma but this round I want you to vote wisely, we want transparent leaders," he said. He said if Kenya Kwanza wins the election, Luhyas will enjoy 30 per cent of the government in which both ANC and Ford Kenya will be given positions of PSs, Cabinet Secretaries and directors. “Lusaka has been our governor here since 2013 and you all saw what he was able to do during his tenure," Wetangu'said. "I want you to vote for him so that we work with him, saying Luhyas will be the shareholders of the next government. (Edited by V. Graham)