Deputy President William Ruto is expected to visit Kirinyaga County on Sunday for a political rally aimed at popularising his presidential bid and that of his UDA party. The deputy president's visit comes a week after he held a similar rally last week on Saturday in Nyeri where he drummed support for UDA candidates and the party. In Nyeri, Ruto was hosted by Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua who was recently unveiled as his running mate. Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru, Joseph Gitari (former MP), Gichimu Githinji, and his Ndia counterpart George Kariuki will be the hosts among others. Others expected include Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Mutahi Kahiga (Governor Nyeri), Alice Wahome (MP Kandara),Kithure Kindiki (Senator Tharaka Nithi), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu) as well as William Kabogo (Ex-Kiambu governor) among others. Political analyst cum Star columnist Albert Kasembeli has said that the DP and his team might use the economic forum meeting to neutralise the influence of Azimio deputy candidate Martha Karua who hails from Gichugu constituency. He said that the DP will also use the opportunity to campaign for incumbent governor Anne Waiguru who is facing a tough contest from woman representative Wangui Ngirichi who fell out with the UDA and DP Ruto last year. “The DP visit to Kirinyaga County is strategic and he is set to hit two birds with one stone, first, he will campaign for Anne Waiguru against Wangui Ngirichi while at the same time campaign against Martha Karua,” he said. The nomination of Martha Karua by Azimio is said to have set the Kenya Kwanza back to the drawing board to strategise on how to counter her influence. A week ago, Martha Karua was treated to a rousing welcome during her tour of Kirinyaga County. This was the first time she was visiting her home county after being unveiled as ODM leader Raila Odinga's running mate. Karua was accompanied by agriculture CS Peter Munya, Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira, Kirinyaga central MP Munene Wambugu, Kieni MP Kanini Kega, among other Jubilee party aspirants who were part of the convoy. The convoy toured Kagumo, Kerugoya, Kimunye, Baricho, Kagio, and Kibingoti among other areas. She said she was ready to serve the nation in the position of a deputy president should Azimio sail through. "I'm grateful for you overwhelming support that you showed to me. I'm positive we shall clinch this seat so that we can continue serving you," she said. Speaking to Star on Wednesday, former Kirinyaga senatorial aspirant on UDA ticket Josiah Murigu confirmed the DP Ruto’s meeting on Sunday. He said that there are plans that the economic forum be held at Ack St Thomas Cathedral Kerugoya. Murigu said that the Kirinyaga people are ready to receive deputy president William Ruto and engage him on region matters. “It’s true, the DP Ruto will attend Kirinyaga economic forum on Sunday and his supporters are awaiting him with great love,” Murigu said. The DP’s visit was also confirmed by former state house digital strategist Denis itumbi through his social media pages. A reliable source has told the Star that the DP Ruto will use the forum to condemn the arrest and intimidation of UDA candidates in the Mount Kenya region. The party officials have accused interior Principal secretary Karanja Kibicho of being behind the scheme. Kirinyaga assembly majority leader James Kamau Murango was recently arrested and taken to Mombasa to face several charges of corruption and forgery allegedly committed during a tendering process at the Port of Mombasa in 2020. He is vying for the Kirinyaga Senate seat on the UDA ticket. “I’m being targeted because of my political inclination. Sadly, I was arrested in Kirinyaga, but I was brought to Mombasa although we have courts in Kerugoya and Nairobi,” he said. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho has refuted claims by a section of Kirinyaga County United Democratic Alliance supporters that he was intimidating them.