The prime suspect in the murder of a man who was shot in Nairobi’s Mirema area has been detained for 14 days pending investigations. Dennis Karani was detained by Nairobi senior resident magistrate Caroline Muthoni after she ruled that the application by police to detain him was merited. In a miscellaneous application in court, officer Kapario Lekakeny said Karani was the driver of the vehicle that was used at the murder scene of Samwel Mugo Muvota. The officer told the court he needed 14 days to enable him complete investigations as the alleged offence occurred on May 16 at Mirema in Kasarani and the suspect surrendered himself to the DCI Headquarters on May 23. The DCI announced Karani as the key suspect on May 20 on social media. The court heard that the suspect, allegedly with the deceased and others, operated an elaborate drugging syndicate in the country and the murder of Muvota is suspected to be attributed to a deal gone sour. He said Karani with others not before court are believed to have planned the execution of Muvota, who was their accomplice. “The investigators are still analysing the numerous numbers used by Karani to ascertain whether he is linked with the murder," he said. Karani is alleged to have stolen a firearm from a police officer in Mombasa after drugging him. The firearm is yet to be recovered. The suspect demonstrated to be flight risk for failing to present himself immediately to the police even after learning that he was wanted by the police through DCI Facebook wall on May 20, the officer said. Although he surrendered to the police, he failed to produce his mobile phone which is believed to possess vital information that would assist the investigators. Lekakeny said he required time to travel to Nakuru and Mombasa to collect more evidence. The officer said Karani has no fixed aboard, and is believed to reside in Kiambu, Nakuru and Mombasa. He added that police require time to identify his places of abode to recover the firearm and other dangerous weapons suspected to be in one of the houses. The said he would rely on the suspect to assist in identifying places of his board where search would be conducted in view of making recoveries and preparation of inventory, which the suspect would be required to countersign. "I implore the court to take notice of the clip going viral on social media where one man was captured by CCTV footage,"he told court. "For clearance of doubt, the crime was committed by more than two people as it is seen that the person who commuted the murder fled to the car that was parked. On his part, the suspect told court that he had no objection to the investigations and was ready. The case will be mentioned on June 8.  (edited by Amol Awuor)