The national men’s deaf handball team finished sixth at the 24th Summer Deaflympics at Caxias Do Sul in Brazil. Coach Peter Mwathi said finishing was a huge achievement for the debutants. In their last ranking game, Kenya succumbed 26-18 to Denmark. “This is a great achievement considering that the teams we were playing against did not just wake up and started playing handball. They have good techniques, which show that they have been playing handball since they were young,” said Mwathi. “We played a very strong side and scoring 18 times against Denmark is an achievement. Denmark is a handball nation. It is their second-most popular sport after football.” Coach called for early preparations before major tournaments. “When coaching deaf players, you need a lot of time with them. For example, f you have a one-month camp for the hearing players, you will need at least three months with the deaf. Nevertheless, I’m happy with the performance,” he added. At the same time, women’s deaf handball team assistant coach Caroline Kusa says deaf handballers should be incorporated into teams playing in the national women's league to help them get exposure now that Kenya does not have a league for the deaf. The team reached the semi-finals of the competition before succumbing 31-8 to defending champions. The team also lost 18-12 to Denmark in the first round. Kenya will play Brazil in the third-place play-off. They won just one game during the competition, thrashing Argentina 35-3 to qualify for the semis. Kusa said she was impressed by how the girls played, adding that with more exposure, they will be a force to reckon with. “They need to remain active to be more skillful and exposed. That is why we need to have them play in the national league for the hearing players,” she said. She blamed the loss in the semi-finals to lack of endurance and concentration. “I’m impressed by the way the team performed on debut. They have huge potential but only if they are engaged in regular handball,” she said.