Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has welcomed the appointment of Rigathi Gachagua as Deputy President William Ruto's running mate. Mudavadi said the move will strengthen the team in readiness to win the August 9 polls. "Our ship has now taken off with Ruto as our captain and we want a win in round one," Mudavadi said. He said the Kenya Kwanza Alliance team had planned itself early enough and the appointment of Rigathi was a unanimous decision. He spoke at a thanks giving prayer meeting for United Democratic Alliance nominees in Eldoret, on Sunday. "Those on the other side thought we would quarrel but we are determined to ensure Kenya comes first." He said Kenya Kwanza was now on the highway to victory on August 9. "We want both Odinga and President Kenyatta to retire peacefully and go home. Kenyans do not want a leader who will be controlled by use of remote control," Mudavadi said. He urged residents of the region to come out in large numbers on election day so as to ensure Ruto's win will be with huge numbers. Mudavadi asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to ensure the polls will be free and fair. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang who was also present welcomed the appointment of Gachagua and also praised Professor Kithure Kindiki for backing the Kenya Kwanza team. He said Kindiki would play a leading role in government if DP will be elected president. Sang thanked Mudavadi for standing with DP Ruto at his hour of need. "When time comes we will also stand with you our brother Mudavadi," Sang said. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said all those who were eyeing the running mate position had agreed leading to the decision to pick Rigathi Gachagua as Ruto's running mate. He said Gachagua had strengthened the possibility of Ruto's win on August 9. Earlier on, the prayer meeting turned into celebrations after Ruto announced Gachagua as his running mate The UDA nominees and officials led by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and senator for Kericho Aaron Cheruiyot joined the crowd in song and dance. "We are happy that the DP had finally named his running mate and we will stand with Kenya Kwanza all the way to victory," Mandago said. The governor and Cheruiyot said they fully supported the decision by the DP which they termed as wise. Mandago said Rigathi deserved to deputise Ruto noting that the Mathira MP had proved to be a committed member of the Kenya Kwanza. "He has been steadfast and committed to the bottom up economic policies and proved to be a national leader."