Tanzanian truck drivers transporting liquid petroleum gas into Kenya have caused a massive traffic at Namanga border to protest alleged excess taxes. The drivers said Kajiado county is charging Sh2,000 on top of the increased taxes paid to the Kenya Revenue Authority a remark that was disputed by the county. Kajiado finance County Executive Committee Member Michael Semera said the taxation is being done within the law. “All those charges are published in our finance bill. We only charge Sh2,000 for the loaded LPG trucks and not when they are returning to their country," he told the Star. "As for the Point Of Sale machines which are used for receipting, we buy their rolls from Tanzania." Transporter Ahmed Suleiman said it is only the Kajiado county government that charges Sh2000 as taxes for every truck entering Kenya. “Another problem we have realised is that the workers of the county government are issuing us with Tanzania Revenue Authority tickets instead of the county,” Suleiman said. Suleiman says the Mpesa numbers they are told to deposit what they are charged belong to individuals. He said taxes for LPG trucks coming into Kenya was recently raised from Sh300,000 by another Sh180,000. The Star obtained the transaction receipt from the Kajiado county government and the Sh2,000 Mpesa transaction sent to  an individual Lenkesia Lesinko. Kajiado Central Subcounty Police Commander Daudi Lornyokwe confirmed that the jam is causing trouble at the border town. “There is a big problem there at the border and KRA officials should moderate the situation which is raising temperatures every day,” said the police boss. There were more than 200 trucks at the parking yard awaiting to be cleared before proceeding to Nairobi on Friday morning. The county government released 40 LPG trucks as more than 100 drivers with gas trucks are still stranded. Idi Mustafa, another Tanzanian truck driver who said he has spent three days at the border, claimed it is only Kajiado county that is charging cess collection money in the country. “We go as far as Mombasa, Nakuru and Eldoret and those other counties do not charge us any money,” Mustafa said.