Kirinyaga county assembly majority leader Kamau Murango has been cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to vie for the Senate seat. The Monday clearance comes two weeks after his arraignment in a Mombasa court for alleged forgery of Sh8.8 million in a Kenya Ports Authority tender. Murango denied the charges. He said it was a sigh of relief and the start of his meteoric rise in politics. The UDA aspirant is currently serving as a first time MCA for Kerugoya ward. Murango said his opponents have been behind his misery to frustrate his bid. He said the recent arrests, destruction of his bill boards are proof of evil hands at work. “Those who put stumbling blocks on my way so that I can not vie are in or a rude shock because I have proved to the IEBC that I am suitable candidate," Murango said. "I have presented the required documents and I’m glad that the clearance process is clean without any political malice. “We look forward to having a very successful campaign and electioneering period." Murango said it was unfortunate for his competitors to destroy his campaign materials hoping that it would dampen his spirit. “If destroying my billboards gives you satisfaction, then I don’t mind telling you where I have erected them for you to destroy them," Murango said. "One thing I’m certain of is the unrelenting support of the people and even if they destroy my billboard I shall present myself to market my agenda.” The MCA urged IEBC to oversee proper streamlining of the campaign schedules to ensure that candidates conduct campaigns seamlessly to avert clashes among candidates or supporters. Murango is set to face eight others in the senate race. By Monday evening five candidates had already been given the green light. Florence Wangui, who is vying under the Party for Peace and Democracy expressed her excitement after getting the nod to vie. She intends to intensify her campaigns in the run up to the elections to market her policies to the electorate. Wangui urged her competitors to maintain peace, saying elections is not a matter of life and death Antony Karimi, who is running on an independent ticket was also cleared to vie. He said he looks forward to a successful campaign season and expressed optimism that he will win. Jane Gitonga, the county elections manager said IEBC will continue conducting the verification and clearance exercise as provided by the law. She asked all aspirants to provide the necessary documents while going for clearance. She also compelled aspirants to remain calm despite the minor technical hitches experienced by the IEBC verification systems. “Technology is just a facilitator of the exercise but our goal is clearance so aspirants should not panic because of the minor hitches. We want to assure them that nothing will go wrong,” she said.  (Edited by Tabnacha O)