Eldas MP Adan Keynan has received a major boost for his reelection campaign after professionals from his constituency endorsed him. The Jubilee coalition joint parliament group secretary is also deputy chairman of the Azimio coalition. He hopes to retain his seat for the fifth time. The grand endorsement on Sunday culminated in him also getting the backing from the major subclans in the constituency. The Jibrael community sultanate, council of elders of the Fardanow, Geylible, Idiris, Dumal, Raqay communities together with religious leaders and women leaders endorsed Keynan's candidature. Ibrahim Mohamed, who read the statement, said Keynan had been tried and tested and they could not gamble with leadership. In terms of clan matrix and influence in Northeastern politics, the professionals have a say. Apart from earning a lot of respect from the electorate, they also come from different clans and subclans, where they give direction on the side of coalition or candidate to vote for. Eldas is inhabited by the Degodia subclan, with the Jibrael sub clan being dominant. Keynan, who will contest on a Jubilee ticket, is from the Mohamed subclan. The professionals said they will embark on vigorous campaigns to make sure Keynan clinches the seat. "We want to make it very clear from the onset that our decision to back Keynan’s bid to retain his seat was based purely on his performance. "We were not coerced into supporting him. We are people who command respect from our community and so we could not stoop that low,” they said. Mohamed said the professionals chose to endorse Keynan after evaluating his commitment to education, healthcare, infrastructure and peace. He said Keynan also represents the aspirations of the people in the national political space. “We hereby endorse Kenyan for a further term of five years as a Eldas MP. We also unequivocally endorse Raila Odinga as the Azimio One Kenya alliance presidential candidate in the August general election,” Mohamed said. He said they will also develop a strategic plan to guide the development blue print for Eldas constituency over the 2022-2023 period as well as hold an annual professionals convention. Keynan said he is humbled by the support from the professionals and promised to continue working closely with them to develop the constituency. “There are days when I lack words, today is one of them. Getting the backing of all these great minds, people who are very much respected in the society, is no mean task. "It means there is something I am doing right, which has earned your respect and support. I promise not to betray your trust and the support that you have accorded me,” he said. Keynan said he is proud of the many projects he had initiated and promised to continue serving residents with devotion in the next phase of his leadership. “As we strive with the same tenacity and clarity to renew the same spirit of unity, let's feel motivated to cultivate fertile ground for negotiations. "Let's engage different stakeholders on pertinent issues of economic growth and stability for our common good," he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)