Scores of families whose land was acquired for the Lamu county headquarters and county assembly in Mokowe are yet to be compensated  10 years later. A total of 54 families are demanding their payout for their land which was sourced for the construction of the Sh284 million county headquarters, the Sh214 million county assembly building, county lands offices among other premises of the county and national governments. Several national government offices including that of the Lamu county commissioner and the registrar of persons are also on the same land. Speaking on Monday, the aggrieved families accused the county government of politicising the process hence the complications that have seen their compensation stall for 10 years now. In 2018, National Land Commission officials led by former boss Muhammad Swazuri carried out a verification exercise of the affected persons and approved a list of the 54 individuals for immediate compensation. The commission approved both monetary compensation and alternative land compensation for the 54 people and also directed the county government to immediately effect compensation. Ten years down the line, nothing has materialised. One of those aggrieved Said Salim said of the 54 verified for payout, over 10 have since died before receiving the compensation for their land. The rest according to Salim are living in abject poverty and struggles since they have no alternative lands to depend on. “I know of at least 12 people who have died already and won't to see their compensation if it ever happens, that is. They told us we would be paid before the end of that year but this is now 2022 and nothing seems to be happening,” he said. The affected persons have absolved the NLC of any blame and instead are accusing the county government of refusing to pay them. “The NLC came and verified our names, we saw the list and we know it can’t be their fault because it’s not them who need to pay us. The county government of Lamu needs to look into this matter and settle us after all they are already enjoying the comfort of their offices on our lands,” Salim said. Mohamed Shali, another affected person called on Governor Fahim Twaha to set aside politics and speedily have the issue looked into. He said despite the fact that the land was acquired long before Twaha became governor, it is still his job to ensure any processes that were started back then are successfully brought to completion to facilitate their compensation. He said their efforts to follow up on the matter with the relevant offices over the years haven’t borne any fruit. In October 2020, Lamu MCAs unanimously passed a motion compelling the county lands department to compensate the 54 people. However, despite this directive by the county assembly, not much progress was made after that. “We have gone to all relevant offices but no one seems willing to help. Even after the petition by the county assembly sailed through, we have never seen justice. It’s been 10 years and no solution in sight,” Amina Ahmed said. They have called on the county government to break the silence and provide a way forward on the matter. “This is an issue that started in the previous administration before Twaha became governor but that doesn’t mean he can’t see it through. Let him know we are counting on him for a good end to this where we get our dues,” Omar Sharif said. They say the continued silence was intentional and meant to deny them justice. Efforts to reach the Lamu county lands executive Ahmed Hemed for comment were futile as his phone went unanswered.   -Edited by SKanyara