Presidential aspirants Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka are engaged in crunch talks that could see them reunite by May 30. It has emerged that, despite Kalonzo declaring his presidential bid and unveiling his running mate on Monday, he could shelve his ambition and support Raila should the negotiations succeed. Tellingly, Wiper has not moved to court to disengage from Azimio as they had earlier threatened. Kalonzo's troops have also refrained from attacking Raila, in what some insiders said could be instructions from the party ranks. The two leaders are using the 12-window before the IEBC publishes the final list of party nominees ahead of clearance to negotiate and possibly strike a deal to reunite ahead of August 9. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi are part of the crucial talks that only include the top leaders. “All is not lost. There is that window between now and May 30. They (Raila and Kalonzo) are still negotiating,” Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr, a close ally of Kalonzo, said. Uhuru and Raila are persuading Kalonzo to accept the choice of Martha Karua as the coalition’s presidential running mate and take chief minister position. During the unveiling of Karua on Monday, Raila said Kalonzo will be chief minister in his government should he defeat Deputy President William Ruto in the presidential election. However, while Kalonzo is said to have softened his stance on Raila’s choice of Karua, he demanded amendment of the Azimio Coalition agreement to capture the chief minister post in the document. “What our leader is being promised is hot air. It is not captured anywhere. How can we trust that?” Mutula said. The Star established that, while last minute meetings between the leaders held on Sunday and Monday morning failed to prevail on Kalonzo to shelve his declaration, they agreed to "continue negotiating and comparing notes.” While unveiling Andrew Sunkuli as his running mate in Karen on Monday, Kalonzo hinted at the ongoing talks that could see him team up with Raila. “My opinion is that Oka continues as originally established and Azimio as originally established and we move on, compare notes,” he said. He said Raila went to his home to persuade him to accept his choice but they did not agree. Matungulu MP Stephen Mule and his Kitui Central counterpart Makali Mulu said Kalonzo had informed them of the negotiations. “They have been talking and will continue talking. I don’t know whether the talks mean they will be working together or not…they know better,” Mulu said. “What he (Kalonzo) said (about comparing notes) is exactly what he told us. That they will still continue engaging." “As far as we are concerned, they agreed to discuss any future engagement and after two weeks, they agreed to compare notes. That is what my leader said,” Mule said. In yet another indication the leaders could work together again, Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, an ally of the Wiper boss, said his party has not bolted out of Azimio. “The Wiper party is still in Azimio Coalition Party. It cannot withdraw as of now, the current situation notwithstanding. Everything will be ironed out amicably. Let’s focus on August 9 poll,” he tweeted on Tuesday. Kalonzo, considered the de facto Ukambani political leader, had on Monday announced pulling out of the coalition after he missed out on Raila’s running mate slot. His departure, and subsequent declaration that he would run for president, is blow to Raila who has been banking on the Kamba vote bloc in the State House race against Ruto. Karua was ranked ahead of Kalonzo by the panel of eminent persons that interviewed the candidates for running mate. But Kalonzo, who deputised Raila in 2013 and 2017 presidential elections, protested the interview and the ranking.  (edited by Amol Awuor)