George Gitau, an aspirant for the Kikuyu MP seat in Kiambu county, has asked his competitors not to destroy his campaign posters. Gitau, who is seeking the seat under the Chama Cha Kazi ticket, also appealed to residents to reject any payments from other politicians to tear down posters. He spoke at his home in Kerwa village in Sigona ward on Saturday when he hosted residents. “There are people who are tearing my posters, including billboards. This kind of politics has been overtaken by time. Posters and fliers help us communicate with the electorate," Gitau said. “As you came to my home, you saw my competitor’s posters. I cannot destroy someone’s posters." The aspirant said his posters have been destroyed in Kikuyu town, Thogoto and Kinoo. Gitau's supporter Simon Chege asked the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to have laws that will punish aspirants who destroys their competitors' campaign materials. “We need to be protected by the law. These materials are important for mobilisation and very expensive to make," Chege said. The Kikuyu Council of Elders has urged residents to pray for peace before, during after highly the August 9 elections. Kiambu county KCE vice chairman Shante Munyua said the constituency is a metropolitan that hosts people from different tribes, religion and races. “We do not want to see bloodshed, deaths, chaos and displacement of people. We want peace since we need each other after the election,” Munyua said. Gitau said people should not resist change or accept to be misled by politicians. He said the incumbent, Kimani Ichung'wa, has neglected the residents and has been moving around the country with Deputy President William Ruto since he was elected. Apart from Gitau  others seeking the seat include the incumbent Ichung’wa of UDA  and Jubilee's Owen Ndung’u among other aspirants. Gitau warns his competitors to expect defeat, saying he is prepared to win by a landslide. Munyua urged locals not to consider parties but the personalities contesting for the seat. "If we go with the two horse narrative, where will Gitau be? Let us be focused on an individual and his vision for the constituency” Munyua said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)