Bandari head coach Anthony Kimani has urged his charges to keep their sights on the prize after a splendid performance powered them past Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Sunday. Harambee Stars point man Abdalla Hassan fired the visitors into the lead in the 35th minute before centre-back Brian Odera doubled the advantage seven minutes later. Kimani extolled his charges for putting up a gallant fight away from home while pointing out that they had, indeed, rediscovered their confidence. “It was a good performance by both sides and I'm glad we emerged the better side,” Kimani said. “The outcome attests to the miles we have attained in restoring the team's confidence and, hopefully, we shall be able to keep the flame burning in our two remaining matches.” “As I said earlier, we are approaching each of our opponents cautiously. As much as we are aware we are within the title bracket, we shouldn't allow that to get into our heads and distract us from our main objective, which is to collect maximum points from our subsequent matches.” “It's unfortunate we twice conceded easily due to a lapse in concentration. Our defence should have done better. But generally, we put in a good performance and what we should work on in the future is making use of the chances we create,” Kimani said. As the dockers' gaffer enumerated his blessings, his opposite number William Muluya rued a bad day in office. “We ought to have the necessary composure in front of goal and we'll be good to go. We live to fight another day,” Muluya said. The win leaves the coastal lads well within the title bracket with 56 points, six within leaders Kakamega Homeboyz and a point behind second-placed Tusker. The brewers squandered a perfect opportunity at home to close in on Homeboyz after they came from behind to secure a crucial point against visiting Nzoia Sugar at Ruaraka Grounds in yet another scintillating encounter of the day. Tanzanian forward Ibrahim Joshua was the toast for the Ruaraka-based side, as he notched up a brace to salvage them from a looming heartbreak. Elsewhere, Vihiga Bullets fought tooth and nail to hold Ulinzi Stars to a barren draw at Bukhungu Stadium. The outcome leaves the newbies dangling precariously on the cusp of relegation given they remain third from the bottom with 27 points. Ulinzi are 12th with 36 points.