A detective attached to DCI’s Anti Human Trafficking and Child Protection Unit, on Tuesday evening was awarded for his role in child protection in Manhattan, New York City. Detective Lawrence Okoth received the award at a gala organized by the International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children which was held at Cipriani 42nd Street in NYC. The Everyday Hero Award was awarded to three officers, including Detective Okoth, an officer from India and another from Guatemala. Okoth is a certified digital forensic investigator specializing in smoking out paedophiles and who for the last three years has put away suspects earning him international recognition. " In one outstanding case, the detective who is a Computer Science graduate from Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, assisted by other officers from the Child Protection unit arrested a 71-year-old paedophile after he shared disturbing tapes online, depicting child sexual abuse," DCI said in a statement. The discovery led to a manhunt of the elderly man, who was a telecommunications pensioner in Germany and who had sexually abused two boys aged 11 and 13 in Ukunda, Kwale County. The elderly fled to Nyalenda in Kisumu when he realized that detectives were on his trail. While rescuing the two victims, Okoth and his team learnt that the suspect has drugged the boys using a stupefying drug. "While in Kisumu, the pensioner continued luring young boys between the ages of 11 and 13 and defiling them until he was arrested in Nairobi on May 2020," DCI added. He was accompanied by a boy he had lured. Okoth's team traced the suspect's background and managed to obtain his past criminal records. DCI reported that the elderly had spent five years on drug-related charges,  in various jails in South Korea. "Upon his release from prison in South Korea, in 2018, he moved to the Kenyan South coast, where he set up base in Ukunda and began preying on young boys," the Directorate said. They reported that the suspect is held at the Industrial Area prison as his trial continues. Okoth opposed the suspect's demands to be repatriated to Germany to face the charges there. The CEO of the ICMEC Bob Cunningham praised Detective Okoth for being a frontline defender of children’s rights. In his acceptance remarks, Okoth acknowledged the immense support he received from the ICMEC in terms of training aiding his work. Okoth also acknowledged the DCI Director George Kinoti, for his visionary leadership and stewardship. Others who received awards on Tuesday included US Senator Ron Wyden. The Oregon senator has been in the US Congress for the past 26 years and has sponsored hundreds of bills in support of child protection. The ICMEC  has for the past 20 years worked with over 120 countries worldwide to protect children from exploitation through empowering law enforcement agencies with tools and training them. So far, over 1, 600 missing children have been rescued in the last five months. In attendance was  DCI’s Chief of Corporate Communications, Public Affairs and  ICT Inspector Mike Mugo.