Kenya Police coach Patrick Mugambi is not happy with the performance of his charges despite beating USIU-A Mashujaa 1-0 in the Kenya Hockey Union men's Premier League match at the City Park Stadium. Mugambi revealed that his players were sluggish at the start and were lucky to grind the all-important win courtesy of Titus Kimutai's 47th-minute goal. "We were outplayed in the first quarter but I think fatigue played a role in that in as much I don't like giving excuses. Our ball movement needs to improve as we try to play with urgency," he observed. The Gold Cup champions missed the services of accomplished midfielder Willis Okeyo who returned to Germany for a fifth time last Friday. The midfield dynamo will be away for one and a half months with Vincent Odindo earmarked as his replacement. "Okeyo's absence is a big blow for us considering his role in the midfield. Today (Sunday), we were overrun in the midfield. However, going forward, I am worried because Odindo, who has been out with an injury is expected back in our next assignment." Forward Govan Mbeki made a comeback from injury and provided the assist in another boost for the law enforcers who were depleted in the attack. Mbeki was sidelined during the Gold Cup tournament after struggling with a knee injury with Oliver Echenje preferred. Mashujaa captain Jamleck Macharia rued wasted chances for their loss, citing a lack of composure from the strikers. Numerous chances went begging for the students with Brian Kiplimo, James Muthii and Brian Kipkorir as the main culprits. A visibly disgusted Macharia said: "We could not take our chances and we got punished. We dictated play but lost spark in the defence. They (Police) scored from nothing. All is not lost though because there's room for improvement." In the women's Premier League, Lakers drew 0-0 with Sailors while Kisumu-based Lakers managed a 1-0 over Wolverines on Saturday. Meanwhile, a 25th-minute goal from Paul Barasa was all that the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology JKUAT needed to defeat Nakuru in the men's Super League. In the women's Super League, Kenyatta University beat newbies Nairobi Chapel 3-0 courtesy of Monica Kitui's hat-trick. She scored in the 15th, 38th, and 42nd minutes.