Thirty five MCA aspirants who were dissatisfied with UDA nominations in Mombasa have walked out of the party, to vie as independent candidates. On Thursday, the MCAs joined Mohammed Amir, a senator aspirant who also walked out. Amir was also displeased with the primaries. “The nominations were unfair and we were denied our rights. There were cases of theft of ballot boxes and some polling stations were opened earlier than the others,” he said. Amir however said they still subscribe to the bottom-up economic approach that is being championed by UDA. “We still support it because we believe it will help our people. We trusted the party but were disappointed. The electorate has urged us to march forward,” he said. The aspirants said they are open to working with anyone who has the interests of the people at heart. “We have no preferred presidential or governor candidate,” Amir said. Aziz Mbuzi, the former chairperson of Mombasa MCA aspirants said their former party has shown a high degree of arrogance and selfishness, even after the bungled nominations. “This was a mockery of fairness. We were a little more patient with the party but they were not concerned,” the  MCA aspirant said. Most of those who were given the UDA tickets, Mbuzi said,  are beginners and have no public support. The chairperson was confident the independent candidates will win. Joyce Awuor, an aspiring Shanzu MCA urged the people to elect good leaders and consider gender representation. Ibrahim Dube who is now seeking to represent the Tononoka ward said the independent MCA aspirants had been approached by an independent presidential candidate who is asking for their support. He appealed to the people to choose leaders and not allow political parties to do so. Amir asked the public to ignore calls by some parties to elect leaders who are in the specific parties only, terming it as backwardness. “Don't listen to these calls for six-piece voting. Some of the leaders who were chosen purely because of a party can't make independent choices. They are always controlled,” Amir said. He decried the sorry state of Mombasa, which he blamed on poor leadership. "The city is dirty and has a poor drainage system. Let's use our votes well to bring change,” the aspirant said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris