Three students, who were selected to join Maseno School in Kisumu reported empty handed but with hope of securing their slots. Daniel Mulongo and Paul Odhiambo scored 386 marks and 398 marks respectively in KCPE exam. Mulongo, 13, who sat his exam at Mwihoko Primary School in Kiambu county reported to school on Wednesday with an empty box. Despite lack of school fees, Mulongo accompanied by his mother Fatima Musuya traveled from Githurai 45 hoping to fulfil his quest for education. Their transport money from Kiambu to Kisumu was paid by Mulongo’s primary school teacher Melen Moses. Musuya, a mother of three, has appealed to well-wishers to help pay for her son's school fees. Mulongo, who aspires to become a journalist said his father is unemployed and struggles to feed the family. Odhiambo, 15, reported to the school without bedding, uniforms and other required materials. He reported on Saturday with a dictionary, kamusi, atlas, calculator and mathematical set. He sat his KCPE exam at Rang’ala Boys Primary School in Siaya. Odhiambo said he decided to report to school with hopes of getting help. He said his father and mother are peasant farmers. “It is the teachers at Maseno who gave me school uniform. I am appealing to well wishers to help me. I don’t have shoes and bedding,” Odhiambo said. He said the Kenya Education Fund has pledged to pay for his fees. In another case, Mwakai Johnson Ngolo, 14, from Kilifi also reported to school without fees and required materials. But Mwakai got a reprieve after the Maseno Old Boys Association chaired by Walter Odhiambo paid his school fees for two years. They paid Sh168,300. The former pupil at Mwareni Primary School scored 396 marks. The association is registered and well structured to give back to society. Mwakai was brought to school by his teacher Cecilia Kahozi who played a crucial role to ensure the boy got help. He aspires to become a doctor. Mwakai pledged to work hard to excel in his studies and help other less fortunate learners in future. “Based on the status at home I was very worried that I could not join school. I thank the association for the overwhelming support,” he said. Mwakai, the second born in a family of five called on the government to walk with him through his education. Maseno School chief principal Peter Owino said they have experienced many students reporting to school without anything. He said most of them have no uniform and  school fees. “Mulongo only had a metal box and wore his primary school uniform. But we immediately sought for some of the requirements and admitted him,” Owino said. “Our policy in Maseno School is that when a child reports to school on day one the best thing we can do is to facilitate his admission, give him a chance to prove himself and go on in life.” Owino said they handle issues such as school fees later. He said Mulongo’s parents called him and advised them to bring the child to school. “We appreciate the head teacher for the good gesture to this bright child who was in a public school and worked very well,” Owino said. (Edited by Tabnacha O)