Private institutions have been urged to support bright but needy students through their secondary school education. Education CS George Magoha said there are many vulnerable children in the informal settlements, who require education support because their parents cannot afford it. “Private institutions should visit schools in the informal areas and see the many children who are unable to attend classes,” he said. Magoha spoke on Thursday during the launch of Zamara Group’s financial literacy programme targeting young people in Malindi. He said the state has data for all the schools, which is easily available for private institutions that would want to support needy students. “Private institutions can get data of most vulnerable children from areas like Bangladesh in Jomvu or Embakasi, Mkuru Kwa Njenga, and Mji wa Huruma in Nairobi. “You might face criticism from the public for playing public relations with the community, but the fact is you will be helping the needy and the law allows you to do your Corporate Social Responsibility where it will bring impact," the CS said. The financial literacy programme targets to reach more than 50,000 young Kenyans annually aged between seven to 18. There will be a beginners programme that will be taught online. It will cover the basics of money, budgeting, saving, investing and debt. The programme was launched during the ninth annual Retirement Benefits Authority conference at the Diamond Dream of Africa in Malindi in the presence of Zamara Group CEO Sundeep Raichura. This year the theme for the conference was “Mapping the Best Retirement.” Raichura said research suggests that money habits get instilled from as early as seven years. He said there is need for children get an education on finance at an early age, to shape their attitudes towards money during their formative years. “Financial literacy helps provide the opportunity for young people to have a brighter and more prosperous future. Therefore, there is a need to empower them from an early age,” the CEO said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)