Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has told Mt Kenya voters not to elect Deputy President William Ruto just because President Uhuru Kenyatta had promised to support him. During the 2013 and 2017 elections, Uhuru said he would run the country for two terms and then support Ruto for two terms. The two fell out, and the promise was broken. Some politicians and voters from the region have been supporting Ruto based on the promise, saying they have to pay the political debt owed to Ruto. Karua said on Tuesday that making promises and later breaking them is common among voters and politicians and "it is not a big deal". “You cannot vote for somebody simply because he was promised [leadership] or because he is unhappy. That is not reason enough to support somebody,” she said. Karua said in 2013, voters promised they would vote her in as president, but the promise was not fulfilled. “As voters, you always make promises to us politicians which you do not fulfil. In 2013, you promised to vote for me, but you did not keep that promise,” she told her supporters. She said failing to fulfil promises is not the end of the world and advised Ruto to wait for next time. Karua said Ruto's time will come if God has such plans for him. She also said an elderly person can be more visionary than a younger one. Karua said former President Mwai Kibaki took over the leadership mantle at an advanced age but performed exemplary well. She said Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga has a clean record and his journey to State House will be smooth if Mt Kenya residents support him. Karua said voting for a presidential candidate without careful thought may see voters elect people who will end up looting public resources and fail to fulfil promises they make to Kenyans. She said Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Coalition has many parties which gives voters a wide range of leaders to choose from. “Scrutinise all those who are contesting and vote for the best candidates irrespective of their political party,” Karua said. She said services are delivered by individuals, not parties. "You can vote for a good leader without necessarily joining their party. We should look for patriotic people who will move our country to the next level so that every Kenyan is proud of his or her country,” Karua said. She said Raila’s social protection pledge to the less fortunate is achievable if all corruption loopholes are sealed. The Narc Kenya leader said more than Sh800 billion is stolen annually and the social protection programme only requires less than Sh150 billion. The government, she said, cannot equip hospitals with drugs or fund education if money continues to be looted. Karua spoke during a stakeholders’ political meeting held at StepWing resort in Nyeri town. She urged politicians to desist from hurling insults at their opponents. Karua said Azimio's 10-point manifesto guarantees affordable healthcare through BabaCare. She said the programme will enable the needy to access affordable healthcare and social protection where the less fortunate will be getting Sh6,000 per family per month. Present were Nyeri senatorial candidate Kabando wa Kabando (Narc-K), former Trade minister Mukhisa Kituyi and Kirinyaga governor aspirant Muriithi Kagai. Others were Nyeri woman representative aspirant Njeri Njoori (Jubilee), Mathira parliamentary aspirant Waruru Gikandi (Narc-K), Albert Gakuru of presidential delivery unit and Tetu MP aspirant Githigaro Wachira (Jubilee). Edited by A.N