Kenya Simbas head coach Paul  Odera said the side have to improve on their defence after losing 66-33 to Griffon in their Currie Cup First Division action at the Pelatona Stadium in Welkom, South Africa over the weekend. Odera saw his charges trail 33-7 at the interval before scoring four tries in a competitive second-half performance to put respectability on the scoreline. The former skipper, while lauding his charges for a strong second-half performance, said the defence needs a lot of work. "Our defence is still a challenge. It is not a lack of bravery or trying, but our tackle technique needs to improve. Our error rate also needs to come down as good teams punish every error,” added Odera. This was Simbas' third straight defeat after losses to Valke (51-14) and Zimbabwe (22-21). "We are showing great resolve and fighting spirit in all games. We came from 33-7 down at halftime to lose 66-33…  a great comeback. These boys don’t give up until the final whistle,” noted Odera The former Kenya under 20 and Strathmore Leos coach made 12 changes mainly due to injuries but said the side had learnt valuable lessons. These lessons, he said, will be crucial as they head for a Rugby World Cup qualifier against Uganda in France in July. "There are vital lessons the squad is picking and by the time the qualifiers come in France, I think the boys are going to be well prepared,” said Odera. Scrumhalf Samuel Asati landed a brace with full-back Andrew Matoka, lock Thomas Okeyo and replacement scrum-half Brian Wahinya all touching down once as fly-half Geoffrey Ominde kicked over four conversions. The Simbas are currently placed ninth in the ten-team competition with one point from their three outings. They next play Border Bulldogs next Saturday at the Old Selbornians Stadium in East London. The Simbas are using the Currie Cup as preparation for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers. Simbas head to France in late June for an African qualification tournament where they will be battling for the one automatic slot against the likes of Namibia, Zimbabwe, Senegal, Uganda, Algeria, Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast also involved. The losing finalist in the qualifier will go into repechage against teams from the other regions next year.