AFC Leopards could have clinched the Kenyan Premier League title this season had the expelled Football Kenya Federation not botched up their lofty plans, club chairman Dan Shikanda has lamented. Shikanda said a contentious decision made last year by the ousted Nick Mwendwa-led administration compromised the quality of the squad, effectively scuttling their desire to end their title 20-year title drought. FKF decided to pull the plug on the club's revenue streaming from the lush five-year Sh1.2 billion BetKing sponsorship deal after they snubbed a crucial league fixture. “As the league wore on, FFK stopped disbursing the monthly sponsorship funds meant for us and that compromised the quality of the squad given so many of our players left in protest over unpaid salaries,” Shikanda said. Leopards found themselves in hot soup after failing to honour their Mashemeji derby fixture against arch-rivals Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium as both sides protested a delay in settling their FKF Cup prize money after the June 5 final won by Gor. The teams instead decided to stage a friendly encounter at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi, the move attracting the full wrath of the defunct office who slapped Leopards and Gor with hefty Sh6m and Sh4m fines respectively. “FKF decided to recover the fines by deducting sponsorship funds set aside for the two sides, which meant we both had to go for months without adequate finances.” The federation went ahead to transfer Sh1,324,500 to Gor's bank account while retaining Sh1,324,500 for the partial settlement of the fine. Leopards, on the other hand, would receive Sh1,124,500 as Sh1,524,500 was retained for the partial settlement of their fine. Shikanda extolled his team for shaking off colossal adversities that cast a shadow over their performance throughout the season. Leopards are currently seventh on the log with 47 points. “It's a surprise that we have managed to survive the chop after turning to eight youth team players to help us out following the departure of our star players at the end of the preceding season,” Shikanda said. “We are definitely working round the clock to identify a couple of brilliant players who will boost our chances of clinching the title next season.” Shikanda said the offer he had made to players to reward each of them with a house if they win the title still remains. “All I want is to see the silverware brought home and, yes, each of the squad members will receive a house as long as I'm still in office,” Shikanda said while confirming earlier reports that quoted him saying club elections will be held on June 26. “The club election is on and shall be on June 26 and yes, I will defend my seat because we have a lot of things we intend to achieve.” Shikanda said the club had nothing tangible to display since its inception in 1964 and that's why they had to burn the midnight oil to achieve their objectives. 