A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for intercropping bhang worth Sh100,000 on his muguka farm in Embu. Police recovered 240 stems of bhang, 250 grammes of harvested bhang, two rolls of bhang and other materials used in making rolls at Silas Wachira's farm. Embu county commissioner Eddyson Nyale has ordered a crackdown on muguka farms following the arrest. Nyale spoke during the operation in Kiamuringa, Mbeti South in Mbeere South. He said chiefs will be going round inspecting muguka farms to ensure all those who are practicing the vice are dealt with. Majority of the muguka farmers in Embu are found in Mbeere South and Mbeere North. This makes it the hub of the crop. Nyale said the fight against drugs and illicit brews will continue and he will ensure no stone is left unturned. “I have given an order to the chiefs and community policing members to launch a crackdown in muguka farms and alert the police on farms growing bhang,” he said. The commissioner who is also the county security head applauded members of the public who volunteered information that led to the arrest. He said residents should continue supporting the administration to achieve a crime-free community. "I wish to pass my gratitude to the residents who are committed to ensuring they have a peaceful community. I want to have a continued good relationship. Please share information about people involving themselves with such activities," Nyale said. The commissioner further said residents and the youth should engage in productive activities instead of involving themselves in illegal activities. He said the government has introduced several programmes that will benefit young people. "I urge the youth to engage in legal businesses and other agricultural activities. Bhang will destroy your health and harm your productivity," Nyale said. Embu police commander Daniel Lukunga said other criminals practicing such business will be found and arrested. He said Wachira will serve as an example to others who plan to engage in such activities. Lukunga said Wachira was an experienced dealer who had cultivated bhang to an extent of cultivating nurseries. "I warn those who intercrop bhang on their muguka farms that we will find you," he said. The suspect was taken to Gachoka police station pending arraignment. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)