The much-touted Mashemeji derby pitting AFC Leopards against arch-rivals Gor Mahia will be held at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on May 8. K'Ogalo will host Ingwe in the 94th edition of the country's most cherished football showpiece. The venue had earlier generated controversy with a section of local football enthusiasts faulting the idea of hosting the match at the newly - constructed Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu, claiming the town has gained infamy for politically instigated violence. Gor were banned from playing in Nairobi after crowd trouble marred their league encounter against Vihiga Bullets at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on February 13, where three fans suffered serious injuries. However, in an exclusive interview, Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier confirmed that they will be returning to the facility after a club meeting held on Wednesday afternoon resolved to shift the encounter from Kisumu to Nairobi following Leopards' security concerns. “We have arrived at a decision to stage the Mashemeji Derby at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on May 8 at 3 pm,” Rachier said. “Our opponents had lodged some complaints about having the match played in Kisumu and so we summoned a meeting to deliberate on the matter,” Rachier said. Earlier in the day, AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda —also speaking exclusively to the Star — added his voice to the ballooning concerns about the security of the Kisumu facility, saying hoodlums were likely to capitalise on the current volatile political situation in the country to cause chaos. Shikanda was, however, emphatic that the raging debate about the venue will not deter them from sharpening their talons ahead of the titanic battle. “We are currently concentrating all our efforts on preparations. Gor Mahia are our hosts and they have the right to decide the venue. We are ready to travel to Kisumu as long as we are guaranteed adequate security.” “We have, however, raised concerns with our opponents about the safety of the venue. We want to ensure the environment is conducive enough to host a match of such magnitude, given the rising political temperatures across the country.” “We have also roped in the FKF Caretaker Committee and we expect them to handle the matter satisfactorily.” FKF Caretaker Committee head of secretariat Linda Ogutu had assured both teams that there would be adequate security should they end up using Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium. Ogutu, however, hinted at the possibility of switching the derby to an alternative venue if adequate security is not guaranteed. “Gor Mahia are the hosts and, therefore, reserve the exclusive rights to identify a venue for the Mashemeji Derby. It's true we have received complaints from AFC Leopards who have raised concerns about the safety of the venue. Shikanda personally called me and the issue came up for mention. “The Caretaker Committee is looking into the issue and measures are being put in place to ensure the safety of both teams, their fans, and match officials during the derby. But if need be, we might as well opt to shift the derby to an alternative venue. Safety is of utmost concern.”