A 10-year-old girl from Malindi has launched an aggressive campaign against reckless littering of trash in the resort town with a view to promote a clean environment. Nesha Omar designed posters dubbed ‘Pick up your Trash’ ‘# I Love Malindi”. This is to spread the word to all residents to ensure they do not throw litter carelessly. Omar who is a pupil at Learning Hub school in Kijiwetanga has been an active member of the Malindi monthly clean-up campaign organised by Progress Welfare Association of Malindi. “I have a campaign which is called pick up your trash. If you want to join it, start cleaning around your area,” she said. In an interview during the launch of her campaign on Saturday, after the monthly clean-up exercise, she said she started being an environmentalist at the age of three years. She used to follow her mother around who is also an environmentalist. Omar said everybody is supposed to ensure the environment is clean and avoid littering the area. “A few days ago, I did a clean up and the following day I found the place still the same,” she said. Omar said she would make more posters and put the messages on social media so as to go viral and reach out to everyone. “We used to go for clean ups in our town and at the beach and as I grew older, I just started like feeling that I should do more of the environmental clean up and now that I am 10 years old, I plan to do more, I really care about the environment,” she said. Her mother, Charity Beduli who is also an environmentalist said she started the clean up exercise in 2015. During this period, she was being accompanied by her daughter Omar. Beduli said every time they went to dig the holes for planting the trees, her daughter would go with her. “So, I realised that she had the passion for the environment,” she said. Kate Mwikali the Chairperson of PWAM said Nesha started the campaign to reach out to children across the world to appeal to everyone to pick their trash. “We are happy as PWAM to see children coming in big numbers, it’s a personal exercise they have transferred it to neighborhoods and are forming committee like Nesha has own committee for cleaning their environment,” she said.