Kenya has set the stage for a fresh round of confrontation with world football governing body, Fifa, after  Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed gazetted an 18-member Transition Committee to run football in the country for five weeks. The decision comes barely two days after the CS received a draft FKF Constitution from the Caretaker Committee, whose mandate expired officially on Tuesday, ending a six-month trouble-plagued stint. Amina pledged swift action after receiving the report but reiterated the need to seek further guidance from President Uhuru Kenyatta before executing the next step. This is the second time Amina is rubbing Fifa the wrong way after her decision to disband the Nick Mwendwa-led Football Kenya Federation and replace it with a Caretaker Committee led to the country's suspension from international competitions. In a gazette notice issued on Friday, Amina said: “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 54 (1) of the Sports Act 2013, the Cabinet Secretary for Sports appoints the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee...” “The mandate of the Transition Committee will be to conduct the affairs of Football Kenya Federation in accordance with the Constitution of Football Kenya Federation.” “Ensure that Football Kenya Federation operates within the provisions of the Sports Act, 2013.” “Co-ordinate and ensure the smooth running of Football Kenya Federation operations, including team preparations for local and international sporting events; and “Co-ordinate and facilitate the validation of the draft Constitution of Football Kenya Federation. In the gazette notice, retired Judge Aaron Ringera will head a 12-member team, assisted by  Maurice Oyugi. Others are Ali Amour, Bobby Ogolla, former Harambee Starlets captain Neddy Atieno, Caesar Handa, Hassan Haji, Dr  J.J Masiga, Michael Muchemi, Racheal Kamweru, Mwangi Muthee and Anthony Isayi . Former KTN anchor Linda Ogutu has been appointed to head a six-member secretariat whose members include Edward Rombo, Robin Toskin, Rashid Shedu and Maxwell Wasike.