Mathare United honcho, Bob Munro, has said the club will bounce back stronger from the woes that have haunted them out of the country's topflight football. The Slum Boys 24-year run in the Kenyan Premier League screeched to an abrupt halt after they were sent packing last Saturday following a string of walkovers they dished out to rivals Bandari, Ulinzi Stars and Sofapaka. “This isn't the end of the road for Mathare United. But it is the beginning of a new challenge and journey toward becoming Mathare United again,” Munro said. Munro had earlier lashed out at the defunct Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Caretaker Committee for suspending and relegating Mathare United unjustifiably. “After featuring since 1999 in the Kenyan Premier League for 24 consecutive seasons, is it right andfair in fact and even in law for the FKF TC to suspend and relegate MUFC or any other clubs becauseits predecessor, the FKF CC in which you also served as the Head of Secretariat, repeatedly failed to pay its monthly grants to clubs in a responsible, reliable and timely manner?” Munro posed. In a letter penned on Tuesday to Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Transition Committee head of secretariat, Lindah Ogutu, Munro placed their woes at the feet of the defunct Caretaker Committee, saying it failed to disburse funds to clubs in appropriate time. Mathare United's struggles climaxed last Saturday after they were officially sent packing from the Kenyan Premier League by the Football Kenya Federation Transition Committee. In a letter signed by head of secretariat Lindah Ogutu and addressed to Mathare chairman Bob Munro, the Committee said it reached Saturday's decision after the Slum Boys dished out three walkovers in the topflight competition. "We have in our possession the match officials' reports on your matches...pitting yourselves against Bandari FC, Ulinzi Stars FC and Sofapaka FC and which were scheduled to be played...," the statement read. "It is evident therefore that the said matches were not played for the reasons attributed to your team which failed to honour the fixtures and the same were thus awarded to your opponents. "It is discernible from the foregoing that your team has to date failed to play three matches this season. "As provided for by... the rules and regulations governing Kenyan Football which states; 'any club in a league format that does not turn up for three fixtures in a season and their explanation... is not accepted in all the three incidences to the FKF National Leagues and Competitions Committee, shall be suspended for the rest of the season, shall be relegated to a lower tier for the next season and may face other disciplinary action.' "We therefore hereby right to you decreeing that having failed to play three matches in contravention of the above stated rule... Mathare United FC has been suspended from the FKF Premier League 2021/22 season and shall be relegated to the National Super League for the next season." Editing by Tony Mballa