DAP-K aspirants in Kakamega have threatened to walk out of Azimio if the coalition insists on zoning in Western region. They said on Monday that zoning would hurt small parties. The aspirants for the posts of senator, MP and MCA said the proposed approach favours ODM. Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga, who is vying for Kakamega woman representative position, said DAP-K aspirants agreed to back ODM leader Raila Odinga's bid for the presidency but did not agree on the zoning idea. “We have a lot of respect for our leaders in Azimio, especially Raila and Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, but when it comes to a point of being asked to step down in favour of others we shall not accept that because it’s not fair, and it’s unconstitutional,” she said. The hopefuls said DAP-K will field candidates for all elective positions except for the president and governor. This is after Ayub Savula stepped down in favour of ODM governor hopeful Fernandes Barasa. “DAP-K is a strong party that should not be weakened by the idea of zoning,” party county vice secretary Michel Khayisia said. Wafula Nabwera, NEC member in DAP-K, asked Raila and Oparanya to keep off DAP-K affairs, saying they will not allow the party to be run by outsiders. “If Raila wants us to vote for him as our fifth president, he should keep off DAP-K. If they compel our candidates to step down in the name of zoning, then they should expect the Western vote for his opponent in protest,” Nabwera said. East Kabras MCA Lazarus Lucheveleli said Raila’s advisers are misleading him as concerns zoning in Azimio. He said the idea is not viable and that if they are compelled to surrender their certificates in the name of zoning, then they will support Kenya Kwanza. Lugari MP aspirant Isaac Andabwa said ODM leaders are fighting DAP-K so the Orange party can remain dominant. “DAP-K is a clean baby and you should let it grow. This is the party that will bring the Mulembe nation to the negotiating table on important issues in this country. We shall not allow anybody to mess with it,” he said. DAP-K senator aspirant Patrick Buchichi said Azimio leaders should allow healthy competition among the coalition candidates. A few days ago, Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito criticised zoning in Azimio, saying ODM leaders were using the method to settle scores. He warned that the discontent being created would affect coalition’s presidential candidate Raila Odinga's chances of victory besides killing smaller parties supporting Azimio. Kizito said ODM bungled their nominations and now want to create confusion in other parties after realising they dished out direct tickets to weak candidates Edited by A.N