Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua has called for tolerance during campaign rallies. Karua has asked political opponents to exercise mutual respect irrespective of their divergent ideologies saying the August polls will come and go but Kenyans will still need each other. “No matter where you stand, we can disagree without insults and heckling. Because after August 9th, we will have to still live with one another,” Karua said in a tweet. She spoke as she embarked on day three of campaigns since her unveiling as Raila Odinga’s running mate last Sunday. On Thursday, the Narc Kenya leader took the Azimio campaigns to Chogoria and Chuka in Tharaka Nithi County. Karua called on leaders to desist from luring the youth with handouts to disrupt their opponents' rallies. “If you have money, instead of sending the youth, come in person and grab the microphone from me,” Karua said. She further urged the youth to refuse to be used by politicians for political expediency. "Those using you have their own children but they are not sending them on such childish assignments. "When Azimio ascends to power, it will straighten things and you will have your own money so no one will hire you," Karua said. On Tuesday, Karua was treated to a rousing welcome during her tour of Kirinyaga county. It was the first time she was visiting her home county after being unveiled as ODM leader Raila Odinga's running mate. On Wednesday, Karua pitched camp in Meru accompanied by Agriculture CS Peter Munya and several other elected leaders where they drummed up support for Raila. She said Raila’s decision to pick her as his running mate was proof that the former Prime Minister had the interests of Central Kenya at heart. Karua said they were out to deliver 90 per cent of votes from the vote-rich region for the Azimio presidential candidate. "With Munya and I, Mt Kenya interests are safeguarded in Azimio government,” she said. A section of political pundits has held that Karua’s pick as Raila’s deputy has a huge potential of attracting three pools of voters to the Azimio camp. These are the undecided voters, women voters and the integrity vote – those who will vote for Azimio on the basis of Karua’s unwavering stand against corruption and abuse of rule of law.