The last trumpet was the final military ritual announcing the burial of the third president of Kenya. The tune sent shivers through hundreds of villagers of Munyange in Othaya, Nyeri county who stood outside Mwai Kibaki’s home, awed by the military honours accorded to the former president. The military had taken over the burial of Kibaki who died on April 21, aged 90 years. The first trumpet was blown at around 4.30pm, a sad lonely tune from a military officer who wore a woven hat. Hearts sank as utter silence took over at the crowd that had been murmuring throughout the funeral service. The trumpet was followed by the national anthem, all three stanzas led by the ground formation of the military. The Kenya Navy then took over giving a 19-gun salute, less two, because he was a retired president. Many were waiting for this, most never having heard the sound of a gunshot only imagined how loud it would be. The onlookers, a little disappointed not to have seen the bullets fly into the sky, stared at the smoke that quickly vanished in the chilly air. Finally, the Kenya Air Force with three military colours choppers paid their respect noisily flying around the home. It was a spectacle, an elaborate rite that Kibaki has signed on for when he took office as president in 2002 and in 2007. But for a president who preferred simplicity, his body migh have turned uncomfortably in the grave. A few minutes after 5pm Mwai Kibaki were laid to rest by the Kenya Defence Forces officers at the solemn ceremony witnessed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. Several national leaders were present, among them Deputy President William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Nyeri Archbishop Anthony Muheria conducted the final Requiem Mass assisted by Bishop Peter Kihara of Marsabit and Bishop Emeritus Philip Sulumeti. Family and friends of President Kibaki delivered emotional tributes, extolling the former head of state’s exemplary life. Archbishop Muheria urged politicians to emulate Kibaki by embracing humility and forgiveness, saying the virtues are key in consolidating harmonious co-existence. "He (Kibaki) never insulted or disrespected his competitors. He quipped mostly, but respectfully. We need a special sanitiser to disinfect not our hands but our mouths,” Muheria said. "As we lay this great man to rest, we must bury the hatchet with him, our hatchets." He urged the leaders to learn to say sorry no matter how uncomfortable it makes them. However, as the great man was buried, his grandson's ring, a dark brown coffin, a well-pressed suit and other things went down with him, but not hatchets. Unlike his days in power, Kibaki was the main item in the local media, but this time, it would be the last. The gun carriage that has been moving his casket in the last few days as Kenyans paid him their last respects, had arrived at Kabarak on Tuesday, well polished for Kenya's third president's final journey. The casket, draped in the national flag, was removed from the vehicle as Kenyatta and the military honoured the former president. (Edited by Tabnacha O)