Kenyan Premier League Golden Boot contender Derrick Otanga admits he is under intense pressure to seal the coveted gong as the top-flight hits the penultimate stage this weekend. The KCB striker leads the chart with 14 goals, two better than his closest challenger Felix Oluoch of Kariobangi. However, Otanga's quest to stay on top of the game until the season concludes seems to be driving him to the edge. The bankers travel to Bungoma this weekend for a crunch tie against hosts Nzoia Sugar where Otanga will look to extend his advantage. “My closest opponent in the golden boot race has scored 12 goals and with two matches left to play this season, anything can happen,” Otanga said after a training session at Ruaraka Sports Club on Thursday. “I must score more goals to help my team win the remaining games and, individually, to win the golden boot.” And in stark contrast to the general feeling that the bankers have fallen way below expectations in their lackadaisical campaign this season, Otanga insists they are still on the right track and a top-four finish is still achievable. “I'm appealing to our fans to rally behind the team given the remaining fixtures are key to our success. We are seeking a top-four finish,” he said. “I am happy with the team as the boys are in high spirits ahead of this clash.” The 2020/2021 season runners-up have struggled to impress thus far with their wanting performance leaving them rooted in the middle of the table. They currently sit eighth on the log after amassing 43 points from 31 fixtures. On the other hand, Nzoia are 15th with 30 points after playing the same number of matches. KCB assistant coach, Godfrey Oduor, said their triumph over Nairobi City Stars in their last encounter last weekend had restored the team’s confidence. “The win against Nairobi City Stars has given the players the morale they badly needed to face another good side in the league,” Oduor said. “We respect all our opponents and despite Nzoia Sugar recently battling relegation, we still are aware of the threats they pose. We will take this match seriously.”