Ex-Kenyan international and Mathare United offensive midfielder, Titus Mulama, says the only way to salvage the Slum Boys from their current woes is by employing modern management techniques. Mulama who was part of the squad that clinched the Moi Golden Cup in 1998 to secure promotion to the country's top tier, said he was traumatized by the dwindling fortunes and unexpected downfall of one of Kenya's most successful community clubs. “It's sad to note we are yet to secure a sponsor or even a partner after two decades of excellence in the Kenyan Premier League and despite the fact that we've been supplying the national team, Harambee Stars, with quality players,” Mulama said. “For the team to prosper, we need to involve individuals who are versatile in modern football administration, people who can employ a modern approach of running football. Mulama advised Mathare United to consider changing management in search of fresh ideas. “It's also a high time we disengaged the club from individual control,” Mulama said. On April 30, another celebrated Mathare United alumnus, Ezekiel Akwana, said the only way to resuscitate the club from its deathbed is by formulating fresh financial policies. Akwana believes Mathare's woes emanate from deep-rooted financial challenges that can only be addressed through comprehensive reforms, including an overhaul of administrative structures. “I can tell you out of experience that the players were suffering. Most of the time they went to bed on an empty stomach. So, how would they have posted any meaningful results? Akwana asked. “I experienced the grave challenges during my tenure as head coach and it reached a point I felt I had had enough and made the decision to quit.” Akwana, who was also played a pivotal role in the club's historic feat in 1998, asked club honcho Bob Munro to hand over the club to a younger and vibrant leader, who still possesses the strength to steer it forward. Akwana made the remarks barely days after Munro made a shocking revelation that the club was too broke to honour league matches. Editing by Tony Mballa