Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua has called out Deputy President William for making empty promises to Kenyans. Speaking in Nakuru on Friday after a series of roadside campaign stops, Karua castigated the Kenya Kwanza brigade for being mum on corruption, an issue she said is Kenya's biggest problem. "You cannot say you will work for the people without first assuring them that you will protect their money. If you have no plans to tackle corruption then those are just empty promises," Karua said. "We want to ask our competitors, apart from empty promises, in which village can they show a development project they have achieved? she posed. The former Justice minister said under the Azimio administration, the corrupt and those who misuse public funds will be dealt with ruthlessly. "Only the government of Raila Odinga will be able to tackle corruption in Kenya. Our competitors cannot and will not do that," Karua stated. She applauded Raila saying he is a selfless leader who has sacrificed his life and ambition for the people of Kenya. Karua said the Azimio ticket presents the best leadership team for Kenya. She said should they form the next government after the August 9 polls, they will pick up from where President Uhuru Kenyatta will have left and build the economy. Her sentiments were echoed by Agriculture CS Peter Munya who said that the work of changing Kenya cannot be given to people with a history of plundering public funds. Munya said if such people are given the mandate to lead Kenya, they will continue plundering the economy. "The only people we can trust with Kenya are Martha Karua and Raila Odinga. These are true and tested Kenyans who can lead this country to prosperity," Munya said He added that he will be among the leaders who are set to transform Kenya when given the chance. "I have done a lot to transform the agriculture sector in the tea, coffee, milk and pyrethrum sectors. We will do more together with these two great leaders," Munya said. The former Gichugu MP started his rallies in Molo and made stops in Turi, Njoro, Kaptembwa and Nakuru city at Maasai market. Other than Munya, Karua was accompanied by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, Nyeri Governor Carol Karugu and Professor Ojienga.