A fourth suspect was Monday arrested in connection with the grisly murder of Kenya Institute of Mass Communication (KIMC) student Purity Wangechi. Isaac Kariuki Kibui, 22, was arrested at Thindigua Delish Nail bar in Kiambu and escorted to his house where a comprehensive search was conducted leading to the discovery of a blood-stained jacket, worn by the suspect on the night of the murder. Police said the jacket, shall be subjected to forensic analysis by experts based at the Biology unit of the DCI National Forensic Laboratory to establish whether the blood stains match with samples collected from the deceased, by their crime scene counterparts. Wangechi’s body which bore stab wounds and strangulation marks was discovered on Saturday morning by the roadside, close to the Mburiria estate in Kiambu. The arrest of Kibui brings the number of suspects in the painful murder to four. Investigations indicate that Wangechi, 19, met her painful death after she discovered that the man she had fallen in love with was a dangerous man and confronted him. Meanwhile, the boyfriend who is the mastermind of the murder John Wanyoike Kibungi alias VDJ Flexx, together with two other accomplices Kinaiya Kamau and Brendan Muchiri were arraigned at the Kiambu law courts Monday morning. The court granted detectives custodial orders to hold the suspects for 14 days, as they finalize their investigations. Wangechi’s body which bore visible stab wounds and strangulation marks was discovered Saturday morning by the roadside close to Mburiria estate, in Kiambu County. Wangechi had fallen in love with the killer and they had been in a relationship for some time before she discovered that he was a thug. She confronted him about it leading to a misunderstanding between the two. She however didn’t know that her lover was determined to cover his tracks by eliminating her. According to police, on Friday, Wangeci left the country’s premier media institution to meet him in Kirigiti, to try and rekindle the dying embers of their once blossoming love. She did not know that she was walking into a death trap. During the early morning raid, the officers also recovered a vegetable knife that was carefully concealed in his waistband and which was used in stabbing the innocent teenage student, whose only mistake was falling in love with a thug. The detectives also discovered the scene of the murder that was preserved for forensic examination by Crime scene personnel based at the DCI National Forensic Laboratory.