Video of Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala making controversial remarks on the qualifications of police in the country has gone viral. In the viral video, Malala is heard ostensibly belittling the police service saying their job should be a preserve of people who dropped out of school. The senator, who is eyeing the Kakamega Governor seat, said police work  does not need highly qualified personnel owing to the nature of their job. "Si kazi ya polisi nikushika tuu bundiki?" Malala said. Loosely translated to: "Is police work not about just holding a gun?". Malala was speaking in Kakamega on Tuesday during a Kenya Kwanza rally. He said those who have passed exams should be allowed to pursue education at universities and colleges adding those who dropped out of school should be recruited to the police service. "Provided they got two arms and legs, let them join the police service. A police service job only entails handling firearms, which doesn't need training. Let those who have passed their examinations go to universities as those who failed and dropped out join the police service," he said. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula accompanied by other leaders from Western Kenya were also present at the rally. Malala said a KCSE certificate should not be demanded from one seeking to join the police service. Kenyans and leaders have weighed on the remarks with others demanding an apology. Nyeri Town MP Ngujiri Wambugu reacted to the video by saying: "This really is a terrible attitude and reeks of nothing but contempt from Malala to the over 100,000 Kenyans serving as police officers. Politics is not worth this kind of utterance. He should apologize immediately," Wambugu said. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang also commented on the video and said: "Very Unfortunate remarks brother senator from Better to worse! This is a completely retrogressive approach to the problems facing this nation. Kindly apologise to our men and women in uniform."