Strathmore Gladiators face a herculean task against Ghana’s Exchequers in the Gold Cup Club Invitational hockey tournament at the Dashmesh Hockey Stadium, Nairobi, today. Meshack Senge-coached Strathmore lost 4-2 to the same opposition on Monday, owing to individual defensive mistakes. Gladiators matched the moneybags in all areas but got exposed at the back, to the disappointment of Senge. Exchequers are in imperious form, having won all their three matches thus far. The West Africans are using the tournament as a warm up ahead of their national championship starting this weekend. Strathmore, who are third in the four-team tournament, have managed three points same as second-placed Police and tail-enders USIU-A Mashujaa. Kenyan teams have all lost to Exchequers in the first leg and it remains to be seen if they will recover in the return fixtures starting today. The tournament, which started on Saturday, took a break on Tuesday and action resumes today. “The team is in transition and such experiences will help the players to grow,” said the decade-long serving tactician Senge. Richmond Attipo, the Exchequers gaffer, urged Kenyan teams to align themselves with the European style of play that is more technical and tactical. He said the physical Indian style doesn’t suit the modern-day game. “In Ghana, we have adopted the European model. Teams play with vigour! We have technically empowered players and we play a flowing game. Positional awareness is key and we always exploit the half-spaces,” he added. Mashujaa, the only team to lose by a respectable margin against Exchequers (2-0), entertain Kenya Police. Police’s displays have been lethargic and the lack of a clear structure makes the former national champions look like an ordinary team. The law enforcers have relied so much on their experience but with most players in the twilight of their careers, the Patrick Mugambi-coached side face a tough rebuilding task. Police will look to bounce back against Mashujaa after losing 1-0 in the previous tie via Samson Ratia’s brilliant goal.