Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia on Saturday said Moja Expressway, a subsidiary of China Road and Bridge Corporation, has so far registered some 11,000 vehicles. The CS, who IG Hillary Mutyambai accompanied on Saturday during the opening of the Nairobi Expressway for public use, further said about 7,000 motorists registered to use the Electronic Toll Collection and others opted for Manual Toll Collection. "Moja Expressway has been registering over 800 vehicles a day since publicizing the registration process recently," he said. Moja Expressway will operate the road for 27 years to recoup the money through toll fees. The corporation is responsible for designing, financing, and building the expressway and maintaining and operating it during the concession period. The Nairobi Expressway is expected to significantly decongest Mombasa Road and reduce travel time between Mlolongo and Westlands to an average of 15 minutes. The expressway, with 18.2km on the ground and 8.9km elevated, is a class A four-lane dual carriageway with a design speed of 80km per hour. Motorists have a choice to either make payment via Manual Toll Collection or Electronic Toll Collection methods. The MTC will work like a credit card which will be periodically topped up through electronic payments. All MTC users will be given a pass voucher at the entry point which will be submitted at the toll station before the exit point. To redeem or add toll points in form of shillings to the card, the users can go to the Nairobi Expressway website. The toll points will be deducted depending on the distance travelled and it can be used when driving different vehicles. Besides that, there is the Electronic Toll Collection service which will offer fast and easy transit through the expressway. The ETC service holds many benefits, including non-cash payment, saving time, less fuel consumption and discounts. Motorists who opt for the ETC services will have an On-Board Unit device, which is a communication device mounted on vehicles, installed. Motorists with the ETC will have a specific lane along the expressway. According to Moja company, motorists with OBU will not be required to stop at any toll stations. (Edited by Mercy Asamba)