That social media has become a powerful platform for information, dissemination, education and entertainment is no longer in doubt. It has been labelled as an addiction that millions cannot go a single day without. With the billions of users per day, many individuals and corporates have leveraged on social media to not only socialise with other people but to boost their brands and create ingenious ideas. Conveniently, social media has enhanced information flow such that knowledge that was previously a hard-find can be easily accessed. One of the industries that has benefitted a lot from social media use is the motoring industry. Car owners no longer need to put themselves at the mercy of unscrupulous mechanics or autodealers who may mislead them with wrong advice. Inside social media are groups consisting of car owners and experts who specialise in a specific model of a car. Joining such groups exposes you to a treasure trove of information on how you can get the best of your automobile or handle any mechanical issues that may occur. When in a fix, you can post your query on these groups — be it on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or LinkedIn — and you will receive tens or even hundreds of responses on how you can go about solving it. These groups are also virtual gatherings to discuss the issues affecting the automobile or the transport industry at large. Forums, such as Twitter Spaces or Facebook Live, provide you with the chance to network with other like-minded people as far as driving is concerned. You can make your voice heard on issues affecting you as a car owner and possibly, contribute to policymaking on the same. For example, Twitter spaces provide a perfect platform to express views on the ban on secondhand trucks in the country. On YouTube, you can find tutorials on anything concerned with car maintenance. A lot of Do-it-Yourself (DIY) videos will enlighten you on how to undertake simple repairs instead of taking them to the mechanic. There are also helpful videos that feature reviews on the latest car models to enable you make an informed decision on which brand to purchase. A common headache afflicting many car owners is where to find a reliable and honest car dealer or spare parts. Thankfully, these are some of the questions answered in many of these social media groups. In as much as social media has changed the automobile landscape, it is still advisable to conduct a thorough background research before choosing to do business with anyone you meet on social media. Considering the unregulated nature of the Internet, too much reliance on social media as a basis for decision-making may expose you to fraudsters on the network.