Azimio la Umoja One Kenya Nairobi governor aspirant Polycarp Igathe says his manifesto will be people-based. Igathe disclosed on Tuesday that the manifesto will be basic and purely based on service delivery for the people. “It all boils down to basic service delivery for the people. This is something that comes out clearly in our manifesto that we will be launching very soon, a manifesto for the people,” he said. Igathe and his running mate Phillip Kaloki have been engaging with Nairobi residents at a personal level in an attempt to understand what they expect from the next county government leadership. The two are expected to launch their manifesto in the next few days. The duo visited Kiamaiko slaughterhouse in Mathare sub-county where they identified proper lighting, access to clean water, the poor state of roads and blocked drainage as some of the challenges they will prioritise to fix if elected. “We will leverage on the diversities of the cosmopolitan County of Nairobi to build on current development while initiating new projects towards enhancing the county’s success as a regional business hub,” Kaloki said. The former Kibwezi MP added that they will also focus on creating a conducive environment for the small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) by putting in place proper infrastructural developments for traders to operate in a dignified environment. Using a one-on-one campaign strategy, the duo has been moving from ward to ward wooing voters. While defending this strategy, Igathe said their mantra is about servant leadership which is working for the people. “We are not interested in politicking but in working as a team as we go to the ground to see the state of Nairobi and to ask the people 'mwataka nini?" Igathe said. Igathe said he will further the development projects initiated by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) if elected as Nairobi’s fourth governor. He said he understands the problems bedeviling the city based on what he experienced during his short stint as a deputy governor under the Mike Sonko administration. “Nobody knows the problem of Nairobi as close as I do. Time has vindicated what I saw." Igathe revealed that he was the brains behind the formation of the NMS which was brought by President Uhuru Kenyatta to fix Nairobi in 2020. "The information I provided to my party leader to fix the situation then is what gave birth to NMS. I didn’t have to do it in public because the best work in life is done in silence, not with a lot of noise,” Igathe said.