The crunch reverse fixture pitting leaders Kakamega Homeboyz against AFC Leopards at Bukhungu Stadium headlines the penultimate stage of the Kenyan Premier League this weekend. The thriller is bound to produce fireworks, given both sides have something major at stake. Whereas Homeboyz are eyeing their dream maiden title, Leopards have their sights on a possible top-five finish. Leopards head into the match high on confidence, buoyed by their crucial 3-2 win over debutants Talanta at Nyayo Stadium last Sunday. On the other hand, Homeboyz will look to reclaim their foothold at the summit of the log after surrendering their lead to Tusker following a one-all draw against Gor Mahia in their last assignment at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Both Tusker and Homeboyz are level on 57 points but the brewers enjoy a healthier goal difference. Equally thirsty for a win are Bandari, who make a trip to Kericho to lock horns with hosts Ulinzi Stars at the Green Stadium on Saturday. The dockers stand a mathematical chance of winning their first major silverware since 2019 when they clinched the FKF Shield Cup. The coastal lads have experienced a boon in their fortunes under ex-Kenyan international, Anthony ‘Modo’ Kimani — who took the reigns from Rwandan tactician Cassa Mbungo in February. They enjoy a comfortable third place in the standings with 53 points. A win could take the title race to the wire especially if the frontrunners flounder. Ulinzi have experienced a lackadaisical run this season leaving them rooted in an unimpressive 13th place with 33 points. Vihiga Bullets will look to salvage themselves from the jaws of imminent relegation when they visit 2009 champions, Sofapaka, at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. The newbies dangle precariously at the bottom of the table with a paltry 21 points, albeit, with a match in hand. Sofapaka, on the other hand, are 11th with 40 points. Debutants Police flex muscles with Posta Rangers on Saturday while Nairobi City Stars host record champions Gor Mahia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in one of the matches scheduled for Sunday. Both teams are already out of the title contention and can only hope for a top-four finish. Whereas K'Ogalo are fourth with 48 points, their opponents are a place and point adrift. KCB make a trip to Bungoma on Sunday for their crunch tie against Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium. Talanta face Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Sunday in a match preceding a clash between Wazito and Bidco United.