Kirinyaga leaders and politicians allied to Jubilee have chided Kenya Kwanza's presidential running mate Rigathi Gachagua for what they called trivialising the needs of the Mt Kenya region. Last week, Gachagua urged Deputy President William Ruto to reintroduce former President Daniel Moi’s gesture of hosting locals for a banquet whenever he visits the region, if he is elected head of state. His remarks did not augur well with Kirinyaga leaders, who have urged residents to assess the leadership capabilities of Gachagua and Azimio la Umoja presidential running mate Martha Karua. Speaking on Friday in Gichugu, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said it is shocking for Gachagua to have such "petty reasoning" while he is aware of the region's demands. “While others are busy negotiating for the well-being of their regions, he is busy pushing for a mere plate of sumptuous rice for our people. Are these the kind of leaders we need?” he posed. “Now that both political divides have named running mates who hail from the region, let us be informed on who is the best by interrogating their past reputation and interest for the region." Kibicho said Karua will make a good deputy president as she is disciplined in the handling of public resources, and she will lead regional leaders in negotiating for a fair share of the national cake. County Jubilee party chairman Muriithi Kang’ara called out Kenya Kwanza battalion for alleging that Karua did not have a heroic homecoming at the beginning of last week. “Residents are in full support of her appointment and we are praying that she clinches the position of the deputy president,” he said. Kang’ara urged Kenyans, particularly women, to back one of their own by overwhelmingly voting for the Azimio la Umoja brigade. Former Gichugu MP Njogu Barua, who is vying for the MP’s seat under the Jubilee party ticket, said the rise of Karua is an added advantage for Gichugu and Kirinyaga residents. He said Karua is up to the task and will contribute immensely to the development of Kenya. “It will be a pleasure to serve her as her MP. This will give us an advantage in the Azimio government as our needs will also be prioritised,” Barua said.