Women in Murang’a want Azimio presidential candidate Raila Odinga to pick Woman Representative Sabina Chege as his running mate. The women said Chege has demonstrated her leadership capabilities in the two terms that she has served as MP. In her first term, Chege served as the chairperson of the education committee in the National Assembly, while in her second she was elected the chairperson of the health committee. Lilian Ruguru praised the President for believing in Chege enough to appoint her as a member of the Azimio la Umoja-One Kenya Coalition council. Ruguru said Chege has implemented programmes in the county that have changed the lives of residents. She cited the sponsorship programme that has benefitted hundreds of secondary school students through the Sabina Wanjiru Chege Foundation. Chege has also sponsored thousands of unemployed youths to undertake short technical courses at Michuki Technical Training Institute. The youths are then provided with the equipment needed to start small businesses. “She is charismatic and courageous, and has reached heights many of her counterparts who have served the same amount of time have not,” Ruguru said. Alice Mwaura said Chege is empathetic and approachable to many in need of assistance. She said these attributes would help the Azimio la Umoja team gain the support of more Kenyans and acquire more votes. Mwaura also termed her a loyal leader who makes firm decisions and sticks with them. “Her record shows she is best-suited to deputise Raila and would give him the support he requires,” she said. Wambui Kibiri, a fruit vendor in Murang'a town, said Chege is not temperamental and that her level-headedness would come in handy in helping to run the government. She said it is time women are included in the country’s top position and Chege is the most qualified among the women who have been fronted for the position. Halima Mugo said Chege has been actively involved in Azimio campaigns across the country and has an image that can be embraced in all parts of the country. “She has shown her ability to work with Raila and pull crowds. She is the best for the position,” Mugo added. 