A fourth suspect was Monday arrested in connection with the grisly murder of Kenya Institute of Mass Communication student Purity Wangechi. Isaac Kariuki Kibui, 22, was arrested at Thindigua Delish Nail bar in Kiambu and escorted to his house where a blood-stained jacket worn by the suspect on the night of the murder was found. Police said the jacket shall be subjected to forensic analysis by experts at the DCI National Forensic Laboratory to establish whether the blood stains match with samples collected from the deceased. Wangechi’s body, which bore stab wounds and strangulation marks, was discovered on Saturday morning on the roadside, close to Mburiria estate in Kiambu. The arrest of Kibui brings the number of suspects in the painful murder to four. Investigations indicate that Wangechi, 19, was killed after she discovered the man she had fallen in love with was dangerous and she confronted him. Meanwhile, the boyfriend John Wanyoike alias VDJ Flexx, who is the alleged mastermind of the murder, together with two other accomplices Kinaiya Kamau and Brendan Muchiri, were arraigned at the Kiambu law courts on Monday morning. The court granted detectives custodial orders to hold the suspects for 14 days, as they finalise their investigations. This will enable them conduct a postmortem exercise on the body. Wangechi had fallen in love with the suspected killer and they had been in a relationship for sometime before she discovered he was a thug. She confronted him about it leading to a misunderstanding between the two. She however didn’t know that her lover was determined to cover his tracks by eliminating her. According to police, on May 13, Wangeci left college to meet him in Kirigiti to try and rekindle the dying embers of their once blossoming love. She did not know that she was walking into a death trap. During the early morning raid, the officers also recovered a kitchen knife that was carefully concealed in his waistband and was used in stabbing the teenage student. (Edited by Tabnacha O)