Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki has urged Kenyans to stop interfering with their opponents in political rallies by causing chaos and heckling them. Kindiki has termed the heckling of opponents as archaic conduct that undermines the democracy of the country. "Heckling or obstructing opponents' meetings is undemocratic & archaic," Kindiki said. In reference to heckling incidents that allegedly marred the Azimio rally in Mt Kenya, Kindiki said is unnecessary for people to shout them down. He urged Kenyans to allow Azimio to sell its manifesto across the country without any hindrance saying, after all, they will not manage to change the tide. "Let those Azimio bands make their pitch freely anywhere in the Country. It will not change much, not even their newly named Running Mate will withstand the UDA/Kenya Kwanza tide. It is too late, the die is cast," he said. Incidents of heckling have marred political rallies in the country with allegations of people being hired to disrupt opponents' rallies emerging. On Friday, Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho called on the police to crack the whip on hecklers. He said intelligence gathering had attributed to the hired groups the recent attempts to disrupt rallies in Kirinyaga County. “Kirinyaga is a peaceful county and our people are civilized and hospitable. We cannot allow a handful of hooligans to cause chaos here and taint the good reputation of our county,” he said. Kibicho blamed the incidences reported in the county on two area leaders who have reportedly enlisted youth to cause chaos in campaign meetings organized by rival contestants. The PS urged residents to exercise political tolerance by granting audiences to competing candidates and making informed choices in the August 9 polls. “Insults and sponsoring chaos are retrogressive and primitive practices, and Kirinyaga is beyond that. We must oppose leaders corrupting the minds of our young people using cheap liquor and bhang as a means to political glory.” He was reacting to recent events where some politicians' rallies were disrupted by suspected hired goons, especially in parts of Central Kenya. He spoke in Kirinyaga when he officially opened seven new administrative units recently gazetted.